02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in advance of the summit between President Trump and Chairman Kim, scheduled to take place in Hanoi, Vietnam on February 27 and 28: “In the eight months since the first Summit between President Trump and Chairman Kim, the president professed he and Chairman Kim ‘fell in love’ and declared North Korea is ‘no longer a nuclear threat.’ I believe the first claim; I do not believe the second. “In the January worldwide threat assessment, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence assessed North Korea is unlikely to give up its nuclear weapons. Where the first Summit lacked an agreed upon definition of complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, I hope the president uses this second Summit to address this massive obstacle. “I was, and remain, critical of the president’s decision to unilaterally cancel planned military exercises between the United States and South Korean armed forces, and further calling them ‘provocative.’ I hope the president recognizes the importance of exercises with allies to enhance readiness and strengthen deterrence. These exercises serve as a symbol to both adversaries and allies worldwide. “Diplomacy remains the only viable means of reducing the North Korean nuclear threat to the United States and our allies. The second summit between President Trump and Chairman Kim is an opportunity for the United States to secure specific, verifiable commitments from North Korea to decrease their nuclear program and increase transparency. “It is my hope that the Hanoi Summit results in a clear, sequenced process that freezes and reduces the North Korean nuclear program in return for proportional concessions and establishes a clear diplomatic process for further negotiations.”
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement following the president’s declaration of a national emergency: “President Trump declared a national emergency at the southern border but failed to acknowledge the funds for a wall would come at a high cost to the military. “The president is talking about removing funds that support military housing for the women and men in uniform as well as improvements to roads and hospitals on military bases and putting those funds towards building a wall in places that are unnecessary and impractical. “Congress has a Constitutional obligation to serve as a check on the president. I support a resolution to terminate the president’s national emergency declaration and to reverse the president’s unconstitutional action and will continue to challenge the president’s abuse of authority.” ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Don Young (AK-At Large) and Rodney Davis (IL-13) have introduced the Innovative Materials for America’s Growth and Infrastructure Newly Expanded (IMAGINE) Act to help develop cutting-edge materials that could vastly improve infrastructure nationwide. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) has introduced the Senate version of the bill. “New materials and building techniques can help make our infrastructure second to none. Rhode Island companies are already helping to lead the way in this field, and I’m excited to give them even more tools to get ahead,” said Cicilline. “It’s critical that we move forward on this bill so we can better take on the challenge of rebuilding our bridges, roads, and public transit systems.” “Addressing our crumbling infrastructure is long overdue,” said Davis. “Congress should encourage more innovation as we invest in rebuilding our infrastructure and that’s exactly what the IMAGINE Act does. Finding new, more resilient materials will help tax dollars go further and our infrastructure catch up to 21st century transportation needs.” “The IMAGINE Act will help to identify innovative technology and advanced materials to address the nation’s growing infrastructure needs,” said Larsen. “Washington state alone needs over $190 billion in infrastructure investments and I am proud to join my colleagues on bipartisan legislation to explore ways to improve safety, promote resiliency and support jobs and local economies.” “Stronger and more resilient building materials are needed to help our roads and bridges withstand the heavy use and harsh environments that they are subjected to, especially in my home state,” said Young. “This bill will help ensure that we are using the strongest and most effective techniques and materials as we rebuild our infrastructure.” The IMAGINE Act takes several steps to incentivize the use of innovative infrastructure materials – the bill creates a task force to examine the approval process for infrastructure materials, it promotes research and development of new materials; and it enhances federal investment in infrastructure projects that utilize innovative materials. In addition, the bill encourages the development of high-performance asphalt mixtures and concrete formulations, geo-synthetic materials, advanced insulating materials, advanced alloys and metals, reinforced polymer composites and advanced polymers, nanocellulose and wood-based composites, coatings, highly functional adhesives, and other corrosion prevention methods used in conjunction with those materials, and any other material or aggregate materials as determined by the relevant agencies. One provision calls on the Transportation Secretary to form innovative material hubs throughout the country to continue to drive research into and development of innovative materials for use in infrastructure projects. The provision was inspired by the success of communities of materials manufacturers – like advanced composites makers in Rhode Island and the Institute for Advanced Composites Manufacturing Innovation in Knoxville, Tennessee – that have leveraged their innovations and expertise to grow their industry. ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today issued the below statement ahead of voting in support of the bipartisan, bicameral agreement to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year: “The 35-day partial government shutdown put 800,000 American workers, including more than 10,000 Washingtonians, and their families in a tough spot of choosing between their job and putting food on the table,” said Larsen. “I am hopeful the president will sign the funding agreement to keep Americans working without a fear of missing another paycheck.” The bipartisan, bicameral agreement provides funding for smart, effective border security, including $1.375 billion for new fencing, and addresses many of the administration’s claims about the security of the southern border. The administration claims there is a humanitarian crisis on the southern border. The funding agreement would help create a more humane immigration system by increasing the total number of participants in the Alternatives to Detention program and providing additional funding for enhanced medical support, transportation, food and clothing for those in detention, particularly children and families. The administration claims a wall will stop drugs from coming into the U.S., but the Drug Enforcement Agency found that drugs smuggled across the border by Mexican cartels mostly come through legal ports of entry, hidden inside of passenger vehicles or tractor-trailers. The funding bill will allow for new border security technology, equipment at ports of entry, opioid detection equipment and 600 new Customs officers. “The funding bill is a good border security compromise and will keep federal employees at work and ensure they continue to receive a paycheck. I look forward to working on a broader comprehensive immigration reform package and addressing other important immigration issues such as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and ending the detentions and deportations of refugees from Vietnam,” said Larsen. ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today introduced legislation to help high school students access in-demand jobs related to growing Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) industries by creating a pathway through community college and into an in-demand apprenticeship. “U.S. students are no longer competing with their neighbors, but with students from around the world. Connecting young people with the skills needed to compete in the global workforce is a win-win-win for job seekers, the manufacturing sector and the U.S. economy,” said Larsen. Washington state’s Career Connect Task Force connects young Washingtonians with the skills they need to pursue in-demand, growing STEM industry jobs. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act builds on this momentum by creating a six-year pathway for high school students training in STEM skills through community college and into a registered apprenticeship, preparing them for good-paying jobs in state-identified high-skill, high-wage or in-demand industries. “Congress must tell young people we will invest in them through more skills training, high-quality K-12 education, access to STEM education and affordable higher education,” said Larsen. The bill directs the Secretary of Education to award ten grants to support partnerships among local educational agencies, industry, community colleges and state apprenticeship or labor-management training programs. Washington state continues to be a leader in STEM with more than 313,000 high school students and 165,000 two-year college students enrolled in Career and Technical Education programs. The bill emphasizes the importance of STEM and STEM-focused Career and Technical Education programs that keep students engaged throughout their learning process and provide students with scientific and practical skills. Original cosponsors of the Youth Access to American Jobs Act include Reps. Tonko (NY-20), Norton (DC-at-large), Grijalva (AZ-03), McNerney (CA-09), Kuster (NH-02), Maloney (NY-18), Heck (WA-10), DeSaulnier (CA-11), Kind (WI-03), Jayapal (WA-07), DelBene (WA-01), Kilmer (WA-06) and Velázquez (NY-07). Larsen first introduced the bill in the 2015 and has consistently been a proponent of STEM education. The bill is endorsed by SkillsUSA and the Washington State Association of Career and Technical Education. Full text of the bill is available here. ###
02.13.2019	You can view Rep. Larsen’s remarks here. Good morning and thank you to today’s witnesses for joining the first Aviation Subcommittee hearing of the 116th Congress. Nineteen days ago, the partial government shutdown ended, but left significant consequences to the U.S. aviation workforce, industry and economy in its wake. But, we have a forward-looking aviation and aerospace agenda for this Congress. In fact, it was my intention for the first hearing of this Subcommittee to begin exploring that agenda that included: ensuring aviation safety, fostering innovation in U.S. airspace, improving U.S. competitiveness in the global marketplace; and enhancing the air travel experience for passengers. This agenda is still my agenda, and this Subcommittee will continue to pursue it. However, the recent shutdown shed new light on its impacts on the aviation industry and workforce. But the roots of this hearing go back at least to the 2013 and that shutdown under a Democratic Administration when FAA employees were furloughed, and air traffic controllers worked without pay. Even then, we were trying to find a way to shield this most critical part of the government from future shutdowns. The purpose of this hearing, then, is two-fold. First, I want to ensure this Subcommittee creates the public record of shutdown impacts on the aviation and aerospace industry. The panel assembled here today is in the best position to explain these impacts. I would note that the shutdown has delayed this Subcommittee’s work. FAA furloughs have delayed implementation of last year’s FAA authorization, which in turn delays the oversight mission of this Subcommittee. The shutdown has also delayed planning for this Subcommittee’s trip to the FAA Technical Center to observe their critical research to improve the safety of the National Airspace. The second purpose of this hearing is to build the case for H.R. 1108, the Aviation Funding Stability Act of 2019. I want to ensure that the FAA has the resources and funding stability needed to preserve the safety of the Nation’s aviation system. Throughout this most recent shutdown, I met with the dedicated women and men of the aviation workforce and did hear about the harmful impacts the shutdown had on their lives. One constituent from Bellingham, Washington shared with me that her brother, an air traffic controller, worked more than 60 hours a week, without pay, during the shutdown. Her brother faced severe mental and physical stress wondering when his next paycheck would come. Aerospace companies in Northwest Washington state let me know they feared they would need to suspend production. Local aviation safety personnel showed me their pay stubs for $0. And another air traffic controller with whom I met had to dip into her children’s college savings to get by. During the shutdown, thousands of air traffic controllers, engineers, technicians and critical safety personnel were working without pay. U.S. aviation is the gold standard of flight because of these skilled individuals. Their work ensures the safety of the traveling public and efficiency of the U.S. airspace. As I noted, the FAA was unable to begin implementation of Congressional mandates in the FAA Reauthorization, such as requiring ten hours of rest for flight attendants, further integrating new users into the airspace and setting up rules to address sexual harassment of employees, passengers and crew. Furloughed FAA inspectors were unable to approve new aircraft, aviation products and infrastructure, hindering U.S. global competitiveness. The FAA’s work on streamlining the certification process for aviation and aerospace products, came to a halt. No new Airport Improvement Program grants could be issued, hurting projects to modernize and maintain airports. As the full Committee heard last week, federal aviation infrastructure investment falls short already of growing needs. Washington state alone needs over $190 billion in infrastructure investments, with aviation projects requiring $12.6 billion. Congress must do what it can to ensure the FAA, its employees and the U.S. aviation economy are protected from another government shutdown. So to this end, Committee Chair DeFazio and I introduced legislation that authorizes the FAA to continue to draw from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund (AATF) during a funding lapse and operate at current levels with no Congressional action required. The partial government shutdown unnecessarily hurt American families and jeopardized the safety of the largest, busiest and most complex airspace system in the world. To use a metaphor, the lights must stay on at runways across the United States. I appreciate the witnesses for taking the time to join today’s discussion and for your work during the shutdown. I look forward to hearing more about the impacts on your members, and how Congress can support you in the future. It is my hope that with this hearing, this Subcommittee will have made its case that the shutdown impacts are harmful to the economy and that the Aviation Funding Stability Act is the mechanism to shield the FAA and the aviation and aerospace economy from detrimental impacts of future shutdowns. And I look forward to getting this Subcommittee back to its forward-looking agenda of ensuring aviation safety, fostering innovation in U.S. airspace, improving U.S. competitiveness in the global marketplace, and enhancing the air travel experience for passengers. ###
02.12.2019	Washington, DC- Today, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and Chair of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) shared comments in remembrance of the fatal Colgan Air crash that took 50 lives. On February 12, 2009, Continental flight 3407, operated by Colgan Air, was scheduled for flight from Newark, New Jersey, to Buffalo, New York. Tragically, the flight never made its arrival. At approximately 10:17 PM the plane crashed into a home in Clarence Center, New York, killing all 49 passengers and crew on board, as well as one person on the ground. A National Transportation Safety Board report on the accident concluded that the probable cause of the accident was the Captain’s response to the stall warning, with several contributing factors, including flight crew’s failures to monitor airspeed and adhere to sterile cockpit procedures. With the help of the Colgan families, Congress responded to this tragic accident with landmark safety legislation for the aviation community, The Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010. “The family members of those lost in the Colgan flight 3407 crash have been on Capitol Hill many times over the last ten years, turning their unimaginable tragedy into a mission to protect the safety of the flying public. We are grateful to them for their advocacy, and for their hard-work to make sure our aviation system is the safest in the world. Safety must remain our top priority, and our Committee will continue to address new safety concerns and provide strong oversight of the FAA to guarantee our safety mandates have been fulfilled,” said DeFazio. “Safety must be Congress’ number one priority when it comes to U.S. aviation. In the ten years since Colgan Flight 3407 crashed near Buffalo, New York and tragically claimed 50 lives, Congress has significantly improved safety measures for airlines. Congress must never forget the tragic lessons learned from the loss of Colgan Flight 3407,” said Larsen. ###
02.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Chairman of the House Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) introduced legislation that would protect Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) programs and personnel, and the U.S. aviation industry as a whole, from future shutdowns of the Federal Government. “The United States aviation system is the safest, busiest, most complex aviation system in the world—a system that was seriously jeopardized by the absurd 35-day government shutdown. Thousands of FAA safety personnel responsible for providing critical oversight of the U.S. aviation industry were furloughed. Our 14,000 air traffic controllers, and thousands of aviation safety and security professionals worked without pay. The effects of this most recent shutdown will be felt for years to come. This must not happen again. Our legislation ensures that in any future government shutdowns, all FAA programs will function uninterrupted and that all FAA employees can remain at work and paid. The users of the National Airspace System pay for the system and deserve for it to function without interruption. I thank the many stakeholder groups for their support of this critical legislation and look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill forward,” said DeFazio. “U.S. aviation is the gold standard of flight because of our skilled workforce, including the dedicated air traffic controllers and essential safety personnel who work at the FAA. Their work keeps the aviation system running efficiently and ensures passengers can safely reach their final destinations without incident,” said Larsen. “Allowing the FAA to draw from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund during a funding lapse will ensure essential personnel who work under immensely stressful situations continue to get paid, and that the largest, busiest and most complex airspace system in the world remains safe for passengers and employees,” said Larsen. The legislation will do two things: Authorize the FAA to continue to draw from its Airport and Airway Trust Fund (AATF) during a lapse, with no General Fund contributions. The AATF generates enough revenue from the domestic passenger ticket tax, commercial fuel tax, general aviation gasoline tax, and cargo tax, among other sources, to sustain all of the agency's programs without a General Fund contribution. Allow the entire agency to operate at current funding levels, with no Congressional action required. This ensures that all FAA programs function uninterrupted and that all FAA employees are paid for their important work. This legislation has the support of aviation industry stakeholders, including: Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) Airlines for America (A4A) Airports Council International-North America (ACI-NA) American Association of Airport Executives (AAAE) Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA) Delta Air Lines General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA) Helicopter Association International (HAI) International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) National Business Aviation Association (NBAA) Professional Aviation Safety Specialists, AFL-CIO (PASS) Regional Airline Association (RAA) Transport Workers Union of America (TWU) To read a fact sheet about the legislation, click here. To read the bill text, click here. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement in advance of President Trump’s State of the Union address: “I hope the president uses tonight’s State of the Union as an opportunity to focus on supporting and sustaining an agenda For the People. “I hope the president talks about the need for increased infrastructure investments and advanced technology at ports of entry, new technology to detect unauthorized crossings and more immigration judges and customs personnel, not the need for a wall on the Southern border. “I hope the president outlines a trade agenda that supports local jobs and the economic stability of the U.S. Unfortunately, this administration’s tariff policy threatens local jobs and the economic stability of Washington state, the most trade dependent state in the country. While I support the president’s position to update some trade agreements especially in the areas of digital trade, IP, and environmental and labor provisions, I do not agree with the president’s approach to apply tariffs indiscriminately. We have already seen the consequences of retaliation which threatens local jobs and the economic stability of businesses across the U.S. “I hope the president outlines a well-thought out infrastructure plan, maintaining federal investment in infrastructure projects to sustain and build on the state’s economic growth and put more folks to work. The president’s reliance on private funding for infrastructure prioritizes investments that make the most money for the fewest people, instead of those that best serve the economy. “I hope the president addresses the need to invest in the future generation of workers. U.S. students are no longer competing with their neighbors, but with students from around the world. Congress and the president must tell young people we will invest in them through more skills training, high-quality K-12 education, access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics education and affordable higher education. “I hope the president addresses the national opioid crisis. About 600 people die each year in Washington state due to opioid overdose, and nearly 20 percent of all heroin-related deaths in Washington have occurred in Snohomish County. I hope the president outlines a plan to focus funding on behavioral health workforce training, prevention, treatment, surveillance, research and support for children and family programs. “I hope the president focuses on restoring accountability in government. Democrats began the 116th Congress with the promise to clean up corruption and ensure public officials work for the people. H.R. 1, the For the People Act, outlines reforms to make voting easier, end dark money in campaigns and ensure integrity of public officials. “I hope the president shows his support for these efforts for a more unified country,” said Larsen. ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, introduced legislation today to support disabled veterans who want to start families but are unable due to a 1992 law banning the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) from funding in vitro fertilization (IVF) services. Senator Murray today introduced the companion bill in the Senate. “America’s women and men in uniform sacrifice greatly. If injured in the line of duty, they should not have to sacrifice their dreams of having a family,” said Larsen. “A cycle of IVF treatment, the most effective assisted reproductive technology available today, can cost $12,000 or more. Congress should take the long-overdue step of permanently overturning the IVF prohibition to help these veterans start a family.” The Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act would also expand the fertility options available to servicemembers through the Department of Defense (DoD), give access to fertility treatment for spouses, allow VA to provide adoption assistance and make VA’s highly successful child care pilot program permanent. Larsen has been a leading voice in Congress in the fight to expand reproductive care for veterans and has previously worked with Senator Murray and others to temporarily lift the ban through annual appropriations. ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) sat down with Brookings Senior Fellow David Dollar for an episode of Dollar & Sense, the Brookings Trade Podcast to discuss a wide variety of trade issues including the U.S.-China trade relationship, Japan and the renegotiated NAFTA agreement. Rep. Larsen is the Co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group and is the Co-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition Trade Task Force. You can listen to the full episode here. ###
02.01.2019	Washington, DC – Today, the New Democrat Coalition announced eight policy task forces in the 116th Congress. The task forces will be led by New Dem issue area experts, Committee Members, and freshman Members in order to develop policies to help Americans get ahead in a changing economy and make America more secure. The new and expanded task forces are charged with meeting with stakeholders and developing policy positions for the Coalition to advance in both the near term and long term. The task forces will target areas where the Coalition can advance policies that help our economy and this Congress get on track. “We’re excited about the diverse perspectives and impressive ideas that all of our members will bring to the table,” New Democrat Coalition Chair Derek Kilmer said. “At a time when Congress hasn’t historically been a legislative juggernaut, it’s more important than ever that we target some areas where we can move the ball forward and advance some policies that help our economy.” “The New Democrats are about finding innovative solutions to complicated issues,” said New Democrat Coalition Vice Chair for Policy Suzan DelBene. “The American people have said they want Congress to get things done. With this talented group, we’re committed to finding the best ideas to expand our middle class and create opportunities for hardworking families in this new economy.” The New Democrat Coalition Task Forces are: The Climate Change Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Don Beyer, Sean Casten, Susan Wild, and Elaine Luria The Future of Work Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Bill Foster, Chris Pappas, Haley Stevens, and Lisa Blunt Rochester The Healthcare Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Angie Craig, Kurt Schrader, Kim Schrier, and Greg Stanton The Housing Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Denny Heck, Katie Hill, and Ben McAdams The Infrastructure Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Stacey Plaskett, Jason Crow, Elissa Slotkin, and Salud Carbajal The National Security Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Anthony Brown, Brendan Boyle, Brad Schneider, and Abigail Spanberger The Technology Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Sharice Davids, Kendra Horn, Harley Rouda, and Darren Soto The Trade Task Force Co-Chairs: Reps. Ron Kind, Rick Larsen, Greg Meeks, and Lizzie Fletcher Read more in Roll Call and Politico. ###
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee (HASC), sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan calling on DoD to work with South Korea to resume bilateral exercises with the Republic of Korea Armed Forces. “Since the June 2018 Singapore summit, the United States has suspended ULCHI FREEDOM GUARDIAN, VIGILANT ACE, and other smaller exercises with the ROK Armed Forces. Your office has characterized this suspension as a ‘good faith gesture to enable diplomacy.’ But with the International Atomic Energy Agency assessment that the North Korean nuclear program is continuing and developing further, we believe it would be appropriate to resume exercises in coordination with the ROK. “Ultimately, the timing and scope of bilateral exercises should be dictated by national security interests, not the whims of the Pyongyang regime. And we do not view military exercises as contrary to ongoing diplomatic efforts. By demonstrating the U.S. commitment to a treaty ally and promoting readiness, military exercises with the ROK Armed Forces are complementary to joint efforts to pressure North Korea to reduce or eliminate its nuclear program.” 13 HASC Members joined the letter: Rep. Elaine Luria, Rep. Katie Hill, Rep. Susan Davis, Rep. Ruben Gallego, Rep. Gilbert Ray Cisneros, Jr., Rep. Filemon Vela, Rep. Andy Kim, Rep. Jason Crow, Rep. John Garamendi, Rep. Seth Moulton, Rep. William Keating and Rep. Salud Carbajal. You can read the full letter here. ###
01.29.2019	ANACORTES, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to join the Congressman at a Town Talk in Anacortes to discuss restoring government accountability. On January 3, a new Democratic-controlled House of Representatives began with a promise to clean up corruption and ensure public officials work for the people. To make good on this promise, Democrats introduced H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which will do three important things: make voting easier, end dark money in politics and ensure integrity of public officials. This event is open to the press. Please RSVP to Amanda Munger at Amanda.Munger@mail.house.gov. Saturday, February 2 Larsen will hold a Town Talk on restoring government accountability 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. PDT Anacortes City Hall City Council Chambers Q Ave and 6th Street Anacortes, WA 98221 ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement on the president’s announcement of a deal to reopen the government. “I stand with the 800,000 American workers, including more than 10,000 Washingtonians, who have been impacted by the shutdown and thank them for their work every day to protect and support U.S. communities. These Americans should not be forced to work in fear of missing a paycheck. More than half of Americans say they live paycheck-to-paycheck. This government shutdown has put these employees and their families in a tough spot of choosing between their job and putting food on the table.” “Congress is set to reopen the government, put Americans back to work and ensure they receive the back pay to which they are entitled. Then Congress and the president can work on a border security compromise. While I am frustrated this is only a three-week deal, it does put Americans back to work.” “I thank everyone who came out to my three town halls, called and wrote to my office over the last month to discuss the shutdown and to share thoughts on border security. I am holding additional town halls soon and encourage people to attend and continue the conversation about shutdown and what need to be done to avoid them in the future.” ###
01.25.2019	Washington, DC- Today, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) issued statements in response to the delays to our aviation system caused by the absurd government shutdown. “For 35 days, the dedicated air traffic controllers who guide 43,000 flights a day and keep millions of Americans safe each year have gone to work knowing that they will not be paid. Today marks the second time that our air traffic controllers will receive pay stubs that say zero dollars. Meanwhile, their bills are piling up and many are struggling to make ends meet. Every day that this absurd shutdown drags on, President Trump jeopardizes the safety and security of the largest, most complex aviation system in the world. Enough is enough. End this stupid, senseless shutdown, now,” said Chairman DeFazio (D-OR). “U.S. aviation is the gold standard of flight because of our air traffic controllers and aviation workforce. Their work ensures the safety of the traveling public, keeps the aviation system running efficiently and enables passengers to reach their final destinations without incident. For more than a month, these essential personnel have been forced to work without pay, and often overtime under immensely stressful circumstances. This shutdown is hurting American families and the aviation economy, and is jeopardizing the safety of the largest, busiest, and most complex airspace system in the world. President Trump must end the shutdown now, put Americans back to work and ensure they get the back pay to which they are entitled,” said Chairman Larsen (D-WA). ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, was selected to serve on the Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities and the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces. “I have served on the House Armed Services Committee since I came to the House of Representatives in 2001 to support our women and men in the military and ensure they have the resources needed to support national security,” said Larsen. “During the 116th Congress, the House Armed Services Committee will need to address critical national security issues, such as ensuring the United States remains a leader within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, strengthening military readiness, spurring innovative research to prepare for future conflicts and increasing oversight of nuclear weapons programs.” The Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities oversees U.S. intelligence programs, special operations forces, cybersecurity and science and technology. Washington state is home to research and development projects at local universities including the National Center of Academic Excellence in Information Assurance and Cyber Defense at Whatcom Community College. The Subcommittee on Strategic Forces oversees nuclear weapons programs, strategic arms control, missile defense and space systems. According to the Washington State Department of Commerce, the state is home to more than three dozen space-related companies including Blue Origin, SpaceX, Spaceflight Industries, Boeing and many more. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on behalf of the women and men of the armed forces to promote strong, values-based national security for the American people.” ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) was elected by his colleagues as the Chair of the House Subcommittee on Aviation, which has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation and oversees the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “With the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018, the Aviation Subcommittee will focus on overseeing the implementation of the bill and have an opportunity to explore new issues. With safety as our guiding principle, I would like to explore what is possible and on the horizon in aviation and what is needed to ensure the United States keeps innovating and remains globally competitive. Aviation is critical to Washington state’s economy. General aviation contributes more than $150 billion each year to the nation’s economic output, and directly or indirectly employs more than one million people. In Washington state, this includes $3.6 billion and more than 30,000 jobs. Notably, more than 136,000 people who make up the aerospace workforce call Washington state home. Snohomish County, part of Washington’s Second District, is home to the state’s second-largest concentration of aerospace jobs, with more than 43,000 in aerospace manufacturing. “As Aviation Subcommittee Chair, I am committed to strengthening aviation safety by responding to safety incidents and regulatory gaps in the FAA’s oversight of the U.S. aviation industry; investing in the future of aviation through fostering technological innovation to advance the safe and efficient integration of new users; improving U.S. competitiveness through robust federal investment in aviation and airport infrastructure, supporting U.S. manufacturers and increasing and developing our aviation workforce; and enhancing consumer protections for passengers,” said Larsen. "I look forward to working with Rep. Garret Graves who will serve as Ranking Member, and the Members of the Subcommittee.” ###
01.24.2019	Washington, DC- Today, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and senior member of the committee Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA), responded to news that Newark Liberty International Airport was forced to halt all air traffic after two pilots reported seeing a drone flying nearby. "Thankfully, no one was injured yesterday, but let me be clear, this incident could have had a tragic ending. Irresponsible drone users have caused serious safety issues and have put thousands of lives in danger," DeFazio said. "At my request, the FAA has been working for years to evaluate the severity of airborne collisions between a drone and an aircraft. Initial findings showed that even a small drone can cause severe damage to an aircraft body—structural damage greater than a bird strike—yet we still do not know what happens if one were sucked into a jet engine. That is why I continue to urge the FAA to complete its testing. Unfortunately, the Trump Shutdown is impacting the FAA’s implementation of provisions enacted as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which will save lives and keep our skies safe. As Chairman, I intend to keep the pressure on the FAA to complete its work." DeFazio said. “Unmanned aircraft systems are flourishing in the skies at a pace we did not imagine years ago. Inherent in the exponential growth of this technology and applications in the United States are the safety and security risks they can pose to the nation's most critical and sensitive assets and facilities, such as airports,” Larsen said. “As more users enter the U.S. airspace, the most important issue must be safe integration. Safety is, and must be, Congress’ number one priority when it comes to the use of drones.” On Tuesday, January 22, two airline pilots flying into Newark reported seeing a drone flying at an altitude of about 3,500 feet. The reported sightings ultimately led to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issuing a ground stop for the airport. While the FAA has not confirmed the sighting was in fact a drone, the incident follows a series of near-misses and collisions between drones and manned aircraft in North America. In addition, yesterday's incident follows last month's reported drone sightings at Gatwick Airport in London that caused several days of disruption and affected the travel plans of thousands of travelers, as well as a second drone sighting earlier this month that temporarily suspended operations at Heathrow Airport in London. Chairman DeFazio fought for three years to repeal the 2012 law, passed by the Republican majority, which prohibited FAA regulation of recreational drones in U.S. airspace. His proposal was adopted in last year's FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, finally restoring the FAA's authority to establish safety-enhancing requirements, applicable to all UAS operators and needed to ensure the safety and security of U.S. airspace. This includes standards for remotely identifying and tracking drone operators in the National Airspace System, which will be critical to protecting our Nation's airports and finding and stopping reckless users. ###
01.23.2019	Washington, DC- Today, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), and senior member of the committee Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA), responded to news that Newark Liberty International Airport was forced to halt all air traffic after two pilots reported seeing a drone flying nearby. "Thankfully, no one was injured yesterday, but let me be clear, this incident could have had a tragic ending. Irresponsible drone users have caused serious safety issues and have put thousands of lives in danger," DeFazio said. "At my request, the FAA has been working for years to evaluate the severity of airborne collisions between a drone and an aircraft. Initial findings showed that even a small drone can cause severe damage to an aircraft body—structural damage greater than a bird strike—yet we still do not know what happens if one were sucked into a jet engine. That is why I continue to urge the FAA to complete its testing. Unfortunately, the Trump Shutdown is impacting the FAA’s implementation of provisions enacted as part of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, which will save lives and keep our skies safe. As Chairman, I intend to keep the pressure on the FAA to complete its work." DeFazio said. “Unmanned aircraft systems are flourishing in the skies at a pace we did not imagine years ago. Inherent in the exponential growth of this technology and applications in the United States are the safety and security risks they can pose to the nation's most critical and sensitive assets and facilities, such as airports,” Larsen said. “As more users enter the U.S. airspace, the most important issue must be safe integration. Safety is, and must be, Congress’ number one priority when it comes to the use of drones.” On Tuesday, January 22, two airline pilots flying into Newark reported seeing a drone flying at an altitude of about 3,500 feet. The reported sightings ultimately led to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issuing a ground stop for the airport. While the FAA has not confirmed the sighting was in fact a drone, the incident follows a series of near-misses and collisions between drones and manned aircraft in North America. In addition, yesterday's incident follows last month's reported drone sightings at Gatwick Airport in London that caused several days of disruption and affected the travel plans of thousands of travelers, as well as a second drone sighting earlier this month that temporarily suspended operations at Heathrow Airport in London. Chairman DeFazio fought for three years to repeal the 2012 law, passed by the Republican majority, which prohibited FAA regulation of recreational drones in U.S. airspace. His proposal was adopted in last year's FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, finally restoring the FAA's authority to establish safety-enhancing requirements, applicable to all UAS operators and needed to ensure the safety and security of U.S. airspace. This includes standards for remotely identifying and tracking drone operators in the National Airspace System, which will be critical to protecting our Nation's airports and finding and stopping reckless users. ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Larsen issued the below statement in support of the Transportation Security Administration officers and air traffic controllers who held a rally at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport to call for an end to the partial government shutdown. "I stand with you today in calling for the government to reopen, to put Americans back to work and to ensure you get the back pay to which you are entitled. "U.S. aviation is the gold standard of flight because of you. "Your work ensures the safety of the traveling public, keeps the aviation system running efficiently and enables passengers to reach their final destinations without incident. "Unfortunately, this shutdown is rippling throughout the aviation economy. "I have heard from many of you who are feeling the brunt of the shutdown. "TSA workers are having to choose between coming to work and not getting paid and staying home to support their families. "Flight attendants have rightly expressed concerns about safety for the traveling public and themselves. "We fought hard during the FAA reauthorization process to include important safety provisions like mandatory ten hours of flight rest for flight attendants and working to address sexual harassment of employees, passengers and crew. Unfortunately, during the shutdown the FAA will not begin oversight of these mandates. "I stand with you. The president must reopen the government, put Americans back to work and ensure you get the back pay to which you are entitled."
01.17.2019	MARYSVILLE, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to join the Congressman at a town talk in Marysville on the impacts of the partial government shutdown on Washington state and to discuss restoring government accountability. A partial government shutdown is bad for Washington state. Larsen is focused on reopening the government, putting Americans back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled. Once the government is funded and impacted workers have received their entitled back pay, Congress can focus on important legislation like H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which will do three important things: make voting easier, end dark money and ensure integrity of public officials. This event is open to the press. Please RSVP to Amanda Munger at Amanda.Munger@mail.house.gov. Sunday, January 20 Larsen will hold a Town Talk on the partial government shutdown and restoring government accountability 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. PDT Marysville YMCA 6420 60th Drive NE Marysville, WA 98270 ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) today introduced the America Votes Act to allow voters arriving at polls without the identification required by their state to submit a sworn, written statement affirming their identity. “Voter ID laws are discriminatory. Congress should be looking for ways to break down barriers in states so all people can fully participate in our democracy,” said Larsen. “The America Votes Act is a straightforward bill to fight voter identification laws that disenfranchise citizens and undermine our democracy. I modeled the legislation after the voting system in Washington state where voters can affirm their identity by submitting a similar written statement.” “In 2019, voting should be easy,” said Congressman Veasey. “But getting a photo ID is far from simple; especially if you’re in one of the 34 states with voter ID laws and are Latino, African American, poor, or elderly. The wave of discriminatory and restrictive photo voter ID laws implemented after the Shelby decision purposely silenced thousands of American votes, including minority voters across Texas. I’m introducing The America Votes Act with Rep. Larsen because this is a critical first step to take on these unjust laws in the courts and through legislation.” The America Votes Act would create new protections for voters arriving at polls, allowing them to affirm their identity by submitting a sworn, written statement, just like absentee voters, even if they do not have state-required identification required. Voters would then be allowed to submit a standard, not provisional, ballot. The legislation is modeled on the voting system in Washington state where voters can affirm their identity by submitting a similar written statement. The America Votes Act is Congressman Larsen’s first piece of legislation introduced in the 116th Congress. The bill has the support of 55 other members of Congress and is included in H.R. 1, the For the People Act. ###
01.16.2019	MOUNTLAKE TERRACE, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to join the Congressman at a town talk in Mountlake Terrace on the impacts of the partial government shutdown on Washington state and to discuss restoring government accountability. A partial government shutdown is bad for Washington state. Larsen is focused on reopening the government, putting people back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled. Once the government is funded and impacted workers have received their entitled back pay, Congress can focus on important legislation like H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which will do three important things: make voting easier, end dark money and ensure integrity of public officials. This event is open to the press. Please RSVP to Amanda Munger at Amanda.Munger@mail.house.gov. Saturday, January 19 Larsen will hold a Town Talk on the partial government shutdown and restoring government accountability 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. PDT Mountlake Terrace City Hall Council Chambers Room 220 6100 219th Street SW Mountlake Terrace, WA 98043 ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to a report in The New York Times that President Trump has discussed pulling the United States out of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO): “U.S. withdrawal from NATO would be a disaster for national security and only serve to help President Putin accomplish his chief foreign policy goal of weakening the alliance. By even having a discussion on withdrawal, President Trump is already undermining the military alliance that has been critical to peace and security since World War II.” “I stand with my bipartisan colleagues in strong support of NATO and in opposition to President Trump’s continued anti-NATO agenda. NATO is the foundation of U.S.-European security and a massive strategic advantage for the United States. If the president is unable to comprehend these simple facts, it is incumbent on his advisors and Congressional leadership to educate him, before he makes an irreversible mistake.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the seventh time to end the partial government shutdown and put Americans back to work. “Congress’ number one priority right now must be reopening the government, putting Americans back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled,” said Larsen. H.J. Resolution 27 would have immediately reopened the government with a Continuing Resolution through February 1. Unfortunately, the resolution failed to pass in the House. “It is time to end the partial government shutdown. Once the government is funded and impacted workers have received their entitled back pay, Congress and the president can have a meaningful debate about working together on border protection and immigration policies that work.” ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement after voting for a resolution rejecting white nationalism and white supremacy. The vote comes after reports Rep. Steve King (IA-04) made comments questioning why white supremacy and white nationalism language is offensive. “There is no place for hateful rhetoric by those elected to represent the American people,” said Larsen. “Congressman King’s comments are abhorrent and spread intolerance and hate in a time of frustration and division across the country. Elected leaders must rise above this dangerous behavior.” ###
01.15.2019	Rep. Larsen joined air traffic controllers and other aviation workforce personnel to call on President Trump to end the shutdown. View his remarks here. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) and federal employees including air traffic controllers and other aviation workforce personnel to call on President Trump to end the shutdown and put Americans back to work. Larsen also highlighted the impacts of the shutdown on the U.S. aviation system. “Congress’ number one priority right now must be reopening the government, putting Americans back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled,” said Larsen. “This shutdown is rippling throughout the aviation economy. Not only are folks like the air traffic controllers, those who support them and the technicians who make sure the equipment works right are out of work, but private sector jobs are at risk as well,” said Larsen. “Washington state is home to 1,500 aerospace suppliers who support and supply original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and airplane manufacturers across the country. These private sector jobs are at risk if the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) isn’t open and making sure safety inspections are taking place, making sure that regulators can enter facilities and ensure that processes are being done the right way, and these products get made the right way.” Impacts of a Shutdown on Aviation Employees & FAA Reauthorization Implementation Staffing: While approximately 40 percent of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) workforce is furloughed, there are thousands of air traffic controllers and critical aviation safety personnel working without pay through the shutdown. Further, the FAA's air traffic controller training center is shuttered due to the shutdown, hampering the agency’s efforts to enhance the controller workforce. Safety and regulations: Due to the furlough of FAA safety staff, the shutdown diminishes the agency's oversight of U.S. airlines and aircraft manufacturing, introducing potential safety risks for airline passengers and crew. During the shutdown, the FAA will not begin oversight of important Congressional mandates in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, such as ten hours of rest for flight attendants or working to address sexual harassment of employees, passengers and crew through open reporting and accountability. Manufacturing: During the shutdown, FAA inspectors who are responsible for approving new aircraft, aviation products, and infrastructure are furloughed, which hinders the ability of U.S. aerospace manufacturers to remain competitive globally. In addition, the FAA’s work on streamlining the certification process for aviation and aerospace products, as called for in the FAA reauthorization bill, has come to a halt. This standstill limits the ability of U.S. manufacturers to have newer and safer products to market faster. Airspace modernization: The shutdown stops progress on the implementation of NextGen, the FAA's initiative to modernize the National Airspace System (NAS), delaying significant safety and efficiency benefits for U.S. airspace users and the traveling public. Airport infrastructure: Washington state alone needs over $190 billion in infrastructure investments with aviation requiring $12.6 billion. Under the shutdown, there are no new Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grants issued, hurting projects that modernize and maintain airport terminals. ###
01.11.2019	WHATCOM COUNTY, WA— On Sunday, January 13, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) invites constituents to join him for a town hall to discuss the impacts of the partial government shutdown on Washington’s Second District. A partial government shutdown is bad for Washington state. Larsen is focused on reopening the government, putting people back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled. This event is open to the press. Please RSVP to Amanda Munger at Amanda.Munger@mail.house.gov. Sunday, January 13 Larsen will host a town hall to discuss shutdown impacts on Washington’s Second District 1:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Whatcom Community College Heiner Hall 288 W Kellogg Road Bellingham, WA 98226 ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to ensure back pay for all furloughed federal employees. “Today marks the 21st day in which 800,000 federal workers are either furloughed or working without pay, including 10,877 Washingtonians,” said Larsen. “I voted today to ensure federal employees who are furloughed during the government shutdown receive the back pay to which they are entitled. It is time to reopen the government and put people back to work.” The House of Representatives passed the Government Employee Fair Treatment Act by a 411 – 7 vote. The bill now heads to the president’s desk for a signature. ###
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to reopen key federal agencies to support Washington state’s National Parks and environment. Larsen voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bill. The Fiscal Year 2019 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bill would reopen the Department of the Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency. “The partial government shutdown has put iconic National Parks like the San Juan Island National Park and Monument at risk. Without visitor services, parks across the country have been vandalized, including U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service properties across Snohomish County,” said Larsen. “Outdoor recreation supports an estimated 7.6 million jobs in the United States and plays a significant role in the rural economies and for local businesses in the Second District. Reopening the Department of the Interior will ensure Washington’s outdoor spaces can continue to be enjoyed by current and future generations.” Potential Impacts to Washington’s Second District Residents Supports Staffing at National Parks and Wildlife Areas: The bill would reopen the Department of the Interior and ensure that National Parks like Ebey’s Landing National Historic Reserve, North Cascade National Park and the San Juan Island National Historical Park and Monument are fully staffed, protected from vandalism and that visitors remain safe while exploring these iconic locations. Progresses Review of Historic Preservation Consultations on Whidbey Island: The bill would bring back furloughed Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) employees. The partial government shutdown has effectively paused the current comment period that the ACHP was leading on impacts to historic preservation from a proposed increase in EA-18G Growler operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Larsen sent a letter to Secretary Spencer calling on the Navy to fulfill its commitment to wait on issuing a final Record of Decision on Growler operations until they receive and address ACHP comments. Ensures Environmental Inspections Continue: The bill would reopen the Environmental Protection Agency and ensure the continuation of inspections of drinking water systems, hazardous waste management and chemical facilities across Washington state. ###
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to reopen key federal agencies to support local transportation projects and help ensure people can stay in their homes. Larsen voted in support of two appropriations bills, the Fiscal Year 2019 Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) appropriations bill and the Fiscal Year 2019 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies appropriations bill. “Congress’ number one priority right now must be reopening the government, putting people back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled,” said Larsen. The Fiscal Year 2019 THUD appropriations bill would reopen the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “Reopening the Department of Transportation will ensure Washington’s infrastructure and transportation projects continue without consequence to the thousands of Second District residents who rely on these services,” said Larsen, the only member of the Washington state delegation on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The Fiscal Year 2019 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies appropriations bill would reopen the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration and fund the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Child Nutrition Programs. “The partial government shutdown has placed an undue burden on the more than 34,000 households in Washington’s Second District using food stamps to put dinner on the table each night,” said Larsen. “Reopening USDA and the FDA will help ensure the nearly one in eight people in Washington state who suffer from food insecurity have food on the table each night.” Potential Impacts to Washington’s Second District Residents Continues Distribution of Housing and Urban Development Funding: The THUD appropriations bill would reopen HUD and ensure people living in HUD housing are not evicted. During the shutdown, the approval of HUD applications has stalled. Continued delays would impact projects across the District like Bellingham Housing Authority’s Section 18 Demolition and Disposition application and Skagit County’s HOME program. Eases the Strain on the Aviation Workforce: The THUD appropriations bill would reopen Department of Transportation and ensure the safety of the traveling public. During the shutdown, frontline personnel like Air Traffic Controllers are working without pay. In addition, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) safety officials tasked with inspecting and certifying aircrafts and aviation infrastructure are furloughed. This bill will provide them with the pay to which they are entitled. Supports Local Transit Projects: The THUD appropriations bill would also ensure local transportation projects are funded on time, like Community Transit’s Green Line bus rapid transit project. Construction on the Seaway Transit Center began last year and will be the north hub for the Green Line, scheduled to open for service early this year. Funds USDA Rural Housing Vouchers: The Agriculture appropriations bill would reopen USDA and help ensure payments on rental assistance and housing vouchers for low- and extremely low-income tenants continue. Two-thirds of extremely-low income residents in Washington state spend more than 30 percent of income on housing costs. These people depend on rental assistance and vouchers to continue putting a roof over their heads. Protects SNAP benefits: The Agriculture appropriations bill funds SNAP and helps ensure families do not lose their SNAP benefits. More than 34,000 households in Washington’s Second District rely on SNAP benefits to put dinner on the table each night. Ensures Timely Operations at Food Banks: The Agriculture appropriations bill would reopen USDA and provide funding for emergency food assistance distributors, like Bellingham Food Bank in Washington’s Second District. A shutdown impacts their operations and ability to transport, distribute and store food. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to reopen key federal agencies to support local small businesses. Larsen voted in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations bill. “Congress’ number one priority right now must be reopening the government, putting people back to work and giving federal workers and contractors the back pay to which they are entitled,” said Larsen. The Fiscal Year 2019 Financial Services appropriations bill would reopen the Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Small Business Administration (SBA), among other key agencies. “The more than 146,000 small businesses that call Northwest Washington home are critical to local jobs and the local economy. Reopening the Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service and the Small Business Administration will ensure Washington’s small businesses can continue operations and support the local economy.” Potential Impacts to Washington’s Second District Residents Provide Funding for Small Business Administration Loans: The bill would provide funding for SBA loans. Local banks across the Second District are not currently able to execute loans without SBA approval. Additionally, Western Washington University Small Business Development Center predicts the shutdown will create a backlog in SBA loan processing and the longer the shutdown continues the larger this impact will be. Reopening the government and providing funding for SBA is critical to lessening those impacts. Open the National Taxpayer Advocate Seattle Office: The bill would reopen IRS taxpayer services offices across the country. The National Taxpayer Advocate Office in Seattle is closed during the shutdown. The office offers free help to people through the tax filing process and with the IRS. In 2017, 313 residents from Washington’s Second District received assistance from the Taxpayer Advocates Service. Ensure Taxpayers Receive Tax Refund in Full and On Time: The bill would reopen the IRS and ensure Washingtonians receive their tax refund in full and on time. Last year 2.7 million Washingtonians were issued tax refunds. The average tax refund in Washington state was $2,661. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement in response to Gov. Jay Inslee’s proposal to create a public insurance option in Washington state. “I applaud Governor Inslee’s leadership to ensure all Washingtonians have access to affordable, high quality health care. “I have long believed the best way to provide universal health care is to protect the Affordable Care Act and expand coverage by adding a public option to drive marketplace competition. I am proud that Washington state will lead this change by example. “Despite the Trump administration’s best attempts to undermine the Affordable Care Act, it is working. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, over 750,000 Washingtonians gained insurance coverage, more than three million people with pre-existing conditions no longer have to live in fear of being denied health coverage and nearly 72,000 seniors have saved a cumulative $76 million on their prescription drugs. “I remain steadfast in my support to strengthen the Affordable Care Act and provide universal health care through a public option. As Governor Inslee works to expand health care coverage and lower health care costs in Washington state, I will continue that fight in Washington, D.C.” The Governor’s legislation would: Give every county access to an affordable health care plan contracted by the state through the Washington Health Benefit Exchange. Standardize public option plans to increase consistency of benefits and transparency in costs. Provide high quality plans consistent with the ACA to ensure lower costs won’t result in lower quality. Ensure consumers do not spend more than ten percent of their income on premiums. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Larsen sent the below letter to Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer urging the Navy to fulfill its commitment to not sign a Record of Decision on Growler operations until receiving and addressing comments from the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) despite the unanticipated delay caused by the partial government shutdown. January 9, 2019 The Honorable Richard V. Spencer Secretary of the Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-1000 Dear Secretary Spencer: While the Department of Defense is one of the six federal agencies for which Congress has passed appropriations for Fiscal Year 2019, the partial government shutdown is having indirect effects on the military. On November 30, 2018, the Navy terminated consultations with state and local stakeholders on the impacts to historic preservation of a proposed increase in EA-18G Growler operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. This termination triggered a 45-day period for comment by the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), the independent agency tasked with advising Congress and the executive branch on preservation and use of historic resources. But with the ACHP currently shut down, this comment period has been effectively paused. Consistent with 36 CFR § 800, Navy leadership has pledged not to sign a Record of Decision on Growler operations until receiving and addressing comments from the ACHP on the suitability of historic preservation consultations. I urge you to fulfill this commitment despite the unanticipated delay caused by the partial government shutdown. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for your continued support for Navy communities. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today cosponsored H.R. 1, the For The People Act, a bill to return power back to the people. “I am proud to cosponsor this historic bill. H.R. 1 will move to end corruption, strengthen democracy and voting rights and get dark money out of politics. This long-overdue legislation will restore faith in government,” Larsen said. “I am also happy the bill includes legislation I introduced, the America Votes Act, to allow voters arriving at polls without the identification required by their state to submit a sworn, written statement affirming their identity, as we do in Washington state. I look forward to the House passing this bill and setting an agenda that works better for people of the Second District.” A summary of H.R. 1 can be found here. ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded the findings of the U.S. Coast Guard that Dakota Creek Industries (DCI) did not knowingly violate the Jones Act in the construction of the America’s Finest, clearing the way to preserve hundreds of jobs at DCI in Anacortes. “The Coast Guard worked hard to create a thorough report absolving Dakota Creek and giving the green light to the America’s Finest vessel,” said Larsen. “The employees at Dakota Creek support a job-creating industry that strengthens national defense and fosters innovation and contributes to the maritime economy in Washington state and Alaska. I am proud to be a part of giving the hard working employees at Dakota Creek a stronger future.” Larsen has been a strong advocate for DCI. The recently-enacted Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 includes a Jones Act waiver for the 264-foot America’s Finest vessel. The waiver was subject to a 30-day Coast Guard review, which is now complete, and will allow the America’s Finest to maintain its vessel certification and provide higher performance and increased safety for the crew. The Jones Act places restrictions on the amount of foreign-made steel allowed in construction of fishing vessels in an effort to promote U.S.-built and flagged vessels. The Coast Guard concluded DCI did not knowingly use excess foreign steel for the America’s Finest. Larsen has successfully included the waiver for DCI twice in related House-passed legislation. In November, Larsen spoke on the House Floor in support of the legislation. Larsen is the only member of the Washington state delegation serving on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and is a senior member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. ###
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement regarding the impacts a partial government shutdown will have on Washington state communities. “A partial government shutdown is bad for Washington state,” said Larsen. “The childish games played by President Trump and Republicans in Congress will cause Washington state organizations and our communities to feel the consequences of a shutdown.” “I have heard from local organizations, like the Bellingham Food Bank, U.S. Department of Agriculture Service Center in Mount Vernon and Volunteers of America Western Washington, a partial shutdown will negatively impact operations, including their ability to provide funding for transportation, distribution and storage of food. “This shutdown is unnecessary and will impact the thousands of workers who will now spend the holidays working without pay, especially the federal transportation personnel who will support the estimated 45 million passengers travelling during the holidays.” Local Impacts of a Partial Government Shutdown Bellingham Food Bank is an emergency food assistance distributor. A shutdown will impact their operations and ability to transport, distribute and store food. A shutdown would close the USDA Service Center in Mount Vernon, which provides support for farmers and rural communities. A long-term shutdown could impact Volunteers of America Western Washington’s operations and harm their ability to help the people they serve. Washington State Department of Transportation will need to delay Federal Transit Administration grant payments during a shutdown. ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement after voting for the First Step Act, which makes significant changes to the federal criminal justice system: “The First Step Act is a good start in making important reforms to the U.S. criminal justice system. This bill reforms sentencing, prisoner assessment, living conditions and post-sentencing support. Through new programs, the bill aims to reduce recidivism and implement post-sentencing support,” said Larsen. The bill makes important sentencing reforms for non-violent drug offenders and allows prisoners sentenced before the 2010 law to decrease the disparity on crack/cocaine to petition the court to be resentenced. The bill also includes other necessary provisions like banning the restraint of pregnant women and allowing access to employment assistance, substance abuse treatment, housing, family programming, mentoring and victim support. “While Congress has more work to do in reforming the criminal justice system and decreasing the disparities within the system, I hope this first step will lead to many second chances,” said Larsen. ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi calling for Congress to pass legislation to permanently authorize and allocate mandatory funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) before the end of the 115th Congress. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is the cornerstone of environmental conservation which helps preserve Washington state’s public lands and waters. Over the last 50 years, Washington state has received more than $675 million from the LWCF to help protect and restore green spaces such as Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve, Chuckanut Bay and the Wild Sky Wilderness in my district. A healthy environment is vital to Washingtonians’ way of life and the regional economy. Outdoor recreation is responsible for an estimated 7.6 million jobs in the United States and plays a significant role in the rural economies and for local businesses in the Second District,” Larsen wrote. The Land and Water Conservation Authorization and Funding Act would permanently reauthorize and fully fund the LWCF. “Securing annual, mandatory appropriations and permanent reauthorization for the LWCF will safeguard the nation’s environmental heritage and guarantee green spaces and pristine waters are available for the enjoyment of future generations.” You can read the full letter below. December 20, 2018 Representative Paul D. Ryan Speaker United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Representative Nancy Pelosi Minority Leader United States House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi: I write in strong support of the passage of the Land and Water Conservation Authorization and Funding Act (H.R. 6759). Congress must pass this bipartisan legislation to permanently reauthorize and allocate mandatory funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) before the end of the 115th Congress. The Land and Water Conservation Fund is the cornerstone of environmental conservation which helps preserve Washington state’s public lands and waters. Over the last 50 years, Washington state has received more than $675 million from the LWCF to help protect and restore green spaces such as Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve, Chuckanut Bay and the Wild Sky Wilderness in my district. A healthy environment is vital to Washingtonians’ way of life and the regional economy. Outdoor recreation is responsible for an estimated 7.6 million jobs in the United States and plays a significant role in the rural economies and for local businesses in the Second District. I am a proud cosponsor of H.R.6759, which would permanently reauthorize and fully fund the LWCF. Securing annual, mandatory appropriations and permanent reauthorization for the LWCF will safeguard the nation’s environmental heritage and guarantee green spaces and pristine waters are available for the enjoyment of future generations. Congress cannot afford to hesitate to act on this issue any longer. I strongly support permanent reauthorization of the LWCF and the passage of the Land and Water Conservation Authorization and Funding Act (H.R. 6759) before the end of the 115th Congress. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to President Trump calling for the U.S. to combat the current outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The outbreak is already the second worst in history with more than 500 cases, including nearly 300 deaths. “Experts at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) are among the very best in the world, having gained valuable experience during the largely unsung success of the response to the 2014 West Africa Ebola outbreak. These agencies have responded to other global emergencies where security threats were present. U.S. leadership will be critical to halting the current Ebola outbreak in the DRC and could convince other countries to increase their commitments,” Larsen wrote in the letter. As Larsen noted in his letter, deploying CDC and USAID personnel to the epicenter of the outbreak would protect national security and align with the National Security Strategy and National Biodefense Strategy. “I believe the U.S. response to date has been overly cautious. I ask you to direct the National Security Council to assess how many U.S. personnel are needed in North Kivu and Ituri, how to most effectively use them to combat the epidemic and how best to protect responders from security threats,” Larsen continued. You can read the full letter below. December 20, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: The National Security Strategy (NSS) rightly identifies the impact of biological threats on national security. Building on this point, the National Biodefense Strategy (NBS) highlights the importance of U.S. intervention abroad, stating that “the health of the American people depends on our ability to stem infectious disease outbreaks at their source, wherever and however they occur.” The current outbreak of Ebola in North Kivu and Ituri provinces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is already the second worst Ebola outbreak in history. The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified 505 cases, including 296 deaths, and the situation is likely to get worse. Deploying Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) personnel to the epicenter of the outbreak would protect national security and align with the NSS and NBS. The domestic and international response has been complicated by ongoing violence in the region, largely perpetrated by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), an Islamist militant group. This violence is inexorably linked to the spread of Ebola. The security situation has inhibited the international response, and new infections increased in the chaos and widespread mourning following a September 22 attack attributed to the ADF. As dangerous as this outbreak is already, it will likely get worse without appropriate international intervention. North Kivu is home to 1.1 million internally displaced persons, complicating case investigation and contact tracing. The outbreak is also occurring near international borders, raising concern for further spread of the disease. In addition, the WHO has reported 51 infections of health workers, highlighting the insufficiency of the existing response in controlling the spread of the virus. The WHO and its partners currently on the ground are leading a brave response with limited resources and at high personal risk. With just a handful of U.S. personnel in the region, it is time for the United States to do more. Instead, CDC personnel were ordered to withdraw to Kinshasa, more than 1,000 miles away. Experts at the CDC and USAID are among the very best in the world, having gained valuable experience during the largely unsung success of the response to the 2014 West Africa Ebola outbreak. These agencies have responded to other global emergencies where security threats were present. U.S. leadership will be critical to halting the current Ebola outbreak in the DRC and could convince other countries to increase their commitments. I believe the U.S. response to date has been overly cautious. I ask you to direct the National Security Council (NSC) to assess how many U.S. personnel are needed in North Kivu and Ituri, how to most effectively use them to combat the epidemic and how best to protect responders from security threats. Additionally, I request a briefing from the appropriate NSC staff on this assessment and an implementation plan. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District CC: Michael R. Pompeo, Secretary of State, United States Department of State CC: Robert R. Redfield, MD, Director, Center for Disease Control and Prevention CC: Mark Green, Administrator, United States Agency for International Development ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, Maria Cantwell (D-WA), a senior member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D, WA-2nd), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Pramila Jayapal (D, WA-7th) applauded the signing of the full funding grant agreement for the Lynnwood Link light rail extension following months of pressure from lawmakers urging U. S. Department of Transportation officials to follow Congressional direction and approve the grant. The final agreement—signed by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and Sound Transit CEO Peter Rogoff—cements a $1.2 billion commitment from the federal government to help fund the Lynnwood Link project, and allows Sound Transit to begin drawing down on $200 million in federal funding already allocated by Congress for the project through the Capital Investment Grants (CIG) program. According to Sound Transit, now that the final agreement is signed and executed, work on the Lynnwood Link light rail extension is slated to begin in early 2019. This critical step comes on the heels of a new $657.9 million direct loan also approved through the Department’s Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program in support of the Lynnwood Link project. “Just in time for the holidays, this major federal investment is an incredible gift to Puget Sound to help address congestion on our roads and connect residents to jobs, schools, and businesses in King and Snohomish counties. I commend Secretary Chao and the FTA for working with us to move this vital project forward, and I look forward to continuing our work in Congress to get this project across the finish line,” said Senator Murray. “The $1.2 billion commitment from the Department of Transportation is an important next step in supporting local jobs and the regional economy,” said Representative Larsen. “The Lynnwood Link Extension will address traffic congestion in Snohomish County and provide a reliable commuting option for an additional 67,000 daily riders who are traveling to work, school and home. Washington state residents have voted three times to fund Sound Transit’s expansion projects, the majority of which are self-funded.” “This is incredible news for over 68,500 commuters in King and Snohomish counties. A successful public transit system is key to connecting our communities, strengthening our economy and creating a greener, cleaner infrastructure for Washington,” said Representative Jayapal. “I look forward to continuing working with the Washington delegation to ensure that our state is livable, sustainable and welcoming.” BACKGROUND: The 8.5 mile Lynnwood Link light rail extension project will connect King and Snohomish Counties, helping address concerns over increasing congestion and continued regional growth with an estimated one million new residents expected in Puget Sound by 2040. The lawmakers have all been strong advocates in Congress for federal investments in Washington state infrastructure priorities, writing to Secretary Chao in June to urge her to complete the full funding grant agreement for the Lynnwood Link extension and follow through on her repeated promises to uphold Congressional direction to approve federal investments affecting projects like Lynnwood Link. Additionally: In the Senate, Senators Murray and Cantwell have long fought to strengthen the Capital Investment Grants program—helping successfully pass two consecutive spending bills that have rejected President Trump’s attempts to slash its funding. Senators Murray and Cantwell have repeatedly pressed senior Department of Transportation officials on funding for the Lynnwood Link project. Senator Murray pushed Secretary Chao during a Senate hearing in April to move forward with additional CIG awards with federal investments already provided by Congress to help support public transportation projects like the Lynnwood Link extension. Senator Cantwell also pressed Secretary Chao for more Sound Transit funding during the secretary’s confirmation hearing. In the House, Representative Larsen, the only member of the Washington state delegation on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has been a fierce advocate for federal investment to develop vital transportation projects throughout Washington state. Larsen has repeatedly pressed Department of Transportation officials, including Secretary Chao, to execute the Full Funding Grant Agreement for Lynnwood Link, which will benefit the local community. ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement after voting for the Farm Bill, which would support Washington’s Second Congressional District: “The final Farm Bill addresses some of the concerns I raised regarding the House Farm Bill in May. Nearly one in eight Washingtonians suffer from hunger, and this legislation provides important funding to help address hunger in local communities. “The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) accounts for 80 percent of the 2018 Farm Bill. The final version of the legislation does not include the egregious work requirements which would have placed an undue burden on the more than 34,000 households in Washington’s Second District using food stamps to put dinner on the table each night. “Instead, the Farm Bill invests in Employment and Training opportunities. In 2016, Washington state’s Basic Food Employment and Training program connected over 2,500 volunteer SNAP recipients with skills, training and job experience to improve their employment prospects and reduce reliance on SNAP. “Washington state is the most trade-dependent state in the country, thanks in part to agriculture. The Farm Bill is an opportunity for Congress to help Washington state farmers stay competitive in a global market. The Farm Bill includes permanent funding for Value-Added Producer Grants (VAPG), which help farmers in Skagit Valley invest in value-added infrastructure to generate new products and create and expand marketing opportunities. Access to VAPG funding will help farmers stay competitive as they sell Washington-grown crops around the world. “Additionally, the bill recognizes the importance of fostering future trade opportunities for local farmers. Agriculture accounts for 12 percent of Washington state’s economy, is the state’s second largest export and supports 160,000 jobs. This legislation will help local groups develop and expand into overseas markets. During my visits to farms and meetings with agriculture groups, I have heard repeatedly about the need to expand funding for trade. This bill maintains funding for market access and development to help companies successfully export Washington state potatoes, apples, seed crops and other specialty crops.” Impacts to Washington’s Second District Increases funding to access fresh produce: The bill increases funding for the Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentives (FINI) and Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) programs. Washington is one of the eight states to receive a large-scale Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive grant. Farmers markets use this funding to match EBT dollars to help people purchase fresh fruits and vegetables from local producers. Provides funding for Employment and Training (E&T): The bill invests funding in the SNAP E&T case management, including providing more staff to work with enrollees or building additional systems to identify needs and track progress over time. Washington state is one of ten states across the country piloting SNAP E&T to learn help people gain skills, training and job experience to help them land good-paying jobs. Funds Value-Added Producer Grants: The bill funds Value-Added Producer Grants which are vital for companies in Skagit Valley. Larsen has toured farms across the Second District including Bow Hill Blueberries and Gothberg Farms in Bow as well as Penn Cove Shellfish on Whidbey Island where he heard about the impact of Value-Added Producer Grants to operations. Funds organic research programs: The bill increases permanent funding for the Organic Research and Extension Initiative, important to the 677 organic farms across Washington state. Washington State University’s (WSU) Mount Vernon Research & Extension Center is the hub for organic research in Northwest Washington. Specialty Crops: The bill protects funding for specialty crops. Skagit County is a significant contributor of specialty crops. Washington state produces 75 percent of the U.S. supply of spinach and cabbage seed and nearly 95 percent of U.S. beet seed. Last year, Larsen visited Viva Farms in Burlington where he heard about the importance of Specialty Crop Block Grants to the company’s operations. ###
12.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded the signing of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, which will save hundreds of jobs at Dakota Creek Industries (DCI) in Anacortes. “Yesterday, I had the chance to meet with the hard-working women and men of Dakota Creek Industries to celebrate the passage of the Coast Guard Authorization Act and to recognize the importance of shipbuilding to Washington state’s economy,” said Larsen. “The employees at Dakota Creek support an industry that creates good jobs, strengthens national defense, fosters innovation and contributes to the maritime economy in Washington state and Alaska. I am proud to stand with the women and men of Dakota Creek to finally secure a Jones Act solution.” Larsen has been a strong advocate for Dakota Creek Industries. The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 includes a Jones Act waiver for the 264-foot America’s Finest vessel, subject to Coast Guard review, which will provide higher performance and increased safety for the crew. The Jones Act places requirements on the amount of foreign-made steel allowed in construction of fishing vessels in an effort to promote U.S.-built and flagged vessels. Larsen has successfully included the waiver for DCI twice in related House-passed legislation. “I appreciate the coordination with Senator Cantwell, Senator Sullivan and Rep. Don Young as we have worked non-stop to find avenues to save hundreds of jobs on the line,” said Larsen. The U.S. Coast Guard will now undertake a 30-day review of whether the shipyard or purchaser knew components used in the manufacturing of the vessel violated Jones Act requirements. “This has been a very difficult and stressful two years for Dakota Creek, and the signing of this bill is a huge relief for all our employees. We now can get back to work serving our valued customers with the support of our many suppliers throughout the region. We wish to express our sincere gratitude to Senator Maria Cantwell, Senator Dan Sullivan and Congressman Don Young for their work in getting this important legislation passed and we would especially like to thank Congressman Rick Larsen and his staff for their tremendous efforts in seeing this through from beginning to end,” said Dakota Creek Industries owner Mike Nelson. Last week, Larsen spoke on the House Floor in support of the legislation. Larsen is the only member of the Washington state delegation serving on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ###
11.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the passage of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018, which will preserve hundreds of jobs at Dakota Creek Industries. “The passage of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 is a win for the hard-working women and men at Dakota Creek Industries. Dakota Creek is a key contributor to the regional economy and supports hundreds of local jobs,” said Larsen. “Securing a Jones Act solution for Dakota Creek Industries has been a long-fought battle. I appreciate the coordination with Senator Cantwell, Senator Sullivan and Rep. Don Young as we have worked non-stop to find avenues to save hundreds of jobs on the line.” Rep. Larsen has been a strong advocate for Dakota Creek Industries. Larsen has successfully included the waiver twice in related House-passed legislation. The Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 has now passed in the Senate and in the House of Representatives. The legislation will now move to the president’s desk for signature. ###
11.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – From November 16-19, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, traveled to Halifax to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Halifax International Security Forum. Throughout the Assembly, Rep. Larsen met with his NATO counterparts to discuss issues including protecting elections from foreign interference, security challenges in the Arctic, science and technology investments and international trade. Additionally, members had the opportunity to hear about commitments on defense spending. “At its heart, the NATO alliance is about nations of similar values working together to confront and deter shared threats. It is not a protection racket,” said Larsen. “While NATO members have committed to spending two percent of GDP on defense by 2024, no nation is ‘delinquent’ or owes money to the United States, as the president has suggested.” “Meeting with parliamentarians from other NATO member states was particularly valuable,” Larsen continued. “Our Baltic allies are investing in their own defense and the lethality of the alliance. And the Nordic nations are important partners and leaders in defense innovation. Earlier this year, Larsen sent a letter to President Trump underscoring the importance of Norway to the United States. ###
11.07.2018	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced Will Garrison, a student at Burlington-Edison High School, as the winner of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge. Garrison was inspired to create his app, CalcuMath, after playing a game in sixth grade called Math Bowling. The app aims to help users practice and learn math skills in a fun and engaging way. Washington state continues to be a leader in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) with more than 313,000 high school students and 165,000 two-year college students enrolled in Career and Technical Education programs. "CalcuMath helps the user practice their math skills and learn in a fun and engaging way," said Garrison. “The Congressional App Challenge has again shown the creativity of students from across Northwest Washington. I congratulate all of the students who participated in this year’s competition and our winner, Will Garrison, who tackled a pressing issue of how to better engage students in the critical STEM field,” said Larsen. This year’s app designs included Garrison's app to practice and learn math skills in a fun and engaging way; an app to make note taking easy; and an app to help determine how much to tip at a restaurant based on service experience and to help decide future restaurants to visit. As the Second District winner, Garrison will receive $250 in Amazon Web Services credits, and his app will be eligible to be on display in the U.S. Capitol building and, on the House of Representatives website. In 2016, Burlington-Edison High School senior Alexandria Kissas won with an app designed to help people organize multiple lists on their smart phones. The Congressional App Challenge is an annual competition that aims to help maintain U.S. competitiveness by proactively inspiring youth to pursue crucial STEM skills. ###
10.22.2018	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent the below letter to Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer on Growler operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. You can read the letter here. October 12, 2018 The Honorable Richard V. Spencer Secretary of the Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Washington, DC 20350-1000 Dear Secretary Spencer: I am writing with regard to Navy operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. I have heard from constituents about EA-18G operations at Ault Field and Outlying Field (OLF) Coupeville; some in support, some concerned. My support for Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, the sailors, families and the missions is steadfast. On September 28, 2018, the Navy released the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for EA-18G “Growler” Airfield Operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island Complex. The preferred alternative is Alternative 2A, consistent with information released earlier this year. Under Alternative 2A, the number of Growler aircraft at the base will increase by 36 and total Growler field carrier landing practice (FCLP) operations will increase to 29,600. Eighty percent of these FCLPs will occur at the OLF. This represents a significant increase in current levels of operations and a reversal of the historical distribution of FCLPs between the two airfields. This change in flight distribution will also lead to an increase in noise, particularly in Central Whidbey. To mitigate the impact of the change to Whidbey Island, I request a commitment from the Navy to a more sustainable distribution of FCLPs and additional mitigation measures, which were developed in consultation with state and local officials, as well as community leaders: Distribute FCLP flights more sustainably between the two airfields Under Alternative 2A, the authorized number of FCLPs at OLF Coupeville would increase 289% over the No Action Alternative, from 6,100 to 23,700. As the FEIS makes clear, this would greatly increase the amount of noise and the number of people impacted by noise in Central Whidbey. In communicating with my office, the Navy has pointed to the overall increase in flights as “consistent with past levels of airfield operations.” But since 1976, there have only been six years where FCLP operations at OLF Coupeville exceeded the number in the Preferred Alternative; most recently in 1992. In fact, the average annual number of FCLP operations at the OLF since 1976 is 12,925, or approximately 35 per day. I am concerned that 23,700 operations per year, or 65 per day, may not be sustainable for Central Whidbey. In addition, the annual percentage of total FCLPs conducted at the OLF has never exceeded 58%. I am aware that because of the set number of FCLPs required for training, any reduction in flights at OLF Coupeville leads to an increase in the number of FCLPs at Ault Field. This both increases noise in this area and disrupts other airfield operations. Based on my analysis of the historical level and distribution of flights, I believe shifting some of the proposed flights to Ault Field would be consistent with past use of the complex and a demonstration of the Navy’s commitment to the people of Central Whidbey to be a good neighbor. Therefore, I ask that the Navy find a distribution of FCLPs between the two airfields that is closer to the historical average and more sustainable for Central Whidbey while ensuring the necessary training occurs to fulfill all national security requirements. Fund chevron development research in the President’s budget request The FEIS correctly identifies chevron attachments for the F414 engine as a potential mitigation measure, although more research and testing are required before a final design can be implemented. Much of the funding for this research has traditionally been a Congressional add. Since the program office believes that “chevron seals are currently the best means of reducing engine noise,” I request that the President’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2020 include the necessary Research, Development, Test and Evaluation funding for further chevron development, approximately $12 million. Fund hush house construction in the President’s budget request Another possible mitigation measure is a hush house, which would allow engine run-ups to be conducted in a purpose-built hangar. The FEIS identifies a dramatic reduction in engine noise from these operations if a hush house is built. Presently, the 90 dB maximum noise level from an on-ground run-up extends beyond the installation boundary, and the 60 dB noise contour extends more than four miles from the tarmac. With construction of a hush house, this noise would be entirely confined to the base. I ask that the Navy include in the President’s Budget request for Fiscal Year 2020 sufficient funds for a military construction project to build a hush house at Ault Field. This would be consistent with existing precedent. When the hush house is built, NAS Whidbey Island will become the tenth installation in the Department of the Navy with a hush house. Additionally, there are deflectors, screens and other cheaper technologies which could be installed more rapidly to potentially reduce the impact of noise on communities surrounding Ault Field. Formalize the handshake agreement to minimize weekend flight operations According to community members, NASWI has long had an informal agreement with them to avoid weekend operations to the extent possible. This helps bring predictability to flight schedules, demonstrates the Navy’s commitment to be a good neighbor and is important for the economy in communities reliant on tourism. In speaking with local officials, formalizing this agreement was one of their top asks of the Navy as the Record of Decision approaches. I ask that the installation formalize the commitment to minimize weekend flight operations, with the mutual understanding that operational needs may supersede this agreement when necessary. Increase funding for Oak Harbor School District to expand classroom space In my conversations with the leadership from Oak Harbor School District, I have been struck by their commitment and enthusiasm for educating students from Navy families. Many instructors are themselves from Navy families. For them, ensuring students receive the highest quality education is a point of personal pride. Based on nationwide and Whidbey-specific formulas, the additional 628 Navy personnel are expected to bring 226 more students to Oak Harbor School District. The FEIS acknowledges that DoD Supplemental Impact Aid does not fully cover per-student costs, although I was successful in increasing appropriations for this program by $15 million in Fiscal Year 2019 appropriations. With 42 portable trailers already being used for classroom instruction across Oak Harbor School District, additional portables are not a realistic option to accommodate the incoming 226 students without sacrificing instructional quality. Therefore, I ask for a commitment that the Navy and the Office of Economic Adjustment will work with my office and the Oak Harbor School District to increase funding for building permanent classroom capacity across the district, with a focus on elementary schools. Conduct a more detailed analysis of the Navy’s impact on the local housing market The presence of the Navy increases home values on Whidbey Island. Sailors and families buy and rent property in the community; some even choose to retire here when they leave the service. However, the benefits of the Navy are not equally distributed across the island. In communities farther from the base, around OLF Coupeville, the impact of jet noise may be reducing home values. Last year, the Navy conducted a “Housing Requirement and Market Analysis” for Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and committed to repeating the study following publication of the FEIS. I request that the Navy conduct a thorough market analysis, which includes assessments of affordability and the Navy’s impact on sale and rental prices, disaggregated by airfield. Conduct real-time or near real-time noise monitoring The FEIS makes clear the advantages of using modeling to evaluate the impact of jet noise. It allows for comparison to other airfields and permits the Navy to simulate impacts of fifteen different scenarios. I still believe that this process could be supplemented with a program to conduct noise monitoring at points of interest in the community. Doing so would allow the Navy to better determine the impact on historic properties, identify any discrepancies between modeled noise levels for individual flights and actual noise, and help build confidence in the community with the Navy’s methodology. Work with Congress on establishing a similar program to the FAA Noise Mitigation Program, including sound insulation for private homes The FAA has a program to mitigate noise in homes affected by commercial aviation near airports. Properties within the 65 dB day-night average sound level (DNL) contour that have more than 45 dB DNL inside the home are eligible for sound insulation, installed at no cost to the homeowner. This may include replacing windows and doors, installing baffles in HVAC vents and other measures as necessary. The DoD has no similar program, and homes impacted by military aviation noise are not eligible for the FAA program, as the upgrades are funded by passenger fees. I believe the military should have a comparable program to install noise insulation at private homes affected by aviation noise, and I seek your commitment to work with me through the legislative process to establish such a program and identify a dedicated funding stream. I appreciate the Navy’s commitment to transparency and communication throughout this process. Extending public comment periods has allowed for more informed discussion about the proposed actions. The early release of the Preferred Alternative gave communities time to prepare for the FEIS. I look forward to your response to this letter in advance of the Record of Decision to better prepare my constituents for changes coming their way and demonstrate the Navy’s commitment to the Whidbey Island community. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District
10.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) led a letter from 177 members of Congress to Boeing Company and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW) calling on the two to work together in respecting the decision of the flight technicians in South Carolina who voted to join the IAMAW union earlier this year. “We have seen firsthand the benefits of a unionized workforce,” the Members wrote. “Unions make the workplace safer, more efficient and make the workforce stronger. Taking one step in the Everett or Renton plant proves this point. IAMAW is a critical part of Boeing’s achievement and will be a critical part of its continued success.” You can read the whole letter here. September 27, 2018 Dennis Muilenburg Robert Martinez, Jr. Chairman, President and CEO President The Boeing Company IAMAW 100 North Riverside 9000 Machinists Pl Chicago, IL 60606 Upper Marlboro, MD 20772 Dr. Muilenburg and Mr. Martinez, Jr: We are writing today to ask that the Boeing Company and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW) work together to respect the decision of the flight technicians in South Carolina who voted to join the IAMAW union earlier this year by a 104-65 vote. We have seen firsthand the benefits of a unionized workforce. Unions make the workplace safer, more efficient, and make the workforce stronger. Taking one step in the Everett or Renton plant proves this point. IAMAW is a critical part of Boeing’s achievement and will be a critical part of its continued success. In 1935, thirty-five Boeing production workers formed the local Machinists union, forever changing Boeing’s history. Boeing is now the most successful and largest aerospace company in the world. More than 10,000 Boeing-built airplanes are in service globally, which is almost half of all airplanes built by union hands in service in the world. Boeing’s success is not despite IAMAW but because of it. The Boeing Company was built by the same union the flight technicians at the South Carolina plant want to join. Therefore, we were concerned to hear Boeing is seeking to appeal the decision of the flight technicians and hope IAMAW and Boeing work together to resolve this matter.
10.01.2018	Washington, DC – Today, New Democrat Coalition Chair Jim Himes (CT-04); New Democrat Coalition Trade Task Force Co-Chairs Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05); and Ways & Means Committee Members Ron Kind (WI-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), and Terri Sewell (AL-07) released the following statement on the announced agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico to modernize the North American Free Trade Agreement: “We look forward to learning more about the agreement reached between the United States, Canada and Mexico late last night to modernize the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). We are eager to assess how this agreement compares to NAFTA updates included in the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement reached three years ago and how the changes position our economy and impact U.S. jobs. As we have said from the onset, New Democrats support updating NAFTA to reflect the modern trade issues of a 21st century economy. This administration will need bipartisan support to successfully push trade agreements through Congress and we look forward to engaging with them on this and other agreements.” ###
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement after voting for the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense and Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill. “The appropriations bill makes important investments in local communities and supports jobs in Washington state’s Second District. These investments will help small businesses grow, support the next generation workforce for the global economy and ease burdens for small businesses looking to work with the federal government,” said Larsen. “I am pleased to see recognition of the importance of Pell grants, apprenticeships and the Perkins Career and Technical Education (CTE) Program which help thousands of students in my district access affordable education and prepare them for the future of work. This next generation of workers will fill critical jobs in Washington’s Second District.” The bill includes the following appropriations to support Washington state communities: Supports the development of a global workforce: More than 165,000 two-year college students are enrolled in Career and Technical Education programs in Washington state. The appropriations bill provides $1.3 billion to support CTE programs and help prepare the next generation workforce for the global economy. Additionally, the budget increases the maximum Pell Grant awards by $100. These grants have supported more than 14,000 students in Washington’s Second District. Supports local small businesses: Procurement Technical Assistance Centers help small businesses work with the federal government. The appropriations bill adds $17.7 million above the budget request to help support and grow Washington state’s economy. Supports local military communities: Larsen successfully included $40 million for Impact Aid payments to schools that serve military students, like the Oak Harbor School District, with an additional $10 million for students with severe disabilities. This total level is a $15 million increase over last year. Supports local efforts to combat the opioid epidemic: About 600 people die each year in Washington state due to opioid overdose, and nearly 20 percent of all heroin-related deaths in Washington have occurred in Snohomish County. The appropriations bill provides more than $4 billion for behavioral health workforce training, prevention, treatment, surveillance, research and support for children and family programs. ###
09.26.2018	You can listen to Larsen’s remarks on the House Floor in support of the five-year FAA reauthorization bill here. WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, applauded the passage of the long-term, five-year Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill, H.R. 302. “Chairman Shuster, Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Member DeFazio and I have worked on long-term FAA reauthorization for nearly five years now,” said Larsen. “I am pleased we have come to a bipartisan and bicameral agreement to raise the bar on aviation safety, improve the experience for the traveling public, better prepare and diversify the aviation workforce, increase the global competitiveness of U.S. aerospace manufacturers and pave the way for advanced drone operations in U.S. airspace.” Some of the specific benefits for Washington state include: Aerospace manufacturing: More than 1,400 aerospace companies call Washington state home. The FAA reauthorization will streamline the FAA’s certification processes for aircraft and other aviation and aerospace products, allowing U.S. manufacturers to have newer and safer products to market faster. Supports the next generation aerospace workforce: According to the Boston Consulting Group, there are 25,000 unfilled STEM jobs in Washington state. The FAA reauthorization recognizes the importance of recruiting, training and developing the next generation of aviation workers. The bill includes the development of a task force at the FAA to develop recommendations on encouraging high school students to enroll in aviation manufacturing, maintenance and engineering apprenticeships, and creates two new grant programs to support pilot education and the recruitment of aviation maintenance workers. Increases safety for traveling public and employees: The bill mandates ten hours of rest for flight attendants, a requirement that has not been updated in two decades. The bill also includes language to address sexual harassment of employees, passengers and crew through open reporting and accountability. Supports innovation in aviation: Safety is, and must be, Congress’ number-one priority when it comes to the use of unmanned aircraft systems. The bill lays the groundwork for the safe and swift integration of drones into the national airspace and advanced drone operations, like package delivery. For years, Larsen has led the charge for long-term, comprehensive FAA reauthorization. In the 115th Congress, he has been at the helm of a series hearings exploring the needs of aviation stakeholders, including: growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, alleviating congestion and improving user experience at Sea-Tac and reforming aircraft certification to help U.S. manufactures better compete globally. “The United States has the biggest, most complex and busiest aviation system in the world,” said Larsen. “By enacting a long-term FAA reauthorization, the United States will remain the gold standard in aviation.” ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement on the passage of America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018. “Investing in the nation’s ports, channels, waterways and other critical infrastructure keeps the U.S. maritime system competitive, encourages new, good-paying maritime jobs and helps to ensure a heathy environment in the Pacific Northwest,” said Larsen. According to Washington’s Department of Commerce, the state’s maritime industry contributes more than $21 billion in gross business income and directly employs more than 69,500 people. Puget Sound ports export the second highest amount of agricultural and forest products in the U.S. In 2015, more than 17 million tons of containerized cargo and 25 million tons of bulk and break bulk cargo passed through Washington’s ports to or from foreign countries. “Small ports across the United States, like the ports of Skagit and Bellingham, create jobs and drive economic activity across various sectors from fishing and manufacturing, to shipbuilding and recreation,” said Larsen. Rep. Larsen successfully included language to significantly increase federal funding for the Puget Sound Adjacent Waters Restoration program (PSAW). “Federal funds to restore the Puget Sound’s tributaries, waters and shorelines have supported local projects like the Qwuloolt Estuary restoration in Marysville. These efforts ensure sites are protected for current and future generations,” said Larsen. The bill also includes funding to improve contaminated drinking water in underserved and disadvantaged communities, supports areas impacted by natural disasters to repair their drinking water systems and provides funds for monitoring, testing and replacement of school drinking water fountains containing lead. “This comprehensive water resources and infrastructure bill will support local community efforts to improve clean drinking water, encourage the use of hydropower and strengthen stormwater and wastewater infrastructure,” said Larsen. Earlier this year Larsen successfully shaped the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, the original House-passed version of today’s legislation. ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON—Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Congresswoman Ann Wagner (MO-02), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Financial Services Committee; and Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and House Armed Services Committee, today introduced the Global Small Business Network Act which would support the establishment of small business development centers internationally and promote international commerce. “Small business development centers in the United States assist local entrepreneurs in addressing challenges both managerial and technical and provide opportunity for country to country assistance to foreign governments in Latin America and the Caribbean that strengthen the small business environment across the world” said Congressman Castro. “The Global Small Business Network Act supports the establishment of small business development centers in Latin America and the Caribbean and extends the program into Southeast Asia, expanding the reach of American small businesses to fast-expanding markets in the Americas and Asia. Such a program would promote international commerce and improve entrepreneur communication. This bipartisan measure will also recognize the invaluable role in community building and job creation that small businesses provide, contributing to the economic success of our nation and our economic partners across the world.” “Southeast Asian markets are vital to the prosperity of our economy,” said Congresswoman Wagner. “Over 40,000 companies across the country export to ASEAN, and trade with ASEAN member states supports over 500,000 American jobs. I am thrilled to introduce this bipartisan legislation that mutually benefits the U.S.-ASEAN partnership; it will help small business owners here in the United States export to foreign markets and facilitate the growth of small businesses in Southeast Asia.” “Small business owners in Washington state where 40 percent of jobs are tied to trade, understand the importance of expanding the ability to export products and goods to foreign markets,” said Congressman Larsen. “This legislation will help ensure U.S. small businesses have a continued presence in Southeast Asia and will support local jobs across the U.S.” Specifically, the Global Small Business Network Act will: Enhance the ability of small businesses in the United States to export to foreign markets and take part in international commerce; Authorize $1 million for Small Business Network of the Americas and $1 million for the ASEAN Small Business Network; and Support economic security in partner countries by assisting countries in promoting small businesses and entrepreneurship. Small businesses across the United States have benefitted from access to technical assistance, regulatory guidance, and educational programs through small business development centers (SBDC) in the United States. The SBDC model has successfully been adopted in Central America, South America, and the Caribbean, through assistance from the Small Business Network of the Americas’ initiative funded through the Department of State. The Global Small Business Network Act would support and enhance this work to promote sustainable and inclusive development in the Americas that also has tangible benefits for small business owners’ in the United States. It would also expand the current State Department’s program to include Southeast Asia and emphasize connectivity between the United States and partner countries, through the network of small business development centers. Read the full text of the bill here. # # #
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced the launch of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge, an application competition for high school students. The competition, which runs through October 15 is open to high school students who live in or attend school in Washington’s Second Congressional District. Students may compete as individuals or in teams of up to four. Students can only enter the competition once. Students can create computer programs (or apps) written in any programming language, for any platform including desktop/PC, web and mobile. “Washington state continues to be a leader in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) with more than 313,000 high school students and 165,000 two-year college students enrolled in CTE programs,” said Larsen. “I have seen the creativity of students in classrooms across Northwest Washington first-hand and look forward to seeing that creativity come through in the submissions this year.” Students can sign up to participate here. Students can register as a team or individual until 9:00 p.m. PST on October 15 but are encouraged to register by September 10 to receive extra support and tips. Apps must be submitted by October 15. Winners will be honored by Rep. Larsen and might have their apps electronically displayed in the United States Capitol building. In 2016, Burlington-Edison High School senior Alexandria Kissas won with an app designed to help people organize multiple lists on their smart phones. Additional questions can be directed to Amanda Munger in Congressman Larsen’s Washington, office at Amanda.munger@mail.house.gov or 202-225-2605. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after voting for the Conference Report for the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “The final NDAA will strengthen military readiness, increase pay for servicemembers, help small businesses compete for defense contracts and spur innovative research to prepare for future conflicts,” said Larsen. Larsen successfully included provisions in the conference report that will benefit the Pacific Northwest. These include: research into reducing jet noise; financial support for universities performing defense-related research; and supporting schools that educate students from military families through Impact Aid. “I am pleased the bill was improved after it passed the House. Harmful anti-environmental riders were removed, the Everett-built KC-46A tanker is fully authorized and the required strategy for developing critical language skills has been strengthened. But it is not a perfect bill. The final NDAA did not include language to protect an important shipyard in Northwest Washington and still authorizes a potentially destabilizing lower-yield nuclear warhead. It also stripped a provision I secured in the House bill to establish a pilot program aimed at addressing combat-related infertility. I will continue to fight for these priorities on behalf of Washington’s Second District and the women and men in uniform.” ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Chair of the Friends of New Zealand Caucus, issued the below statement on the House passage of the Knowledgeable Innovators and Worthy Investors (KIWI) Act. “New Zealand is an important friend and partner of the United States. By passing the KIWI Act, Congress ensures our immigration policy reflects the value and importance of this relationship,” said Larsen. “Enabling New Zealand businesses and investors to access nonimmigrant visas will better facilitate trade and investment and help local economies across the U.S.” As early as 2013, Congressman Larsen and Chairman Brady called on the Judiciary Committee asking that the Committee extend trade and investor visas (E-1 and E-2) to New Zealand. On July 20, 2017, Congressman Issa and Congressman Larsen introduced the KIWI Act in the House. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after voting present on House Resolution 990, a politically-driven messaging opportunity regarding U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “I do not support abolishing U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). There are important reforms the Department should undertake, such as ending the policy of family separation and detention, but these changes must begin by addressing the broader concerns surrounding the administration’s immigration enforcement policies. “Congress should be focused on opportunities like the Keep Families Together Act and comprehensive immigration reform, not politically-driven messaging opportunities with no real solutions to address family separation. “The administration’s immigration policy of needless separation does not work, and is not reflective of the principles the U.S. should stand for. Congress must resist a zero tolerance policy, reunite families and remember what this country stands for. “We need to replace deterrence with compassion. We need to replace callousness with humanity. We need to replace talk of a border wall with more talk of the Statue of Liberty and the freedom she represents to everybody around the world. “The U.S. can better stand up for these words through immigration enforcement that prioritizes serious threats like violent criminals and threats to national security, not mothers and fathers bringing their children to the U.S. to escape violence and drug cartels. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to address reforming ICE in a broader context of immigration reform.” ###
07.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation that would amend the Specialty Crop Research Initiative to provide $2.5 million annually to support research for berry and grape crops. “Agriculture is a vital, thriving part of Washington state’s economy. The First Congressional District has more than 4,000 farms that supply restaurants, markets and our local communities. My bill gives small fruit farmers the resources they need to develop and implement new methods and strategies to remain competitive and continue sustaining our local communities. This small investment in our farmers will yield a plentiful bounty for the future,” said Congresswoman Suzan DelBene. “I have heard from folks across Washington’s Second District about the importance of research into small fruits to ensure the vitality of these important crops into the future,” said Larsen. “Providing funds to support this research will help ensure Washington state specialty crop farmers, like the berry farmers in Skagit County, have the tools they need to foster future innovation and prosperity for small fruits in Northwest Washington.” “The Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research welcomes and appreciates the efforts of Congresswoman DelBene and Congressman Larsen in supporting berry, grape and wine research funding through the Specialty Crops Research Initiative (SCRI). Production research, food science, pest and disease management are critical keys to our continued viability and competitiveness in the global market. As a research consortium dedicated to enhancing the sustainability and profitability of our industries, her advocacy on behalf of the Center is greatly valued by our stakeholders in the Pacific Northwest,” said Philip Gütt, Program Coordinator for the NW Small Fruits Industry Consortium.
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s meeting with President Putin in Helsinki on July 16: “Last week I said that President Trump should cancel his summit with President Putin because no president should meet with a foreign leader unless they are capable of standing up for the United States. “After the president’s humiliating performance at the Summit, my response is simple: the U.S. cannot continue to come across as weak against Russia. “President Trump refused to condemn Russia for any wrongdoing, giving President Putin a pass for meddling in the 2016 election, annexing Crimea, occupying eastern Ukraine, conducting nerve agent attacks in the United Kingdom and other adventurism. “Instead, President Trump went out of his way to lay blame on both sides for the deterioration of the U.S.-Russia relationship and denied findings by the U.S. intelligence community of Russian intervention in the 2016 election on his behalf. “I am glad there were no formal agreements, because any deal would likely have been disastrous. The president was unprepared and should not have met with President Putin. Moreover, I am deeply troubled by what may have been discussed during their private meeting. “President Trump seems far more fixated on his personal relationship with President Putin than using U.S. power to affect change in Russian behavior. This Summit once again proved President Trump gives friends and allies the cold shoulder while a dictator gets a warm embrace.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in advance of President Trump’s planned meeting with President Putin in Helsinki on July 16: “U.S. presidents have long met with their Russian counterparts to assert vital national interests and I support diplomatic engagement with Russia. The list of serious foreign policy issues to address with President Putin is long: Russian interference in the 2016 election, illegal annexation of Crimea, occupation of eastern Ukraine, support for a coup attempt in Montenegro, chemical attacks in the United Kingdom and more. “These outrageous issues merit hard-nosed confrontation. If I were confident in the president’s ability to deliver a forceful rebuke to President Putin I would strongly support their upcoming meeting. But, the president has repeatedly denied Russian interference in the 2016 election, hinted at recognizing the occupation of Crimea and generally treated President Putin with the utmost deference. I do not expect a change in President Trump’s behavior. He will continue to give friends and allies the cold shoulder while a dictator gets a warm embrace. “No president should meet with a foreign leader unless they are capable of standing up for the United States. For this reason, President Trump should cancel his upcoming summit with President Putin.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON—On Tuesday, July 10, House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA), and 42 other Democrats from the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees released the following statement on President Trump’s attendance at the NATO Summit and his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who released the statement are Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Rep. Brad Sherman (D-CA), Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA), Rep. William R. Keating (D-MA), Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA), Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Rep. Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Rep. Dina Titus (D-NV), Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Rep. Bradley S. Schneider (D-IL), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), and Rep. Ted W. Lieu (D-CA). The members of the Armed Services Committee who released the statement are Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Rep. Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Rep. James R. Langevin (D-RI), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), Rep. Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Rep. Seth Moulton, (D-MA), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Rep. Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Rep. A. Donald McEachin (D-VA), Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD), Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY), and Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA): “President Trump must not seek to undo the work that generations of American men and women have done to help defend and uphold democratic values throughout the transatlantic region. Europe returned from the devastation of the Second World War to prosperity largely due to the North Atlantic community’s commitments to its shared values and to collective defense. “The signals regarding potential outcomes that are coming from this administration in advance of the President’s upcoming trip to Europe are deeply concerning. Without question, in his upcoming meetings with NATO and President Putin, President Trump must continue to affirm America’s commitments to our allies, especially Article V of the Atlantic Treaty. He must not praise, condone, or abet any Russian efforts to undermine the sovereignty or democracy of any of our allies and partners. He must take a genuine stand against Russia’s cyber campaigns and its efforts to interfere in our elections. “President Trump must recognize the importance that our forward military presence and joint exercises play in deterring Russia and ensuring military readiness. He must not weaken this posture or suspend or cancel these crucial activities, nor emulate Russian propaganda attempting to discredit them. “He must stand up for Ukraine’s sovereignty over Crimea and against the illegal occupation of Ukrainian territory and maintain sanctions until the conditions in the law are met. He must follow the law passed every year through the National Defense Authorization Act prohibiting military-to-military cooperation with President Putin. And he must continue to stand by NATO’s open door policy on the admittance of new members. The substance and symbolism of these upcoming meetings will matter. The future of the Atlantic alliance and the international order, which has helped make the world safer and more prosperous is at stake.”
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement on the meeting of heads of state and government at the 2018 NATO Summit: “At its heart, the NATO alliance is about nations of similar values working together to confront and deter shared threats. It is not a protection racket. While NATO members should fulfill their commitments to spend two percent of GDP on defense by 2024, no nation is ‘delinquent’ or owes money to the United States, as the president has suggested. I have written to the president about how this fixation on the two percent commitment demonstrates a willful misrepresentation of both NATO’s mission and how it is funded. “The concern over the president’s rhetoric on defense spending is not limited to conversations around the NATO Summit. My senior military aide recently returned from Lithuania Latvia and Estonia. The message he heard throughout this trip is there is deep concern the President is threatening trans-Atlantic stability and security. “This is the same message I heard last month when I was a delegate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Poland. “A fractured NATO would benefit neither the United States nor Europe; it would only benefit President Putin.”
07.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group, issued the below statement regarding the tariffs against Chinese products which went into effect last night. “In a tit-for-tat trade agenda, it is the local hard-working folks who feel the brunt impacts on their lives. We will begin to see these effects due to retaliatory tariffs against U.S. products. “This administration’s tariff policy threatens local jobs and the economic stability of Washington state, the most trade dependent state in the country. “There are better ways to address the legitimate concerns about the trade balance with China. One way is through bills like the bipartisan Trade Authority Protection Act to impose Congressional Review of trade actions by the administration.” ###
07.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement on the U.S. Chamber of Commerce “Tariffs are the Wrong Approach” report: “Washington state is the most trade-dependent state in the country,” said Larsen. “I do not agree with the president’s approach to target China, Canada, Mexico and the European Union with additional tariffs and risk retaliation. Putting forward tariff proposals that threaten local jobs and the economic stability of businesses across the U.S. is not the right choice. Unfortunately, the victims of this tit-for-tat approach are local companies and the hard-working folks across Washington state. This report highlights the need for Congress to act and pass bills like the bipartisan Trade Authority Protection Act to impose Congressional Review of trade actions by the administration.” The Chamber report outlines the state by state impacts of the administration’s new tariffs policy. Washington state is the most impacted state with more than 945,000 jobs supported by trade. The president’s new tariffs against Canada, China, Mexico and the European Union threaten more than $6 billion of Washington state exports. ###
06.29.2018	(Washington, D.C.) – Led by U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), a bipartisan group of Congressional members representing Western Washington wrote to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao this week to urge her to follow through on her repeated promises to follow Congressional direction and approve federal investments affecting projects like Sound Transit’s Lynnwood Link Extension. The 8.5 mile light rail project would connect King and Snohomish Counties, helping address concerns over increasingly bad traffic congestion and continued regional growth with an estimated one million new residents expected in Puget Sound by 2040. Sound Transit first received approval for the project in 2013, kicking off a multi-step process to secure federal investments. But despite Congress making investments available in the two most recent spending bills, the Department of Transportation has yet to allocate funding to move the Lynnwood Link Extension forward. In their letter, the members pointed to Secretary Chao’s previous commitments to make progress, writing: “For over a year at numerous committee hearings you have said DOT would follow the law, adhere to the will of Congress, and execute CIG grant agreements that have received federal funding. Congress has provided clear direction on the CIG program in the last two fiscal years…” The members continued, noting that the region is doing its part and picking up the vast majority of the costs for the Lynnwood Link Extension through local investments: “As a result, the federal share of the Lynnwood Link Extension is just 36 percent. We would argue this is exactly the type of local commitment the Administration is seeking.” The members’ letter included an attachment with recent letters to Secretary Chao from a variety of stakeholders, from the business community to transit agencies. Access all of the letters HERE. In addition to Murray, signees of the letter include Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Reps. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA). ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, a bipartisan, bicameral group of Washington state lawmakers sent a letter to Energy Secretary Rick Perry, urging the Energy Department to maintain the place of the Power Marketing Administrations (PMAs), including the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), within the department’s reporting structure. The letter to Secretary Perry was signed by U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Denny Heck (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA). Recently, the Energy Department established a new organizational structure, in which PMAs would report to the Assistant Secretary for Electricity rather than the Deputy Energy Secretary. This decision changes a successful reporting structure that has been in place since 1993, one which has allowed PMAs like BPA in the Pacific Northwest to consistently produce quality and affordable electricity service, as well as effectively respond to emergencies. In the letter, the members of Congress wrote, “We urge you to reconsider this decision and to maintain the elevation of PMA issues to the senior leadership of the Department. While we respect your authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act to delegate various functions, the long-standing arrangement of the PMAs reporting directly to the Deputy Secretary has worked well. We are concerned that these changes could lead to decisions that are not in the best interest of Pacific Northwest ratepayers.” The members also stressed the importance of BPA power to communities throughout the Pacific Northwest, and the importance of having a direct line of communication to the most senior levels of the Department of Energy. “For many of our constituents, Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) rates and personnel are the most important variables in the quality and affordability of electric service in their communities,” the members continued. “BPA’s high-voltage transmission network is the backbone of the electric grid in the Pacific Northwest. In times of economic distress, such as the power markets crisis in 2000-2001, dedicated attention to the PMAs from the most senior levels of the Department is essential.” BPA provides affordable carbon-free power to more than 13 million consumers in the Pacific Northwest, producing roughly 28 percent of the electric power used throughout the region. BPA’s transmission network makes up three-quarters of the region’s high-voltage transmission system. The full letter to can be found HERE and below. The Honorable Rick Perry Secretary U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Avenue SW Washington, D.C. 20585 Dear Secretary Perry: We write to you with concerns about the recent decision by the Department to change a practice in place for more than two decades and have the Power Marketing Administrations (PMAs) report directly to the Assistant Secretary for Electricity rather than the Deputy Secretary. We urge you to reconsider this decision and to maintain the elevation of PMA issues to the senior leadership of the Department. While we respect your authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act to delegate various functions, the long-standing arrangement of the PMAs reporting directly to the Deputy Secretary has worked well. We are concerned that these changes could lead to decisions that are not in the best interest of Pacific Northwest ratepayers. Many of us have written to the Administration to oppose provisions in the last two budget requests to divest PMA transmission facilities and abandon cost-based rates. Similarly, under the previous Administration, many of us opposed a proposal to reorient the PMAs as a test-bed for various purposes beyond their statutory missions. The unifying message in this Congressional oversight has been not to fix something that isn’t broken. We deliver the same message today. For many of our constituents, Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) rates and personnel are the most important variables in the quality and affordability of electric service in their communities. BPA’s high-voltage transmission network is the backbone of the electric grid in the Pacific Northwest. In times of economic distress, such as the power markets crisis in 2000-2001, dedicated attention to the PMAs from the most senior levels of the Department is essential. In recommending this reorganization, Deputy Secretary Brouillette highlighted the commonality of mission between the PMAs and the Office of Electricity, stating in a May 3, 2018, memorandum that the “mission and function of the PMAs” align with OE’s “mission of ensuring a resilient, reliable, and flexible energy system.” While we agree that these missions may be complementary, we believe there are important reasons to look beyond the commonality of delivery of electricity. The PMAs were created as regional entities with unique statutory authorizations and obligations to serve local communities at cost-based rates. Since their creation, their missions and responsibilities have been amended by subsequent regional-focused legislation, such as the Federal Columbia River Transmission System Act and the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act. The latter law, for example, removed the Department’s authority to review BPA rate proposals before their submission for limited review by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Among the requirements of these various statutes are that the PMA Administrators run the agencies in a business-like manner with considerable operating and financial autonomy. This autonomy has resulted in stable wholesale electric generation and transmission policy in the Pacific Northwest and elsewhere across various Administrations. Since 1993, the delegated authority related to the PMAs has rested largely with the Deputy Secretary. Significantly, in 2001, Secretary Abraham offered a succinct reason why he planned to keep that delegation in place: “I understand this reporting arrangement has worked very well in bringing PMAs’ time-sensitive concerns to the attention of the highest levels in the Department.” We encourage robust cooperation between the PMAs and OE, as well as other offices within the Department. However, our collective expectation is that major PMA decisions, including the hiring of Administrators, will receive direct attention at the highest level of the Department: either with yourself or with your deputy. We therefore strongly urge you to reconsider this reorganization. Perhaps increasing the role of OE in routine communication and consultation with the PMAs on the behalf of the Deputy Secretary, while leaving to yourself or the Deputy Secretary core decisions about personnel and other key policies, would be a constructive alternative. Further, we look forward to greater consultation than we have received to date on an appropriate arrangement. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ###
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) sent a letter to Secretary of the Department of Transportation (DOT) Elaine Chao, slamming the Department for failing to finalize a rule requiring drug and alcohol testing for safety-sensitive workers at certificated foreign aircraft repair stations who perform extensive maintenance and repair work on U.S.-registered commercial aircraft. “The only thing consistent about the FAA’s oversight of these FAA-certificated facilities—which number more than 700 abroad—is its inconsistency, leaving far too many stones unturned. We therefore are utterly confused by and disappointed with the FAA’s failure to finalize a rule requiring that workers at foreign repair stations be subject to screening for alcohol and controlled substance use—just as workers at U.S. facilities are—despite two explicit Congressional mandates directing the FAA to act,” DeFazio and Larsen wrote. According to a 2009 DOT Inspector General (IG) report, the FAA’s oversight of foreign repair stations has “significant weaknesses” and is “not robust enough to ensure that outsourced repairs meet FAA standards.” A DOT IG report in 2013 found that the FAA’s oversight “lacks the rigor needed to identify deficiencies and verify that they have been addressed.” In fact, in reports and Congressional testimony dating back to at least 2003, the Inspector General has found major deficiencies in the FAA’s oversight of foreign repair stations that perform maintenance on U.S. airlines’ fleets. In response to the DOT IG’s findings, Congress has twice passed provisions directing the FAA to issue a rule requiring that safety-sensitive employees at FAA-certificated foreign repair stations undergo drug and alcohol testing. FAA has failed to finalize that rule. DeFazio and Larsen wrote that it is unacceptable that the FAA has abdicated its responsibility to the more than 800 million passengers who fly on U.S. airlines each year. Until this rule is complete, they will continue pressing DOT to act and will pursue any legislative solutions available that can address the Department’s inaction. Full text of the letter can be found below. June 28, 2018 The Honorable Elaine L. Chao Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Chao: We write to express our serious concerns regarding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) oversight of overseas aircraft repair stations. The FAA’s oversight of foreign repair stations, for many reasons, “lacks the rigor needed to identify deficiencies and verify that they have been addressed,” your Department’s Inspector General reported in 2013. The FAA’s oversight of repair stations has “significant weaknesses” and is “not robust enough to ensure that outsourced repairs meet FAA standards,” the Inspector General said in 2009. There are many “challenges in [the] FAA’s ability to effectively monitor the increase in outsourcing [of repairs to foreign repair stations],” the Inspector General said in 2007. In fact, in reports and Congressional testimony dating back to at least 2003, the Inspector General has found deficiency after deficiency in the FAA’s oversight of foreign repair stations that perform maintenance on U.S. airlines’ fleets. The only thing consistent about the FAA’s oversight of these FAA-certificated facilities—which number more than 700 abroad—is its inconsistency, leaving far too many stones unturned. We therefore are utterly confused by and disappointed with the FAA’s failure to finalize a rule requiring that workers at foreign repair stations be subject to screening for alcohol and controlled substance use—just as workers at U.S. facilities are—despite two explicit Congressional mandates directing the FAA to act. In 2012, Congress directed the FAA to propose a rule requiring that safety-sensitive employees at certificated foreign repair stations undergo drug and alcohol testing. It was not until 2014 that the FAA finally issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in response to that mandate, yet the agency took no further action. Accordingly, we pushed a provision directing the FAA to finalize this rule, which was included in the FAA Extension, Safety, and Security Act of 2016.To date, we can discern no apparent progress in finalizing this rule. As you know, foreign repair stations perform extensive work on U.S.-registered aircraft each year. In fact, a single airline has acknowledged reliance on as many as 100 foreign facilities for its safety-sensitive maintenance work. It is therefore unacceptable that the FAA has flagrantly disregarded multiple Congressional mandates and abdicated its responsibility to the more than 800 million passengers who fly on U.S. airlines each year. For many years, we have pressed the FAA to move quickly to reduce the great disparity between these security requirements for U.S.-based and foreign repair stations. Failure to reduce these security vulnerabilities at foreign facilities poses immense risks to the safety of the flying public. We urge you to take swift action to finalize this critical rule. Until this rule is complete, be advised that we will continue pressing your Department to act and will pursue any legislative solutions available that can address your Department’s inaction. Thank you for your immediate attention to this matter. Sincerely, PETER DeFAZIO RICK LARSEN Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Aviation cc: The Honorable Daniel K. Elwell Acting Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration —30—
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Co-Chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee sent a letter to President Trump today following the president’s letter to Norwegian Prime Minister Solberg. “As a co-chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I read your June 19 letter to Norwegian Prime Minister Solberg with great concern. I share your desire to see all NATO member states meet their goal of spending 2 percent of GDP on defense, but believe your needlessly provocative letter omitted key facts. “Norway’s importance cannot be expressed in a single number. Norwegian servicemembers have fought side-by-side with U.S. forces in Afghanistan and flown combat missions over Libya. Norwegian companies also make high quality equipment U.S. servicemembers rely on. Norway further contributes to U.S. national security by being a world leader in development assistance,” Larsen wrote. You can read the whole letter here. June 28, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: As a co-chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I read your June 19 letter to Norwegian Prime Minister Solberg with great concern. I share your desire to see all NATO member states meet their goal of spending 2 percent of GDP on defense, but believe your needlessly provocative letter omitted key facts. At the 2014 Wales Summit, NATO member states committed to spending 2 percent of GDP on defense by 2024. Your letter neglects to mention this date, suggesting that Norway is currently failing to uphold its commitment. You also did not mention that NATO members further committed to spending 20 percent of their defense budgets on equipment; Norway currently spends 25.5 percent. This does not excuse Norway from its other obligations, but provides badly-needed context. You are not alone in your support for ensuring allies meet their fiscal commitments. Earlier this year at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, representatives from NATO member states reaffirmed these commitments, declaring: “[the] threat environment makes it even more necessary that nations increase defence expenditure in real terms as GDP grows and move towards the guideline of spending 2% GDP for defence by 2024, increase annual investments to 20% or more of total defence expenditures, and meet NATO agreed guidelines for deployability and sustainability.” As you noted, some of Norway’s equipment spending is on U.S. made products like the F-35 and P-8. U.S. companies face international competition in the defense industry. American workers would likely be upset if your unnecessarily combative language led allies to seek different suppliers. I also hope you understand that Norway’s importance cannot be expressed in a single number. Norwegian servicemembers have fought side-by-side with U.S. forces in Afghanistan and flown combat missions over Libya. Norwegian companies also make high quality equipment U.S. servicemembers rely on. Norway further contributes to U.S. national security by being a world leader in development assistance. The U.S. and Norway share a long history of friendship, rooted in support for democracy and respect for human rights. More recently, this bond has been strengthened by a common threat. Russia has violated both countries’ sovereignty, simulating attacks against defense sites in Norway and intervening in the 2016 Presidential election in support of your candidacy. You wrote that “it will… become increasingly difficult to justify to American citizens why some countries continue to fail to meet our shared collective security requirements.” If this sentence is a veiled threat to reduce U.S. commitment to a NATO ally, it is written in extraordinarily poor judgment. But if you are genuine in seeking to better explain to the American people Norway’s contributions to collective security, I hope my letter may serve as some assistance. Finally, it is my expectation that a strong message will emerge from the upcoming NATO summit: resolute opposition to Russian adventurism in Crimea and the Donbass and unity in the face of election meddling. At your subsequent meeting with President Putin, you should convey this message forcefully and accurately while emphasizing the strong bipartisan support in the U.S. for sanctions imposed in response to Russian provocations. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District CC: James N. Mattis, Secretary of Defense
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement on today’s Supreme Court decision about Janus v. AFSCME. “Organized labor put food on my table and clothes on my back. My father was a union guy and he, along with others, helped build the U.S. and raise the country’s labor standards. “The entire workforce benefits when unions bargain collectively. Today’s Supreme Court decision is a step backwards and will hurt working families who are trying to ensure a better future for their children.” ###
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement following the Navy’s announcement of a preferred alternative that will be released in the upcoming final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for EA-18G Growler airfield operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). Under this alternative, there will be 118 Growler aircraft at NASWI, and field carrier landing practice (FCLP) would be distributed with 20 percent of FCLPs at Ault Field and 80 percent at Outlying Field (OLF) Coupeville. “The announcement of the Navy’s preferred alternative represents a significant increase in both flights and noise, particularly for areas around the outlying field in Coupeville. “I will be demanding swift answers from the Navy on this departure from the historical distribution of planes and flight patterns at NASWI. I will be asking why less extreme distributions were rejected, if the Navy is willing to commit to mitigation efforts and specifics on how the Navy conducted its noise monitoring. “I am concerned by the magnitude of change this action would represent for Whidbey Island communities. My constituents deserve more information and answers to our questions. I am committed to getting those answers. “The Navy must answer questions about its decision-making process and impact on the local community. I expect open communication, transparency and a willingness to collaborate on measures to mitigate these impacts going forward.” ###
06.26.2018	Remarks by Congressman Rick Larsen Aviation Subcommittee Hearing “Commercial Space Transportation Regulatory Reform: Stakeholder Perspectives” June 26, 2018 Click here to view remarks Thank you Chairman LoBiondo for calling today’s hearing on commercial space transportation. It has been two years since the Subcommittee convened a hearing on commercial space. Since that time, the U.S. has experienced tremendous growth and innovation in the industry. The economic footprint of this segment of the aerospace industry is significant. According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the U.S. space industry represents about $158 billion, which is just shy of half of the global space economy estimated at $345 billion, according to 2016 figures. The U.S. is not alone, however. It is not the only nation making significant advances in commercial space. Last year, I visited the Paris Air Show, where the role of commercial space itself was prevalent as well. Companies across Europe represented at the Show appeared to be thriving. And New Zealand itself is developing its own space industry. So it is critical that we ensure that the U.S. and its companies remain competitive on the international stage in commercial space, just as they have in traditional aviation for decades. Commercial space transportation has opened the door to a wide host of new applications for satellite services and space research. Some companies are inching closer to providing personal spaceflight. So, this is not only exciting from a national perspective, but from a local one as well. This growth supports more than 200,000 aerospace jobs across the nation. Notably, more than 136,000 folks who make up the aerospace workforce call Washington state home. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington state employs aerospace engineers at 5.7 times the national average and has the highest density of aerospace engineers in the U.S. Snohomish County, which is part of the district I represent, is home to the state’s second-largest concentration of aerospace jobs, with more than 43,000, nearly 44,000 in aerospace manufacturing. According to our state’s Department of Commerce, more than three dozen space-related companies are part of Washington state’s space cluster, including companies represented here today like Blue Origin, SpaceX, Spaceflight Industries, Boeing and of course many others. Pioneering, innovative research and development in the state is driven by two world-class universities, a national research lab and groundbreaking R&D teams. In addition we have companies that are NASA suppliers as well for the Orion, Starliner and SpaceX BFR spacecraft. So, we’ve got a lot riding on commercial space in Washington state. And before I go further I do want to take the opportunity to introduce one of our witnesses, Audrey Powers, who is here today to represent Blue Origin in Kent, Washington. Blue Origin supports a growing ecosystem of commercial space suppliers in manufacturing and services in our state, and our country and the world. So I’d like to say welcome to Ms. Powers. FAA reports launch licenses are in an upward trend, and are expected to continue over the next decade. Since the first FAA-licensed launch in 89, there have been 278 licensed commercial space launches. Nearly one-quarter of these have occurred in the last five years alone. In fact, a record 23 FAA-licensed launches occurred last year. It is also vital for national security for this segment of the aerospace industry to remain strong and competitive. The promise of commercial space is endless. But safety still must remain the number one priority. The President has directed the FAA to overhaul its launch license and re-entry regulations in an aggressive one-year timeframe. We have heard from some stakeholders that FAA’s regulations were drafted 25 years ago and are in fact in desperate need of a re-write. But, we have also heard from folks who caution safety might be compromised if the FAA is forced to “streamline” its regulatory framework in just 12 months. It was just four months ago this Subcommittee convened to discuss the state of aviation safety. I mentioned then, and it bears repeating now, the U.S. has the safest aviation system in the world. Any effort to reform regulations must not rollback safety requirements. We have to keep in mind that more than 2.5 million passengers fly through U.S. airspace each day. With an increasing number of spaceports and launches on the horizon, we have to ensure that our airspace remains safe. This Subcommittee’s job is to ensure the FAA has the authority and resources needed to make the system even safer. Maintaining our unparalleled safety through new integration into the system requires all aviation stakeholders be at the table. That said as well, I am pleased to have Captain Tim Canoll from ALPA here with us this morning to discuss the potential effects that this booming industry is having on existing legacy aviation users. I also hope to learn from our other witnesses why and what reforms the FAA's commercial space regulations are needed and whether there are concerns regarding the Administration's approach. It is too soon to know what the FAA will propose next year. While flexibility is necessary so the industry can continue to grow, I trust this Subcommittee will keep a close eye on any efforts that undercut safety. Again, Mr. Chairman, thank you so much, I look forward to hearing from our witnesses. And Mr. Chairman I would ask for unanimous consent that a white paper titled “Addressing the Challenges to Aviation from Evolving Space Transportation” prepared by airline pilots international be entered into the record. Congressman LoBiondo: Without objection, so ordered Congressman Larsen: Thank you Mr. Chairman ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the below statement applauding the Boeing-U.S. Air Force schedule for the delivery of the KC-46A tankers. “The best aerospace workers in the world are the women and men at Boeing’s Everett factory. The delivery of the first KC-46A tanker to the U.S. Air Force will be an important step in ensuring our military has the tools they need to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Larsen. “The new tanker will enhance readiness in the aerial refueling and strategic airlift missions and offer better protection in a wider range of threat environments.” Earlier this year, Larsen led a letter requesting authorization and appropriations for the procurement of 18 KC-46A aerial refueling tankers in 2019. Larsen also successfully included an amendment in the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) supporting an accelerated delivery schedule. ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today issued the below statement after successfully bringing the 2026 FIFA World Cup to North America: “The Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup not only unites billions of fans from around the world, but also generates significant tourism and economic growth,” said Larsen. “As an avid soccer fan, I am excited the 2026 Cup is coming to the United States, Canada and Mexico. The Cup is an opportunity to put aside differences and for folks to come together to celebrate sportsmanship, teamwork and friendship.” Earlier this year, Rep. Larsen joined Rep. Darin LaHood (IL-18) on a House Resolution supporting efforts to bring the 2026 FIFA World Cup to North America. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement ahead of voting for the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018. “WRDA makes robust investments in the nation’s ports, channels, waterways and other critical infrastructure to keep the U.S. maritime system competitive. Maintaining the regular two-year reauthorization of this legislation is critical to the nation’s economy, will encourage new, good-paying maritime jobs and help to ensure a heathy environment in the Pacific Northwest,” said Larsen. According to Washington’s Department of Commerce, the state’s maritime industry contributes more than $21 billion in gross business income and directly employs more than 69,500 people. Puget Sound ports export the second highest amount of agricultural and forest products in the U.S. In 2015, more than 17 million tons of containerized cargo and 25 million tons of bulk and break bulk cargo passed through Washington’s ports to or from foreign countries. “Small ports like the Ports of Skagit and Bellingham create jobs and drive economic activity across various sectors from fishing and manufacturing, to shipbuilding and recreation. Maintaining and building infrastructure at these ports is critical for development,” said Larsen. Congressman Larsen also successfully included an amendment to improve available resources for the Puget Sound Adjacent Waters Restoration program (PSAW). Specifically, it doubles the per-project funding cap to $10 million and raises the overall authorization level an additional $20 million. Local projects that could be impacted by WRDA and Army Corps of Engineers’ funding: · The Swinomish Channel, located in La Conner and managed by the Port of Skagit, needs a new cycle of dredging. · Goat Island Jetty needs to be raised to reduce sedimentation in the Swinomish Chanel and future dredging costs. · The Squalicum Waterway, near the Port of Bellingham, needs maintenance dredging due to heavy sedimentation. Without it, businesses near the Squalicum Waterway risk losing important shipping access. · The Port of Seattle Harbor Navigation Improvement project will help deepen and widen the channel to improve commercial navigation efficiency in the East and West Waterways. · Expediting the feasibility study for the Port of Tacoma Harbor navigation project to assist with pre-construction planning, design and engineering phases. ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement on Washington state insurance companies’ proposed premium increases for 2019. “Washington state leads nationwide in expanding access for high quality, comprehensive health insurance. Actions by the administration and some of my colleagues in Congress to undermine the Affordable Care Act and Washington state’s efforts in making sure health care is affordable are unacceptable. Washingtonians should not be forced to pay more for health care because of bad policies pushed by this administration. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to help Washington state’s most vulnerable communities by implementing A Better Deal on health care, which includes protecting Medicare and Medicaid. I will also prioritize increased access and lower costs of health care, including lowering the cost of prescription drugs by allowing Medicare to negotiate drugs prices and demanding full transparency of excessive drug price increases.” ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement following his vote in support of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 351-66: “The NDAA makes important investments in national security, and includes important provisions I introduced to support military families and spur innovative research in the House-passed legislation. “While these are positive investments, there are still some concerning issues that will need to be addressed. As written, the NDAA authorizes the development of destabilizing and unnecessary low-yield nuclear weapons, which I have opposed, and misses an opportunity to develop a smart strategy to more proactively compete with China. “I appreciate the hard work of my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee on this bipartisan bill, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to get this over the finish line." ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today introduced legislation to fill a critical gap in workforce training opportunities through online workforce training grants. “U.S. workers are no longer competing with folks from down the street, but with people around the world to develop and produce the best products and services at the best value. Congress needs to invest in better preparing the U.S. workforce for the global economy,” said Larsen. “The Online Job Training Act complements existing workforce training options and will allow folks who may not have the opportunity to access in person training resources, like working parents and those with limited transportation access, to re-enter the workforce. This is good for Washington state jobs and local economies across the U.S.” The Online Job Training Act would amend the Workforce Investment and Opportunity Act by adding an online workforce training grant program. The program would provide $50 million in National Online Workforce Training Grants available in Fiscal Years 2019-2029. The ability to train people online is critical as the future of work continues to evolve. According to the World Economic Forum, technology changes, including artificial intelligence and robotics, learning evolution and talent mobility are the key factors that will impact the future of work. “This legislation will help folks further their digital knowledge in an age where more and more jobs require computer and technical skills,” said Larsen. Funds will be awarded on a competitive basis to eligible federal, state, local, tribal and private entities. These include educational institutions, community-based organizations, nonprofit organizations, state or local governments which provide online workforce training. You can read the full bill here. ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement after voting for S.2155, to provide regulatory relief for Washington state’s community banks and local credit unions, and encourage a better banking experience for Washingtonians. “While the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act is not perfect, this bill provides a measured approach and brings much needed relief for community banks and credit unions across the Second District. I voted for the bill because it will help streamline financial services for Washington state consumers, small businesses and the community-based financial institutions that serve them. “Protecting Washington state consumers is a priority of mine when evaluating financial legislation. I heard from local financial institutions about how this bill will help Washington state community banks and credit unions to better serve customers by addressing concerns from cyber threats, providing tools for consumers to prevent fraud and identity theft, limiting the inclusion of inaccurate medical debt for veterans and equipping banks to combat elder financial abuse,” said Larsen. “The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act is a positive step for North Coast Credit Union and its members. By easing regulatory burdens on smaller institutions, this legislation will allow for a more consumer-focused approach to business, improve our ability to directly invest in the community and help us provide a higher-quality service to our members,” said Marilyn Brink, CEO North Coast Credit Union. “The Community Bankers of Washington greatly appreciate the support of Congressman Rick Larsen in getting the bipartisan Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act over the finish line and to the President’s desk for signature,” said John Collins, President of the Community Bankers of Washington. “This legislation supports Washington’s community banks and will help spur greater consumer access to credit and business lending in Main Street communities nationwide.” “Coastal Community Bank thanks Congressman Larsen for voting yes on 2155. The passage of this bill will help the communities we both serve. For Coastal, the increased access to capital will allow us to increase our small business lending, the easing of appraisal requirements will increase our consumer lending in our rural communities, and the decrease in administration oversight will help us to focus on building the bank by taking care of our customers and building stronger communities,” said Eric Sprink CEO of Coastal Community Bank. “This long-awaited community bank regulatory relief legislation will put community banks like First Financial Northwest Bank in a better position to bolster local economic growth in the communities we serve. By ‘right-sizing’ some regulatory burdens we community bankers face, we are now in a better position to pursue our full economic potential to the benefit of our customers and communities,” said Joe Kiley, President, CEO & Director of First Financial Northwest Bank. “This bill also simplifies complex requirements to make responsible lending to local small businesses, particularly in rural communities, easier. For instance, it will help reduce the cost burden many Washingtonians, like folks in South Whidbey, experience when trying to find a licensed appraiser for small rural mortgage loans,” said Larsen. “S.2155 also corrects an unfair disparity between banks and credit unions to allow for more capital investment in affordable rental housing. This is will help spur economic growth in Washington state. “Congress must do everything in its power to hold big banks fully accountable, but I recognize that local community banks often cannot be subject to oversight of the same magnitude. These smaller financial institutions play important role in the Pacific Northwest’s economy. A tiered regulatory structure will ensure there is appropriate regulation for community banks and will help contribute to economic development throughout Washington state.” ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the below statement ahead of voting against the Farm Bill, which would negatively impact Washington’s Second Congressional District: “Washington state is the most trade-dependent state in the country, thanks in part to agriculture. The Farm Bill is an opportunity every five years for Congress to help Washington state farmers stay competitive in a global market. There are 35,000 farms in Washington state, the majority of which are small, family owned farms. “I am concerned some of my colleagues are using this bill as an opportunity to gut conservation, rural development, crop insurance and nutrition funding. Adding work requirements to SNAP benefits will place an undue burden on the more than 34,000 households in Washington’s Second District using food stamps to put dinner on the table each night. “Additionally, this bill completely misses the mark in fostering future trade opportunities for local farmers. Agriculture accounts for 12 percent of Washington state’s economy, is the state’s second largest export and supports 160,000 jobs. Congress should be looking for ways to help these local groups develop and expand into overseas markets, not hindering their efforts. I have heard repeatedly from agriculture groups about the need to expand funding for trade. This bill fails to do this and will hurt efforts to successfully export Washington state potatoes, apples, seed crops and other specialty crops.” Impacts to Washington’s Second District Hurts rural development programs: The bill does not provide funding for rural development programs which are important for farms across Skagit Valley. Rural development grants have assisted multiple farms and small businesses across Washington’s Second District, including the Puget Sound Food Hub, Gothberg Farms and Penn Cove Shellfish. Shortchanges organic research programs: The bill underfunds organic research programs, important to the 677 organic farms across Washington state. Washington State University’s (WSU) Everett Campus is developing an agriculture research program to focus specifically on organic research. Specialty Crops: The bill fails to increase funding that protects specialty crops. Skagit County is a significant contributor of specialty crops. Washington state produces 75 percent of the U.S. supply of spinach and cabbage seed and nearly 95 percent of U.S. beet seed. Local recipients of these grants include Viva Farms in Burlington. Crop insurance: The bill eliminates crop insurance programs which educate farmers on mitigating production and financial risks to their farms. These programs have provided assistance in Skagit Valley, including through bilingual “Cultivating Success” classes at the WSU Extension-Skagit to teach beginner farmers how to develop and sustain small-acreage farms. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, helped shape the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Rep. Larsen successfully secured provisions to protect U.S. national security and support the women and men in the military and the Department of Defense civilian workforce. “The NDAA makes important investments to strengthen military readiness, support servicemembers and their families and prepare for the future of warfare,” said Larsen. “I am thankful to my colleagues for including bipartisan priorities in the NDAA and look forward to working with the Committee to bring this over the finish line and provide our military the support they deserve.” Future of Work In Fiscal Year 2017, the Department of Defense supported servicemembers in obtaining more than 16,000 certifications, most in electrical and mechanical equipment repair fields. Rep. Larsen is committed to ensuring that veterans are able to transfer knowledge, skills and abilities attained in uniform to civilian careers. Larsen’s amendment will help servicemembers work towards the most valuable credentials for future employment. Technology As autonomous systems play an increasingly important role in warfare, Larsen pressed the U.S. Navy to expand university research access into how these systems will be used, how they can solve problems and what issues need more investigation. The base bill increased the budget authority for university grant programs and Larsen successfully included an amendment that requires a briefing on Navy support for academic research into autonomous systems. Supporting Local Military Communities Locally, the NDAA includes provisions that will benefit Northwest Washington’s military families, installations and the surrounding communities. Larsen successfully included $40 million for Impact Aid payments to schools that serve military students, like the Oak Harbor School District, with an additional $10 million for students with severe disabilities. This amount represents a 43 percent increase over the 2017 level. Noise reductions for the Super Hornet and Growler will help sailors working in close proximity to aircraft and communities near these squadrons. Rep. Larsen successfully included an amendment to increase the budget authority for research into reducing engine noise by $2.5 million. Support for Small Businesses Rep. Larsen helped secure two important provisions in this bill to benefit small businesses. First, the bill doubles the budget authority for Procurement Technical Assistance Centers, which help businesses work with the federal government. Larsen also offered as an amendment a bipartisan bill from Reps. Nydia Velazquez (NY-12) and Steve Chabot (OH-01) which will ensure small businesses working on federal construction projects have access to payment protections. The NDAA now heads to the full house for a vote. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement the United States will re-impose sanctions and violate the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, an international agreement to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon: “Last month, Secretary Mattis said staying in the Iran Deal is in America’s national interest. I agree. The president’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal is bad for national security and bad for U.S. credibility. The deal was the product of intense negotiations among U.S. allies and rivals and forces Iran to give up much of its nuclear infrastructure and nuclear material. “As part of the agreement, Iran must submit to intrusive inspections in return for relief for sanctions. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the organization tasked with verifying the deal, has certified that Iran is complying with the requirements. “If a change in administration causes the United States to renege on a successful international agreement, why would any country pursue future negotiations with the U.S.? “The president has the responsibility to lay out a realistic strategy if he wants to replace the Iran Deal. He cannot simply boast that he would have negotiated a better deal.” ###
05.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Rep. Ron Estes (KS-04) led a letter to the House Armed Services Committee and the House Appropriations Committee Defense Subcommittee leadership requesting authorization and appropriations for the procurement of 18 KC-46A aerial refueling tankers in 2019. “The KC-46A tanker is being built by the best aerospace workers in the world, the women and men at Boeing’s Everett factory,” said Larsen. “I am proud to support them and the nation’s servicemembers who will rely on this critical aircraft to provide advanced air refueling capability.” “One of my top priorities is making sure our military has the tools they need to succeed, including the best and safest aircraft for the Airmen at McConnell Air Force Base,” said Rep. Estes. “Securing this funding is a big win for McConnell, our community and our country. I am committed to continuing our efforts to fund additional KC-46 aircraft and rebuild our military.” Larsen and Estes were joined by 48 bipartisan members on the letter. Read the full text here and below: April 27, 2018 The Honorable Mac Thornberry Chair House Armed Services Committee 2120 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Adam Smith Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee 2120 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Kay Granger Chair House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee H-405, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Peter Visclosky Ranking Member House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairs and Ranking Members: After nearly 40 years, the United States Air Force is on the brink of receiving a new aerial refueling tanker – the KC-46A Pegasus. This is a welcomed development for the Nation’s warfighters, and we ask for your support in the Fiscal Year 2019 defense bills. As you know, the Air Force is replacing the current tanker fleet of Eisenhower-era KC-135s and Reagan-era KC-10s. These aircraft have been the cornerstone of the refueling mission, but the advanced age of the KC-135s has begun to undermine the fleet’s readiness and availability. The Air Force requires the multi-functional capability that the KC-46A will offer. The new platform will provide aerial refueling to U.S. and coalition aircraft via a more modern refueling boom and hose and drogue systems. It will bring the latest tools to detect, avoid, defeat and survive threats, and it can deploy worldwide in any operational environment, designed to transport not just fuel but cargo, passengers, and patients while performing aeromedical evacuation missions. As the Committees consider annual authorization and appropriations, we respectfully urge you to support the procurement of 18 tankers. The defense Committees have been a steward of taxpayer funding during this program’s development under a fixed price contract. The Committees can support the Air Force even further by maintaining steady procurement in this fiscal year. Our nation’s tanker fleet is the cornerstone of any operation that requires aerial assets. However, the current, aging fleet is in dire need of both new and additional assets, and we ask for your continued strong support for KC-46A tankers in the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense Authorization and Appropriations bills. We look forward to working with you throughout the year on this issue of national security. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Ron Estes Nanette Diaz Barragán Robert A. Brady Anthony G. Brown Salud O. Carbajal Wm. Lacy Clay Chris Collins Paul Cook Charlie Crist Rosa L. DeLauro Suzan DelBene Eliot Engel Adriano Espaillat Elizabeth Esty Marcia L. Fudge John Garamendi Denny Heck Brian Higgins Lynn Jenkins Walter B. Jones Marcy Kaptur Peter T. King Steve Knight Ann McLane Kuster John Larson Frank LoBiondo Dave Loebsack Alan Lowenthal Frank D. Lucas Roger W. Marshall Thomas MacArthur Brian J. Mast Cathy McMorris Rodgers Grace Napolitano Donald Norcross Jimmy Panetta John Ratcliffe Dave Reichert David Rouzer Bobby L. Rush Steve Russell Kurt Schrader Pete Sessions Carol Shea-Porter Christopher H. Smith Thomas R. Suozzi Mark Takano Glenn “GT” Thompson Dina Titus
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, applauded the passage of the long-term, five-year Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill. “This has been a long time coming. Congress has not enacted a long-term FAA reauthorization bill since 2012 and the agency is running on its fifth extension. With general aviation supporting more than 30,000 jobs in Washington state, this comprehensive, bipartisan bill provides long-term and predictable funding for the FAA, improves aviation safety, addresses workforce needs and advances vital research in the aviation field. “In Washington state, my constituents rely on airports of all sizes. In my hometown of Arlington, general aviation at Arlington Municipal Airport is vital, and the annual fly-in brings in people from across the country. Bellingham International Airport in Northwest Washington is seeking further investments in terminal and operations infrastructure to help keep pace with passenger needs. And Paine Field Airport in Snohomish County is a growing hub in the Pacific Northwest, with the construction of a new terminal and expanded air service expected later this year. Each of these airports plays a different, yet important role in serving the local community and the national aviation network. “As passenger growth continues, Congress must ensure airports across Washington state have the right tools in place to safely accommodate this new demand. The FAA reauthorization bill makes a host of improvements to make skies safer, including: Ensuring the FAA safety workforce is utilized efficiently and receives enhanced training; Strengthening the FAA's current voluntary safety reporting program for pilots so that critical safety enhancements are not needlessly delayed; Making progress toward NextGen implementation through engagement with local communities and airports in the process; Improving the federal Contract Tower Program to allow airports, like Bellingham International Airport, to make investments in their critical infrastructure; and Ensuring flight attendants have sufficient rest between duty periods. “I am pleased the FAA reauthorization bill includes my proposal to create a Youth Access to American Jobs in Aviation Task Force at the FAA. The task force will convene aviation trade schools and community colleges, airline carriers, industry, labor unions and other relevant stakeholders to develop recommendations on expanding access to STEM-based apprenticeships. By preparing students to immediately succeed in manufacturing, engineering, maintenance and other aviation-focused careers, this bill is a win-win-win for job seekers, the aviation sector, and the U.S. economy. “The FAA reauthorization bill includes a title on unmanned aircraft systems, or drones, which are flourishing in the skies at a pace we did not imagine years ago. Provisions in the bill will help the commercial drone industry safely thrive, while also addressing the many issues these new users present as they become integrated into U.S. airspace. “And finally, this legislation is a win for the environment and local communities in Washington’s Second District. Through research and development of new technologies under the FAA’s Continuous Lower Energy, Emissions and Noise (CLEEN) program, this legislation will help find quieter ways for plane engines to fly,” said Larsen. “No one understands and appreciates the needs for the aerospace industry better than Congressman Rick Larsen,” said Washington State University President Kirk Schulz. “We are grateful for the strong working relationship we have with our Congressional Delegation and appreciate his leadership in ensuring that WSU’s collaborative research supports the innovation needed for the aerospace sector to stay competitive now and into the future.” For years, Larsen has led the charge for long-term, comprehensive FAA reauthorization. In the 115th Congress, he has been at the helm of a series hearings exploring the needs of aviation stakeholders, including: growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, alleviating congestion and improving user experience at Sea-Tac and reforming aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers and transport products to market more quickly. “The United States has the biggest, most complex and busiest aviation system in the world,” said Larsen. “By enacting a long-term FAA reauthorization, the United States will remain the gold standard in aviation.” ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House Floor today in support of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act. Below is a video and transcript of his remarks: View remarks here. “Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018. “I am pleased that Congress is here today to consider a long-term bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “This moment has been a long time in coming. “Congress has not enacted a long-term FAA reauthorization bill since 2012, and it’s currently running on the fifth FAA extension since that time. “We are here to consider a comprehensive piece of legislation and a bipartisan piece of legislation that provides long-term and predictable funding for the FAA, improves aviation safety, addresses workforce needs and advances vital research in the field. “Whether large or small, airports across the United States play an important role in communities by connecting people, goods, services and creating jobs. “In Washington state, my constituents rely on airports of all sizes. “In my hometown of Arlington, general aviation at Arlington Municipal Airport is vital, and the annual EAA fly-in brings in people from across the country. “Bellingham International Airport in Northwest Washington is a developing airport which requires further investments in terminal and operations infrastructure to help keep pace with passenger demands. “And Paine Field Airport in Snohomish County is a growing hub in the Pacific Northwest, with the construction of a new terminal and expanded air service expected later this year. “Each of these airports plays a different, yet important role in serving the local community and the national aviation network. “The bill reflects Congress’ consensus to reform FAA’s aircraft certification processes, improve aviation safety, provide additional protections for U.S. passengers and help to better prepare the aviation workforce and further the safe integration of unmanned aircraft systems into the national airspace. “One of the most important things this bill does is to make FAA’s certification process more streamlined, consistent and efficient, while maintaining the highest level of safety. “The U.S. aviation industry is an economic powerhouse. It is particularly important to my home state of Washington. “In Washington state, general aviation contributes an estimated $3.6 billion to the economy and more than 30,000 jobs a year. “Without question, predictable and timely certification of aircraft and aircraft components is critical for domestic manufacturers to get their products to market. “These reforms are desperately needed to allow U.S. aviation manufacturers, like constituents in Everett as well as smaller contractors, to compete globally. “This bill also ensures that FAA’s product certification remains the “gold standard” abroad so that U.S. manufacturers remain competitive. “As passenger growth continues, Congress must ensure airports have the right tools in place to safely accommodate this new demand. “The bill makes a host of improvements to make our skies safer, including: Ensuring the FAA safety workforce is utilized efficiently and receives enhanced training; Strengthening the FAA's current voluntary safety reporting program for pilots so that critical safety enhancements are not needlessly delayed; Making progress toward NextGen implementation through engagement with local communities and airports in the process; Improving the federal Contract Tower Program to allow airports to make investments in their critical infrastructure; and Ensuring flight attendants have sufficient rest between duty periods. “It also includes numerous provisions that enhance the air travel experience for the more than 900 million passengers who fly each year, including: a prohibition on airlines involuntarily bumping passengers after they have boarded; a prohibition on the use of cell phones for voice communications during flight; and a requirement for airlines to create a one-page document outlining the rights of passengers, which will bring much-needed transparency to the industry. “One of my top priorities is to ensure working families in the Pacific Northwest get a better deal, which means expanding opportunities, creating more jobs and making sure the next generation of workers have the tools necessary to succeed in the workforce. “In this bipartisan bill that my colleagues and I have agreed to will protect and create American jobs through airport construction and aerospace manufacturing, ultimately boosting the nation’s economy. “As an example, the Port of Skagit is focused on expanding the Skagit Regional Airport, and is working to build a new hanger and longer taxiing runways. And these improvements are not only important for safety, they also create more well-paying jobs in construction. “Furthermore, the Career Connect Washington initiative aims to connect more than 100,000 students over the next five years with career-focused learning opportunities, building a bridge from school into high-demand and good paying jobs. “Across my district, nearly 900 young adults participating in this initiative have connected to apprenticeships, job shadows and other structured work based activity. “This bill builds on these efforts to better prepare students for the aviation workforce by: Encouraging schools, industry and other stakeholders address the skills-gap in the aviation maintenance field; and Requiring a GAO study of best practices to incentivize, recruit and retain new aviation workers “I am pleased that the bill includes my proposal to create a Youth Access to American Jobs in Aviation Task Force. “This task force will work with aviation trade schools and community colleges, airline carriers and industry, labor unions and other relevant stakeholders to develop recommendations to encourage high school students to enroll in aviation manufacturing, maintenance and engineering apprenticeships. “And finally, this legislation includes a title on unmanned aircraft systems, or drones, which are flourishing in the skies at a pace we did not imagine years ago. “Provisions in the current bill will help the commercial drone industry safely thrive, while also addressing the many issues these new users present as they become integrated into U.S. airspace. “This bill enacts a multi-year reauthorization, Mr. Chairman, of aviation taxes and FAA expenditure authority that provide the stable, predictable funding needed to carry out its safety mission and ensure the FAA remains the world leader in aviation research and development. “While these are all positive areas to address, I understand that some amendments will come today on slot exemptions and slot swaps and those have been made in order that would have regional consequences. “I oppose these efforts and believe it would be better to have a more substantive discussion to address these issues in Committee. “Mr. Chairman, We have the biggest, most complex and busiest aviation system in the world. “We are years past due in enacting a long-term FAA reauthorization that will allow the United States to remain the gold standard in aviation. “I am pleased to cosponsor this bill. “I reserve the balance of my time.” ###
04.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today issued the below statement in support of a House Resolution recognizing and supporting efforts to bring the 2026 FIFA World Cup to North America: “I fully support efforts to bring the 2026 Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup competition to Canada, Mexico and the United States,” said Larsen. “As an avid soccer fan, I am excited about the prospect of the games returning to North America. The World Cup not only unites billions of fans from around the world, but also generates significant tourism and economic growth. I am especially pleased that Seattle is one of the U.S. cities on the final list the bid committee will present.”
04.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the below statement on the passing of former Rep. Al Swift: “I am very saddened to hear that Al Swift died on Friday. To me, Al started as my representative, became a mentor and then my friend. “I went to Al for advice he could offer from representing Washington state's Second District for 16 years. Having served during a time when the U.S. was challenged by war, passed landmark environmental legislation, challenged a sitting president, and worked with Democratic and Republican administrations, he had much to offer to anyone who would ask. “I will remember Al for his work on transportation, especially rail; for his efforts to increase access to the ballot box; but mostly for his gut-busting stories. “When asking me which district I represent, people used to ask if I was in the "Al Swift seat." Even today, my answer is still a proud, “Yes.” “My family and I join others in remembering Al today and honoring his contribution to the country, to our state and to people of the Second District.” ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House Floor today in continued support of the Jones Act. Below is a video and transcript of his remarks: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my continued support of American maritime jobs through enforcement of the Jones Act. “The Merchant Marine Act of 1920 is more commonly known as the Jones Act, named for the primary sponsor at the time Wesley Jones from my home state, Washington state. The Jones exists for good reason. It sustains and protects a strong domestic maritime and shipbuilding industry. “It creates job opportunities for U.S. mariners, many of whom are veterans. “It underpins U.S. maritime defense policy and is essential to preserving national security interests at home and abroad. “The Jones Act requires the use of American owned and operated vessels to move all waterborne cargo between points in the U.S. “I have long maintained that the Jones Act ensures domestic industries can remain vibrant contributors to the global shipping industry. “At its core, the Jones Act is a critical labor standard that helps put U.S. seafarers to work and maintains important workplace rights. “In Washington state, approximately 60 percent of the state’s ferries employees working on vessels are Jones Act compliant. “In 2012, I called on the then-administration to protect American jobs by adhering to the Jones Act in response to rising gas prices and the proposed release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. “Last year I spoke up to support the Jones Act fleet in its heroic response to the natural disaster that hit Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “As a senior member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, I am committed to working with my colleagues to uphold the longstanding tenets of the Jones Act to safeguard the important role maritime industries play in our economy. “The Jones Act exists for good reason. We should use it to good effect. ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), submitted the following statement to the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Subcommittee hearing to continue to fund reproductive services for veterans as part of FY 2019 appropriations: Good afternoon, Chairman Dent and Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz, and other members of the subcommittee. I appreciate the opportunity to address you about priorities within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Appropriations. After more than fifteen years of war, thousands of veterans struggle with infertility and reproductive health. In the past, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) was expressly prohibited from covering adoption expenses or in vitro fertilization (IVF), the most effective form of assisted reproductive technology (ART) appropriate for people whose service-related injuries have harmed their reproductive capabilities. In the FY 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, Congress took important steps to improve the scope of health care available to severely injured or ill veterans. During mark-up, the Senate Appropriations Committee overwhelmingly approved an amendment offered by Senator Murray to allow VA to use existing funds to cover adoption assistance and fertility counseling and treatment, including IVF. Your engagement on this issue throughout the FY 2017 and FY 2018 process helped ensure IVF would be available for wounded veterans facing infertility. I urge members of the subcommittee to build on this bipartisan success. Recognizing that IVF and adoptions are both long processes, I believe extending this policy through annual appropriations is an inefficient way to deliver this coverage. I respectfully request that the committee make coverage of IVF and adoption assistance permanent by statutorily removing the prohibitions from law. And to ensure that coverage of these programs does not take away from spending on other veterans programs, I request that the Committee increase funding in order to provide this coverage. As an estimate, the Independent Budget Veterans Service Organizations have requested approximately $20 million to cover the cost of reproductive services in FY 2019. America’s women and men in uniform sacrifice greatly. If injured in the line of duty, they should not have to sacrifice their dreams of having a family. We are looking forward to working with you to improve the care available to our nation’s veterans by making permanent the authority to provide adoption assistance, fertility counseling, and fertility treatment, including the provision of IVF. In addition, I urge the committee to continue its strong bipartisan record of supporting veterans’ mental health care programs, suicide prevention efforts, programs that benefit homeless veterans, as well as pain management teams and other steps to address the opioid crisis. I appreciate your continued support for the nation’s veterans, and look forward to answering any questions members of the subcommittee may have. Thank you. ###
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today issued the below statement in response to last night’s airstrikes in Syria: “The international community has long condemned the use of chemical weapons. Their use in the 21st century as a tool of war violates international norms. Using them against civilians is especially terrible. Syria's use of chemical weapons earned a response from the international community. I support this military action that the U.S. and two of its key allies conducted last night. Today, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) is in Syria to investigate last week's chemical weapons attack. The international community needs to support its work now and ensure the OPCW can complete its work. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I call on the Pentagon to brief the House and Senate Armed Services Committees as soon as possible about next steps. There are several questions I have in my oversight role on the committee: 1. What changed in the Pentagon’s thinking from Thursday to Friday, from the time that Secretary Mattis expressed reservations about military strikes, to 30 hours later when he spoke at the Pentagon? 2. The Pentagon has said our overriding policy in Syria is the defeat of ISIS, not getting involved in the Syrian civil war; yet, these military strikes are a direct response to an action in the civil war. How will the Pentagon address future attacks on Syrian civilians? 3. What will be the diplomatic follow-up and what are our goals? Are we still trying to end the civil war, are we still trying to get rid of Assad? How do these strikes support that mission? 4. I do not think that last night’s decision to act needed Congressional authorization. However, Congress still needs to update the Iraq and September 11, 2001 Authorization’s for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) in the interests of U.S. national security policy. I will continue to advocate for Congressional action. The U.S. needs to reconcile its national security strategy with a more humane refugee policy. I call on the Administration to reverse its actions to limit the number of Sryian refugees to the United States. In 2016, the U.S. admitted 15,479 Syrian refugees. That number has steadily decreased to 3,024 in 2017 to just 11 so far in 2018. If attacking Syria for its chemical weapons use on its civilians is humane, then allowing more Syrian refugees to escape Syria and create a new life in our great country is at least as humane.
04.13.2018	Leaders of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today introduced the bipartisan FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4), a five-year bill to reauthorize the programs of the Federal Aviation Administration, provide long-term stability for the Nation’s aviation community, continue investment in U.S. airports, and make necessary reforms to improve American competitiveness and safety in aviation. H.R. 4 was introduced in the House today by the entire bipartisan leadership of the Committee and its six subcommittees, including Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and Aviation Subcommittee Ranking Member Rick Larsen (D-WA). The FAA Reauthorization Act: Keeps our Nation in the lead in aviation by putting American jobs, American innovation, and the traveling public first. Cuts Washington red tape so that our manufacturers can get products to market on time, stay competitive globally, and continue to employ millions of Americans. Encourages American innovation in aviation technologies to promote a stronger American workforce. Ensures that our airport infrastructure connects our businesses and increasing number of air travelers to the world. Gives the American traveling public a better flight experience. Ensures our system remains as safe as possible for the American traveler and addresses factors related to recent incidents. UPDATE: More information about the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, including text and summary information, is available here. “Our aviation system is essential to our economy and to the American way of life,” said Chairman Shuster. “This bill provides many important reforms that will help U.S. manufacturers and job creators lead in a very competitive global marketplace. This legislation ensures long-term investment and stability in aviation infrastructure for America’s large, small, and rural communities, and it addresses issues to help maintain the safety of our system.” “I’m glad we finally had the opportunity to come together and introduce a bipartisan, long-term FAA reauthorization bill – a bill that gives the FAA long-term funding it needs to do its job and includes mandates to improve aviation safety, to continue leading the world in aviation research and innovation, and to make needed and targeted reforms to critical aviation programs. This bill will also enhance the air travel experience for the hundreds of millions of U.S. passengers who take to the skies each year,” said Ranking Member DeFazio. “This FAA authorization is the culmination of years of hearings and listening sessions to solicit input from aviation stakeholders, commercial passengers, general aviation pilots and our colleagues,” said Chairman LoBiondo. “In the truest sense, this legislation represents bipartisan cooperation and compromise to advance the Nation’s aviation interests and safety in the skies. Moving a five-year FAA bill with broad bipartisan support through the Congress and to the President’s desk is my top priority as I wind down my Chairmanship of the Subcommittee.” “Aviation supports more than 30,000 jobs in Washington state and long-term FAA reauthorization will provide stability and economic growth in the Pacific Northwest,” said Ranking Member Larsen. “With this continued commitment to bipartisanship, the difference between the House and the Senate bills is now merely inches apart. I am pleased Congress can move forward on addressing the long-term infrastructure, workforce and aviation safety needs to benefit communities across the U.S.” H.R. 4 Includes Bipartisan Predisaster Mitigation Measure The introduced bill also includes the bipartisan Disaster Recovery Reform Act (DRRA), legislation that received overwhelming support in the House in December as part of an emergency disaster aid package. The DRRA provisions of the bill will help communities better prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against disasters of all kinds. The DRRA provides broad reforms to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), in particular increasing the federal emphasis on predisaster planning and mitigation to reduce the potential for future loss of life and help reduce the rising costs of disasters. UPDATE: More information about the Disaster Recovery Reform Act as included in H.R. 4, including text and summary information, is available here. “The bipartisan DRRA will ensure our communities are more resilient, build better, and build smarter. Ultimately, because of this commonsense, proactive approach to mitigating the impacts of disasters before they strike and not waiting until afterwards to simply pick up the pieces, this legislation will save lives, save property, and save taxpayer dollars,” said Chairman Shuster. “It is critical we as a Nation do everything in our power to help communities struggling to recover from disasters, but in doing so we must ensure we are building more resilient communities,” Ranking Member DeFazio said. “Climate change is real and the intensity of extreme weather events, and the billions of dollars in accompanying damage, are growing each year. More must be done to better prepare us for the next major disaster, and the bipartisan Disaster Recovery Reform Act is a step in the right direction.” “I thank Chairman Shuster for recognizing the importance of including the Disaster Recovery Reform Act in the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018,” said Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee Chairman Lou Barletta (R-PA). “After spending tens of billions of dollars on disasters in 2017, America needs a better system to ensure the effective use of taxpayer dollars. Pre-disaster mitigation is one of the most important steps we can take to better approach disaster recovery. We need to work to save lives and taxpayer dollars by building stronger, more resilient infrastructure after disaster strikes. By incentivizing pre-disaster mitigation, my bill will help us save $4 to $8 on the back end for every $1 spent on the front end. It’s time for us to help communities across the nation build better and build smarter.” “I am pleased to join the leadership of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in sponsoring this important legislation to reauthorize the programs of the Federal Aviation Administration,” said Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee Ranking Member Dina Titus (D-NV). “This bill includes a number of provisions I championed to promote the safe integration of unmanned aviation systems into the airspace, extend Nevada’s UAS Test Range authorization, and promote both worker and traveler safety. I am also pleased that the Disaster Recovery and Reform Act is included in this legislative package. DRRA contains commonsense, bipartisan reforms to help our communities not only respond to ever-worsening disasters, but prepare for them as well. As the major hurricanes and wildfires that impacted millions of Americans from the U.S. Virgin Islands to California have demonstrated, disasters are growing more violent and costly. We must prioritize pre-mitigation activities to make our communities more resilient and better-prepared for the next storm, fire, flood, and earthquake.” Additional information will be provided as it becomes available.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement ahead of voting no for the balanced budget amendment: “The balanced budget amendment is a back end way to cut health care, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. It is a hypocritical, underhanded attack on Americans who are least able to fight for these services,” said Larsen. “After passing a massive, unfair and irresponsible tax bill, Congressional Republicans are attempting to cover the cost of their reckless plan on the backs of millions of seniors across Washington state.” Of the 7.2 million people living in Washington state, 1.8 million receive Medicaid. Two million Washington state seniors are enrolled in Medicare and 180,000 of these seniors also rely on Medicaid. Every one in six Washingtonians receive Social Security benefits. ###
04.12.2018	
03.31.2018	WASHINGTON-02, WA—Beginning April 3, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host a series of roundtable discussions on transportation and infrastructure issues impacting Washington’s Second Congressional District. In a series of meetings, Larsen will hear from officials from Island, Whatcom, Snohomish and Skagit Counties on the impacts the recently passed Omnibus spending package, the president’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposal and infrastructure plans could have on local projects. Last year, the United States received a D+ on its infrastructure. According to the Association of Washington Business, Washington state alone needs over $190 billion in infrastructure investments, with highways and local roads requiring $134 billion in investment. Congressman Larsen is focused on maintaining federal investment in Washington’s infrastructure in order to sustain and build on the state’s economic growth and put folks in the Pacific Northwest to work. ###
03.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement ahead of announcements by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to roll back important clean vehicle emissions standards. “The United States must lead with action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the harmful effects of climate change worldwide,” said Larsen. “Rolling back the popular and effective clean car standards is the wrong choice and hurts American families. Removing protections will not only harm vulnerable populations suffering from chronic conditions like asthma, but will also force families across the Pacific Northwest to spend more at the pump and contribute to the growing struggles of the agriculture community impacted by drought.” Washington state families will be directly impacted if the EPA removes these clean vehicle protections. Leaving the standards in place creates stability for manufacturers and puts money back into the pockets of Washington families. According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, these standards would result in more than 12,500 new jobs by 2030 in Washington state alone. These jobs are important for building the next generation’s global workforce. Larsen has been a strong supporter of environmental protections and efforts to reverse the effects of climate change. His support of various protections, including the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, has garnered high scores on the League of Conservation Voters National Environmental Scorecard. Larsen is a leader in preserving and protecting important lands and waters in Washington state, including the San Juan Islands and the Puget Sound’s estuaries, rivers and streams. ###
03.30.2018	
03.30.2018	
03.20.2018	MARYSVILLE, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a community coffee event at the Marysville YMCA in Marysville on Sunday, March 25. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Sunday, March 25 Larsen will hold a community coffee at Marysville YMCA 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 a.m. PST Marysville YMCA 6420 60th Drive Northeast Marysville, WA 98270 ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) continued his commitment to school safety by voting for legislation that supports school threat assessment teams, anonymous reporting systems for students and training to better identify signs of violence. “Schools must be a place where children feel safe. The STOP School Violence Act will fund critical resources to keep students safe including counselors, mental health assistance and conflict resolution,” said Larsen. “The STOP School Violence Act is a step in the right direction to address the threat of gun violence in schools across the U.S. I am pleased that it provides funding for physical deterrent measures such as emergency communication technologies, entrance control locks and lighting. These are commonsense security measures that I have long advocated for.” Since he was elected, Congressman Larsen has consistently been a leader on school safety. Larsen has advocated for the Critical Incident Planning and Mapping System in Washington state which provides maps and blueprints of schools, school crisis plans, hazardous material inventories, interior photographs and staff contact lists to assist law enforcement officials in responding to school shootings and other emergencies. In 2014, following a tragic shooting in Washington’s Second District at Marysville-Pilchuck High School, Congressman Larsen met with school administrators, police officers and the community to discuss school safety. As a result of these meetings, he introduced the School Safety Act, which would reauthorize the Secure Our Schools program. This grant program, last authorized from 2002-2011, provides matching grants to state, local and tribal governments to boost school safety resources. The grants also provide security training for personnel and students along with coordination with local law enforcement. Earlier this month, Congressman Larsen joined Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) on a bipartisan letter requesting $150 million for Secure Our Schools grants in the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus bill, more than nine times the amount that has ever been appropriated. Additionally, Congressman Larsen formed the School Safety Caucus in 2016 to provide a forum for Congress to figure out the best ways for schools to approach their safety needs, and to push for investments in security and other safety measures. Congressman Larsen remains concerned that the President’s Fiscal Year 2019 Budget cuts funding to prevent crime and recover from tragedies in schools. Counselors, mental health assistance, school safety and conflict resolution are all resources critical in preventing and recovering from tragedies like the one at Marysville-Pilchuck High School. He will continue to advocate for school safety resources that keep U.S. students safe.
03.07.2018	Remarks as Delivered by Congressman Rick Larsen at a Brookings Institution Event: “The end of U.S. engagement with China?” Brookings Institution March 7, 2018 As Delivered Thanks Bruce, and thanks for the opportunity to be here at Brookings. Good morning everyone. It is an honor to be here. I want to thank Brookings for the invitation to be keynote today. I appreciate the opportunity. But I did note to Bruce as I walked in, I said think you got your title wrong, which the title is “Is this the end of U.S. engagement with China?” I think a more appropriate title would be: “Is this the end of U.S. engagement with China, the EU, Canada, Mexico and so on?” The short answer I think is no, obviously. But, just focusing on the title of this morning, I can understand anxiety that folks have. For instance last year, China again had made a commitment to improve market access and reduce restrictions on foreign investments, the latest in several commitments over the last 20 years. And yet, there seems to be little to no movement on those commitments. China continues its efforts to be a development and growth model, challenging existing international rules and an international order that existed for 70 years. And one from which it benefitted, and one that the U.S. has largely led. And now again, seems to be challenging that order. And China, as Bruce mentioned, continues efforts to create and militarize artificial islands in the South China Sea and its unwillingness to comply with international norms there can seem to indicate that China is not interested in finding mutual beneficial solutions either. So the question in today’s forum should not be a surprise to anyone. As well, what good is continuing to engage on these issues if the U.S. gets so little in return? Seems a fair question. And honestly, a question that on Capitol Hill is asked quite often. And some of my colleagues in Congress have called for more hawkish approach and attitude towards China to prepare for the inevitable conflict with China in their works. But other writers have taken a more nuanced approach. In the most recent issue of Foreign Affairs, Ely Ratner and Kurt Campbell note that throughout history, the U.S. has regularly set too high a bar in its expectations of shaping China’s trajectory. They said, and this is a quote, “Reality warrants a clear-eyed thinking of the U.S. approach to China… Building a stronger and more sustainable approach to, and relationship with, Beijing requires honesty about how many fundamental assumptions have turned out wrong.” End quote. So, again, I ask, does a U.S. response to these actions China is taking need to be more hawkish as some of my colleagues want or more realistic, as we might hear today? I certainly fall on the more realistic side of things. But, I want to address maybe how we can go about doing that, and use an American football analogy. For those who follow American football, you’ll get it. For those who don’t, ask your neighbor. So in other words, to look at this analogy, does the U.S. need to act like a defensive coordinator? Or, do we need to think like a head coach and develop new offensive and defensive strategies, a new playbook, or even dust off the old playbook, that are better tailored to the outcome that we want to see? I certainly again fall on the latter side. We are playing a lot of defense right now in our approach, instead of thinking about what offensive tools that we already have and what tools we can develop to play offense. Not necessarily offense against China, but just offense for its own sake to keep the U.S. out in the world. And I want to cover some of what that means. It’s time to again strengthen these tools. So, instead of looking at the Belt and Road Initiative, as some people do, as something to be afraid of, the U.S. can use tools like the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the Export-Import Bank and the U.S. Trade and Development Agency to better offer more options to emerging markets and emerging democracies in development finance and democratic governance than just the options they might be getting through BRI. We have to have a strategic, offensive plan must take into account issues like education, business, foreign trade and investment, our military capabilities as well and a bilateral relationship with China. I just want to say that these ideas aren’t necessarily mine or new, there are a lot of good folks here and a lot of good folks at one of your competitors at CSIS and good folks at other places who have said some of the same things. But I don’t know that on Capitol Hill or frankly in the White House that they are really doing a good job of looking at this relationship holistically. That we are really slicing it up into parts and concluding that it’s not going well. So what are those parts? Well, I think first, the U.S., we should go more on offense when it comes to education. Foreign language skills have to be a critical area of focus in U.S. schools. In the U.S., foreign language lags and limits our ability to compete globally. So there is an estimated 300 million English language learners in China, and only 1.6 million Americans identified themselves as Chinese language speakers in the last census. Compare that total to the number of students in kindergarten through high school who study Spanish, which is necessary as well, that’s seven million. Another 1.2 million students study French. The number of students studying Chinese in that age range is a little over 227,000. In 2015 President Obama and President Xi Jinping committed to expand the number of U.S. K-12 students studying Mandarin to one million by 2020 and we have to continue to build on that commitment. Congress should also increase funding for programs such as the Foreign Language and Area Studies Fellowships and the Boren Scholarships that assist college students studying foreign languages and international studies. Beyond investments in foreign language, the U.S. must be better equipped to compete with China, and with other countries, in emerging scientific fields like Artificial Intelligence, robotics, quantum computing and nanotechnology. This is the speech that I give to my mechanical engineering son almost every day. But, to do this the U.S. has to educate and train a workforce with skills necessary to succeed in an ever-changing global economy. So our foreign policy success is going to depend a little bit on domestic policy successes. Our education system needs to encourage more students to pursue an interest in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math. By 2022 in the U.S. there will be about nine million STEM-related jobs in the United States. Yet, we cannot attract enough students for those positions. Only 40 percent of the U.S. students who enter college intending to major in a STEM field actually graduate with a degree in STEM. So we don’t need 100 percent of students, of all students, studying STEM, but we would like to have close to 100 percent of the students who start studying STEM to finish studying STEM. We need to continue to push legislation that creates access to apprenticeships that my generation benefitted from. And advocate for funding of career and technical education to help states close that skills gap and prepare students for the transition from high school to community college, an apprenticeship or job training. I know most of you thought you came here to hear a foreign policy speech, but we have got to do both. An area where we have been offensive, but perhaps need a little different of a playbook, is in ensuring our businesses can compete on a level playing field globally. Now, some in Congress want to do this by reforming the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States process and include more aggressive export controls. Rather than stifling the business climate by establishing a stricter CFIUS process, the U.S. should pair measured reform with policy changes that incentivize China to open its economy. We need a more comprehensive analysis of the net impact of foreign direct investment in the United States so we actually know what we are dealing with if we start tinkering around with the CFIUS. We should have this report before moving forward with any changes. Businesses are getting increasingly frustrated with Chinese business policy. The American Chamber of Commerce 2017 annual report concluded that while businesses are generally upbeat on relations, 75 percent of members feel foreign companies are less welcome in China than they have been in the past. We can do many things to address these concerns, but I think one thing, and again, this is dusting off the playbook, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative must continue and reinvigorate negotiations on a Bilateral Investment Treaty with China. Now as the co-chair of the New Dems, it’s a Caucus within Congress, the New Dems Trade Task Force, I would be remiss if I did not say that our new offensive playbook must include foreign investments and trade. China’s Belt and Road Initiative has spooked some analysts and some of my colleagues in Congress as I mentioned as a threat to U.S. status in Asia. But, rather than responding with alarmism, the U.S. should reinvest in existing programs that promote trade, investment and economic diplomacy. Again we can go on offense, we don’t need to cower in fear on the Belt and Road Initiative, which is basically just a lot of construction, it’s probably more than that, I understand. Trade is an important soft power tool for the U.S. to use. We must continue to develop strong agreements with partners in the Asia-Pacific. And I would even include getting back into TPP. This shouldn’t be news to anyone here who knows me. But, additionally, the U.S. can and should play a leadership role in organizations that create opportunities for U.S. businesses in Asia, and for businesses and countries in Asia, such as the World Bank, such as Asian Development Bank. We also should continue prioritizing in the State Department APEC as well as the Department’s Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs. And while a focus on Asia is important, again, we can’t fail to recognize the importance of investment in other areas of the world, including Africa. This week, Secretary Tillerson delivered a speech talking about the importance of the African Growth and Opportunity Act. This is true, but we must do more. The U.S. does not need to compete dollar for dollar with Chinese investments in Africa, but we can maintain a continued presence in the countries of Africa. An increase in funds for Department of Commerce programs like Power Africa and Trade Africa, which help U.S. businesses operate in Africa and bring investment to countries in sub-Saharan Africa, demonstrates a U.S. commitment to the region in a time where China itself is funding more projects. I just want to move to a last couple of issues. First on security, similar to the education strategy where we invest, the Department of Defense should expand research and partnerships into disruptive technologies that could upset a balance of power. This includes investments in critical technologies like artificial intelligence, quantum computing, nanotechnology and supercomputing. And the budget should reflect that. The budget should reflect strengthening diplomatic relationships and military cooperation with our allies in the Asia-Pacific region. These alliances and partnerships are an area of strategic advantage over China, who does not necessarily want to have partnerships and alliances. But when we maintain those and invest in those partnerships and alliances it helps strengthen our friendships and should alleviate some of the concerns my colleagues have. And I think the president should focus on strengthening ties with America’s friends, rather than antagonizing our American friends. And our military should continue to pursue opportunities to engage with the PLA through multilateral exercises and policies to help avoid miscommunication during encounters. I’ll just end on a note on the bilateral relationship as well. Because for all of this said, I can tell you on Capitol Hill we tend to think of competing with China all the time, when in fact there is a lot of room for cooperation still. On climate change, there is still of room for cooperation and we have to think long term about that and not really stay focused just on the current president’s policies and proposals with regard climate change, but think long-term. On counterterrorism there is room for cooperation. Certainly on North Korea there is continued room for cooperation. We need to continue to pursue these areas of cooperation with China and have the strongest bilateral relationship that we can have. So the relationship is very complex. In fact, I’ve said we don’t have one relationship with China, we have many relationships with China depending on the issue. Some are high, some are low. I tend to think it’s a little like the stock market, it goes up and down, it’s a roller coaster. But it tends to inch up over time. And it can only grow as well through continued engagement, through continued dedication and maybe a shot or two of baijiu. But I tell you, it makes it difficult when, for me to help in my way to manage the relationship, when you have announcements from the White House that frankly aren’t well thought through. And this latest announcement on steel and aluminum, which started out as something targeted at China, apparently applies to all countries who produce steel and aluminum, which includes many of our friends and allies and people who are concerned about a trade war with China and didn’t see a trade war with the EU coming. So we’ve got some continued things we need to manage here in the U.S. and take care of. In the end, I just want to say the main message I have is that we don’t need to necessarily be on defense. We have an offensive playbook. We maybe need some new plays, but we have plays that have worked in the past, and we should use them. Not just in a way to compete with China, but in some ways to further cooperate with China. But also to ensure the U.S. is even on the playing field with China and with many other countries. With that I’m going to end because I’m about to have a coughing fit. I appreciate the chance to be here and I hope that’s a good opening for you all, and I look forward to some questions from Cheng Li. ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) led a letter on February 27th to Senate and House leadership advocating for a long-term solution for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in Washington state. Reps. Smith (WA-09), DelBene (WA-01), Heck (WA-10), Kilmer (WA-06) and Jayapal (WA-07) also joined the letter. Text of the letter can be found here and below: Dear Speaker Ryan, Minority Leader Pelosi, Majority Leader McConnell, and Minority Leader Schumer: As the debate on comprehensive immigration reform continues, we wanted to bring your attention to the impact and importance of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in Washington state. The president has continually advocated for the long-term growth of the U.S. economy. The truth is, ending DACA and stripping the opportunity of citizenship from Dreamers would remove an estimated 685,000 workers who contribute every day to the nation’s economy and result in a loss of $460.3 billion from the national GDP over the next decade. In Washington state alone, more than 17,800 young people have come forward under DACA, passed background checks, and now live and work legally in the United States. Should DACA end, the cost to Washington state alone would equal nearly $1.1 billion in annual GDP losses. These young people were brought to the United States as children. While they are not U.S. citizens, many Dreamers have lived their entire lives in the United States and they work hard and contribute to our country. As of last year, 900 DACA recipients are serving in the military. The women and men who serve our country in the military are heroes and deserve better than to fear for their future livelihood. Dreamers are no different than any other young folks who grow up dreaming of an education, serving in the military and continuing to build a life in this country. As members of the Washington state delegation, we write this letter to ask you to include a permanent solution for the DACA program in any future legislation, so that Dreamers can carry on their contributions to the economy of the United States of America. Sincerely, ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) today announced they are leading a bipartisan letter requesting $150 million, more than nine times the amount that has ever been appropriated, for Secure Our Schools grants, to be included in next month’s funding bill. Secure Our Schools grants go to state and local governments to help increase safety measures in schools. Reps. Larsen and Davis made the following statement on their efforts: “Last week, Andrew Pollack, the parent of Meadow, a student killed at Marjory Stoneman High School, passionately reminded all of us that we have failed as a country to protect our schools and we must work together to keep our children safe. Helping schools increase safety is something we believe Congress should be able to agree on and it is something we can address right now to help prevent another tragedy. That is why we are asking for $150 million for the Secure Our Schools program, nine times the amount of money that has ever been appropriated. “Just as there was not one singular failure that led to the tragedy at Marjory Stoneman High School, there is not one singular law that will solve this, but that is not an excuse for inaction. While Congress should continue to work together to address the larger failures impacting our system, there is an opportunity now, with this upcoming funding bill, to help increase safety in our schools. We should not miss this opportunity. Too often, Washington allows our differences on one issue to prevent action in areas where we agree. We cannot let that happen here.” Secure Our Schools grants provide funding to state and local governments to develop school safety resources, including physical security measures such as metal detectors, locks and lighting. The grants also provide security training for personnel and students along with coordination with local law enforcement. The program requires a 50 percent local and state match. In 2010, the program received $16 million. Today’s letter, addressed to Speaker Paul Ryan and leaders of the House Appropriations Committee, is currently being circulated for signatures. Rep. Larsen has been a strong advocate for the Secure our Schools grants. Following a tragic shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in 2014, Congressman Larsen met with school administrators, police officers and the community to discuss ways to ensure the safety of young people at school. As a result of these meetings, Congressman Larsen introduced the School Safety Act, which would reauthorize the Secure Our Schools program. In 2016, Congressman Larsen also started the School Safety Caucus to provide a forum for Congress to figure out the best ways for schools to approach their safety needs, and to push for investments in security and other safety measures. Text of the letter can be found below: Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Serrano, Thank you for your work to appropriate resources to support our nation's priorities. As you begin to draft the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, we respectfully urge you to include $150 million in funding for the Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program, one of the Community Policing Services (COPS) programs. As Andrew Pollack, whose daughter Meadow was one of the victims at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, stated, "We as a country failed our children. This shouldn't happen. . . . And we need to come together as a country and work on what's important. And that's protecting our children in the schools." Drills and trainings to prepare schools for horrific situations like we saw in Parkland, Newtown, and Marysville are part of everyday life for students and teachers across the country. Kids should be focused on learning instead of worrying about their personal safety in their classroom. No child should ever feel unsafe while going to school and we must give them the peace of mind they deserve. It is our duty to stand up for these kids and take the necessary steps to ensure their safety. In 2002-2011, SOS grants provided funding to state, local, and tribal governments to develop school safety resources. The funds may be used for physical security measures, such as metal detectors, locks, and lighting; for security training of personnel and students; and for coordinating with local law enforcement. These competitively awarded match grants will help ensure that our schools have the resources they need to keep students safe. Thank you again for your work on the Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. We respectfully urge you to include $150 million for the SOS grant program to protect our nation's children. cc: The Honorable Paul. D Ryan, SpeakerThe Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader ###
03.01.2018	
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after voting yes on a bill that will hold online platforms accountable for publishing content that might help to facilitate human trafficking. “While the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 is an imperfect bill, local law enforcement and advocacy groups across Washington’s Second District have told me sex trafficking is a big problem that we must address. Platforms like Backpage.com have no place in our communities and are a danger to teens across the United States. I am proud that Washington state has been a leader in criminalizing human trafficking. Senator Cantwell and I took the lead to pass the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act that protects foreign women brought to the U.S. for marriage. Congress must continue to build on this progress and take steps to protect these vulnerable populations.”
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.— In today’s House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Material hearing, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined his colleagues to advocate for legislation protecting the nation’s railways. Last December, the Amtrak Cascades 501 train was on its inaugural trip from Seattle to Portland when it derailed near DuPont Washington, killing three and injuring 62 passengers and crewmembers. “Far too often high-speed derailments, collisions and other hazardous rail incursions are deemed preventable. Communications and signaling safety mechanisms, like positive train control (PTC) could save lives in derailments like the Amtrak Cascades 501 in my home state of Washington, to the more recent incidents in South Carolina and Virginia. “Earlier this year, my colleagues and I introduced the Positive Train Control Implementation and Financing Act. This bill encourages higher rail safety standards and provides the necessary federal resources to help railroad companies implement these life-saving communications and signaling safety mechanisms by the end of 2018,” said Larsen. This legislation will provide $2.5 billion in grants to commuter and intercity passenger railroads for PTC implementation and prohibits railroads from beginning new service on routes unless this technology is fully operational. During the hearing, Larsen called on the National Transportation Safety Board to provide an update on the investigation of Amtrak Cascades 501. He also asked Amtrak for an update on how the proposed budget could impact its safety strategy.
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement on the Administration’s Infrastructure Plan: “You can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure – and the Administration’s Infrastructure Plan struck out. This plan is not a partnership between the federal government and states. A well thought out infrastructure plan must preserve the important role federal resources play in maintaining and modernizing infrastructure across the country. The President’s shortsighted plan fails to do this, and instead shifts the cost burden to state and local taxpayers, like the residents of Washington state’s Second Congressional District. “Last year, the United States got a D+ on its infrastructure. If my son in college came home with a D+ in his calculus class, he would be in big trouble. Washington state alone needs over $190 billion in infrastructure investments, with highways and local roads requiring $134 billion in investment. “One of the best ways to create jobs is to invest in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. Any plan to address the nation’s infrastructure challenges cannot do so without focusing on how to build the next generation workforce. I’m pleased to see recognition of the importance of Pell grants, apprenticeships and the Perkins Career and Technical Education Program, which help make education affordable for thousands of students in my district who will one day perform these critical jobs across the country. “However, when an infrastructure plan prioritizes the ability of a state or locality to raise funds over the quality of a project, worthy projects could be underfunded, or not funded at all. And while Washington state has made considerable investments in procuring funding for projects in the state, this is not a realistic approach for a nationwide infrastructure plan. “The 2015 ‘Connecting Washington’ plan invests $16 billion in state funds over more than a decade to support projects that relieve congestion, improve freight mobility, advance transit safety, modernize our rail and ferries systems, and offer more clean transportation; all while supporting over 200,000 jobs. In Governor Inslee’s proposed 2017-2019 budget, the state laid out increased funding for transportation, water resources and quality, electricity grid modernization and ecosystem restoration. “Additionally, Washington has pursued other funding options, such as incrementally raising the gas tax, to help to ensure the longevity of state infrastructure projects. Robust investments are already being made on the state level. We need to see the same level of commitment from the President. “I am proud of the efforts Washington state has made to address repairing crumbling roads, bridges and highways, and support transit projects. Federal investment in Washington’s infrastructure is critical to sustaining and building on the state’s economic growth and putting folks in the Pacific Northwest to work.” ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) continued his commitment to building the future workforce by voting for legislation that aims to increase science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) in early childhood education. “Students must have every opportunity to learn the skills they need to compete in a global workforce. This begins early in a child’s education,” said Larsen. “I have seen the creativity of students in classrooms across Northwest Washington first-hand. In my visits to classrooms across Washington’s Second District, including Emerson Elementary School’s third grade technology classroom, students are learning through hands-on engineering activities, like building LEGO-based robots. “I am proud to cosponsor the Building Blocks of STEM Act, and will continue to look for ways to expand access to STEM opportunities for students in the Pacific Northwest and across the country.” Larsen has consistently been a proponent of STEM education. He introduced the Youth Access to American Jobs Act to help create a pathway for students in their junior year of high school through community college and into apprenticeship programs. Earlier this month, Larsen participated in several STEM events across Washington’s Second District including the first ever Snohomish STEM Summit where he heard from different sectors of the workforce, STEM leaders and legislators. ###
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement ahead of voting for the budget agreement in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I am voting yes on the budget deal. It tackles important issues facing Washington’s working families such as infrastructure, the opioid crisis and ensuring the next generation has job skills they need to enter the workforce. “Over the last year at community coffee and town hall events, opioid addiction has emerged as the number one issue people care about. It is easy to see why. More than 3,400 Washingtonians have died from an opioid overdose since 2012. While Snohomish County represents less than ten percent of the state’s population, the county accounted for almost 15 percent of all heroin-related deaths from 2012-2016. This last July, 37 overdoses occurred in the county during one week, ten of which occurred on a single day. There is no excuse for not addressing this issue. The $6 billion provides greater access for folks seeking substance abuse treatment and mental health rehabilitation. “Since taking office, I have held 63 roundtables with veterans, where I’ve heard about the needs of the 56,000 veterans who live in Washington’s Second District. The budget will improve conditions at Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals and clinics, and provide better access to health care for those living far away from VA facilities, as many geographically-challenged veterans in my district know. “80,000 homeless patients will still have access to critical health resources through Community Health Centers. Additionally, 5,700 children from Washington state’s Second District will continue to receive comprehensive, high-quality health care through the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Helping these vulnerable communities makes this a budget worth voting for. “You can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure – and last year the United States got a D+ when it comes to infrastructure. If my son in college came home with a D+ in his calculus class, he’d be in big trouble. The $20 billion in the budget will pull this grade up, provide repairs to crumbling roads, bridges and highways, and support transit projects, all while putting folks in Washington state to work. “If the budget deal passes, over the next several weeks Congress will need to work on the appropriations process. Through this process I will focus on further addressing the opioid epidemic, passing a robust funding bill for aviation-relation construction projects, fixing our broken immigration system and building the next generation workforce so young people have a leg up in an ever-changing global economy.” ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass a bill to strengthen Ukrainian cybersecurity. “I voted for the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act because the bill will help the Ukrainian government improve its cybersecurity and reduce its reliance on Russian technology,” said Larsen. “I strongly oppose Russian actions to threaten and destabilize Ukraine. This legislation is critical to Ukrainian national security because recent history has proven physical security and cybersecurity go hand-in-hand.” Washington state’s second Congressional district has over 7,500 people of Ukrainian ancestry, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined his House colleagues in introducing a resolution recognizing February as National Career and Technical Education (CTE) Month. “Creativity in the classroom is happening in schools across Northwest Washington,” said Larsen. “Last week, I toured Emerson Elementary’s third grade technology classroom where students learn through hands-on engineering activities. Classes like this connect young people with the skills they need to compete in the global workforce. That is why I am pleased to join my colleagues in recognizing National CTE Month.” The resolution recognizes the importance of CTE and encourages educators, counselors, career development professionals, and parents to promote CTE as an option for students. During the 2015-16 school year, more than 313,300 high school students and over 165,500 two-year college students were enrolled in CTE programs in Washington state. Nationwide, there are currently 12 million students enrolled in CTE career academies, CTE centers, and two-year colleges. Larsen has consistently been a proponent of CTE and STEM education. He introduced the Youth Access to American Jobs Act to help create a pathway for students in their junior year of high school through community college and into apprenticeship programs. Last week, Larsen participated in several Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) and CTE related events across the Second District. Larsen attended the first ever Snohomish STEM Summit to hear from different sectors of the workforce, STEM leaders and legislators. Larsen talked with Stanwood High School students about apprenticeships and entering into the workforce after graduation. He also met members of Emerson Elementary School’s First Lego League Teams, a hands-on program to get students interested in STEM through engineering challenges, like building LEGO-based robots. Text of the resolution can be found HERE. ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after voting no on the fifth short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) of the 2018 budget year in the House of Representatives. The bill provides full-year funding to the Department of Defense, but only short-term funding for the rest of the federal government: “I voted no on today’s Continuing Resolution because Congressional Republicans have once again shown their unwillingness to work with Democrats to pass a long-term spending bill and address important issues like immigration and infrastructure. “Operating under short-term CRs is not the way to run the U.S. Government. It is time to pass a bipartisan long-term budget that addresses critical issues like infrastructure, veterans’ benefits, national health emergencies like the opioid crisis, and improving job skills through apprenticeships. “Washingtonians deserve better than partisan gridlock. The American people expect more than a failure to commit to long-term solutions on the education, health and economic security of working families.” ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s declassification of a partisan memo which makes deceptive claims about FBI surveillance during the 2016 campaign: “The Nunes Memo is just another attempt to undermine the Trump-Russia investigation. As the investigation into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia has advanced, the President’s defenders have regularly tried and failed to distract the public. It is fitting that on Groundhog Day, Trump loyalists are repeating the same stunt,” said Larsen. “President Trump and his enablers have proven willing to compromise intelligence methods, mislead the public, and threaten the separation of powers in order to undermine legitimate investigations into the Trump-Pence campaign’s ties to Russia,” Larsen concluded. ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement in advance of President Trump’s State of the Union address: “As America prepares for the State of the Union, I expect the president will tout his GOP tax cut from last year. There is little doubt that a few companies have used the tax cut to pass on bonuses to workers, and those workers should enjoy the one-time bonuses. However, let this also be a reminder while American workers get short-term, temporary tax relief under the president’s tax cut plan, the richest Americans and the largest companies enjoy permanent tax cuts. The GOP deliberately designed their tax plan to include a tax increase for the middle class in the future. “I also expect the president to tout increases in the stock market tonight, but only 52 percent of Americans own stocks. And 81 percent of the entire stock market is owned by only 10 percent of Americans. This means that stock market growth largely concentrates wealth in the hands of the richest Americans. “America deserves a better deal. “I hope the president will instead lay out a plan to create good jobs in our communities. Unfortunately, U.S. investment in infrastructure continues to reside in a state of neglect. I hope the president will provide details on his infrastructure plan tonight, including a robust, consistent, federal commitment to funding our nation’s infrastructure. But early indications show the president will continue to rely on private investment. This over reliance on private funding risks transportation systems going where they make the most money for the fewest people, instead of going to where they best serve the needs of our economy. “I hope the president will address the national opioid crisis. The decline in the labor force is intertwined with the opioid epidemic. Over the last 15 years, the labor force participation rate fell more in counties where more opioids were prescribed. America is experience that same crisis that these other countries are experiencing. “The president must also outline a clear plan how he will fund Community Health Centers, a critical point of health care access for so many folks across the U.S. The president must lay out how he expects how the United States will set the rules of the road in the Asia-Pacific, with his trade agenda. While I support the president’s position to update some trade agreements especially in the areas of digital trade, IP, and environmental and labor provisions. Acting rashly and unilaterally, like withdrawing from NAFTA, will damage states that rely on trade and result in job losses. “I also hope to hear President Trump lay out a strong vision for a more unified country. Now is the time to unify behind an inclusive agenda that ensures all Americans enjoy the gains from economic growth. “All in all, I hope the president presents a better deal for Americans in the coming year,” said Larsen. ###
01.24.2018	OAK HARBOR, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event at Whidbey Coffee in Oak Harbor on Sunday, January 28th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Sunday, January 28th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at Whidbey Coffee 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. PST Whidbey Coffee 31275 WA-20 Oak Harbor, WA 98277 ###
01.24.2018	
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting against the fourth short-term Continuing Resolution of the 2018 budget year in the House of Representatives: “Pushing through a fourth Continuing Resolution is as useless as polishing the brass on the Titanic – the ship is still going to sink in just four short weeks. Congressional Republicans need to start working with Democrats to negotiate a bipartisan budget agreement that includes funding for vital programs currently in limbo. “This bill fails to protect the 17,800 Dreamers in Washington state who make important contributions in our communities, classrooms and workplaces each and every day. These young people urgently need action following President Trump's suspension of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. “Repeated stopgap spending bills fail to fully fund public health care services, like Community Health Centers and do not adequately tackle growing problems, like the opioid epidemic. “Furthermore, the VA Choice program is quickly depleting its resources, which could lead to increased wait times for veterans trying to make medical appointments. This is unacceptable.” Larsen joined House Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to President Trump, outlining essential priorities for the 2018 budget agreement: Resources for communities to fight the opioid epidemic; Funding for the VA Choice program; Protections for Dreamers; Funding for CHIP and community health centers that does not jeopardize vital health coverage for Americans; Additional disaster recovery funding for Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, Florida, and states impacted by wildfires. “The bottom line is: families deserve better. Washingtonians deserve better. Budgetary brinksmanship deprives hardworking families, seniors and veterans of the vital services and safety-net programs they count on every day. They need a budget now – not later.” Larsen also voted against the last short-term Continuing Resolution in December. ###
01.03.2018	LYNNWOOD, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event at the Aloha Café in Lynnwood on Saturday, January 6th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Saturday, January 6th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at the Aloha Café 11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. PST Aloha Café 6808 196th Street Southwest Lynnwood, WA 98036 ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting against the short-term 2018 Continuing Resolution in the U.S. House of Representatives: “There is a ‘Scrooge’ every holiday season and this year – it’s Congressional Republicans. The best holiday gift Congress could give hardworking families is knowing their children will still have health insurance. However, Congressional Republicans chose to prioritize a greedy tax bill that favors corporations and the wealthiest Americans instead of the Children Health’s Insurance Program (CHIP). “It is inexcusable that Congress continues to delay reauthorizing of CHIP, which over 5,700 children in Washington state’s Second Congressional District depend on for comprehensive, high-quality health care. For years, the state’s Apple Health for Kids program has provided hardworking families in the Pacific Northwest with access to affordable health coverage to ensure that children can learn, grow and thrive. “Washingtonians deserve a better deal. Congress needs to get serious and start working to reach a budget compromise that both sides can agree on, not continue to fund the government two weeks at a time while vital safety-net programs lay in wait for crucial resources.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the United States Fire Administration, AFG, and SAFER Program Reauthorization Act of 2017 (H.R. 4661). The bill authorizes $750 million for both the Assistance to Firefights Grant (AFG) awards and Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) programs. These grant programs help provide training and equipment to firefighters and emergency first responders. In the past two years, nine local fire departments in Washington’s Second Congressional District have received funding under these programs. “SAFER and AFG provide firefighters and emergency responders the tools needed to save lives in our community,” said Larsen. “I will continue to work for local first responders by supporting these programs and I thank all first responders and fire fighters for putting your own lives on the line every day for others.” The bill passed the House of Representatives by voice vote yesterday. Larsen signed a letter of support for the AFG and SAFER Program Reauthorization Act earlier this month. ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting against the Republican tax conference report. “Once again, Congressional Republicans have put the interests of corporations and the wealthy ahead of what is best for hardworking American families. The latest partisan tax package will still drastically raise the deficit by $1.5 trillion, increase taxes on veterans and the middle-class, and deny vital comprehensive health coverage to over 39,000 Washingtonians in the district I represent. “The Republican tax conference report is nothing more than a permanent tax break for the wealthiest Americans at the expense of the middle class. Analysis from the Tax Policy Center found that the top one percent of Americans would receive an estimated 62 percent of the bill’s proposed tax cuts- that is more than double the George W. Bush-era tax cuts. In Washington state, the richest one percent will receive an average $7,750 tax cut under the GOP tax bill, while lower income Washingtonians face tax hikes – according to the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy. “I stand with my constituents who have called, sent letters, attended community coffees or otherwise made their voices heard about the harm this Republican tax bill would cause. Like the U.S. military retiree in Oak Harbor, who worries about how the GOP tax scam jeopardizes the retirement they have worked a lifetime for by raiding Medicare funds; the couple in Lynnwood who is concerned about the impact of the reduced mortgage interest and SALT deductions on their property value under the new bill and; the low- and middle income families throughout Washington state’s Second District who will struggle to make ends meet once the bill’s temporary, modest tax cuts end,” said Larsen. “Real bipartisan tax reform should simplify the tax code, support middle-class families and veterans, strongly invest in infrastructure, foster more well-paying jobs, and ensure access to affordable, high-quality health care. “I voted against this GOP tax scam and will continue to push for a better deal to benefit all Americans.” ###
12.19.2017	
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— On Tuesday, the U.S. House voted 356-70 to approve the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the conference committee, successfully secured provisions in the conference report that would benefit the Pacific Northwest including a larger budget for Impact Aid and increased funding for military communities with groundwater contamination. “The NDAA will strengthen military readiness, provide servicemembers with essential training and equipment, and support them with a 2.4 % military pay raise. I am pleased that, for the first time, the defense bill acknowledges that climate change is a direct threat to national security. And the bill rightly highlights the importance of diplomacy and working with allies as part of a complete national security strategy,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. Locally, the NDAA includes provisions that will benefit Northwest Washington’s military bases and families. It increases the authorization for Department of Defense Impact Aid, a program that provides funding to schools that educate servicemembers’ children but have reduced property tax revenues because of a military installation. Earlier this year, Larsen’s amendment increased Impact Aid authority from $30 million to $50 million, and the conference committee agreed on this higher level. “Impact Aid is critical for Washington’s military communities – including Oak Harbor,” said Larsen. “Increased funding for this program will strengthen Washington’s military bases and ensure that servicemembers’ children are receiving the best education possible.” Coupeville and Oak Harbor are among the many communities nationwide that face groundwater contamination from the military’s use of firefighting foam, which contains chemicals known as PFOA and PFOS. In a letter to conference committee members, Larsen requested an increase in the remediation budget for PFOA/PFOS, research into safe and effective alternate foams, and funding for a nationwide health impact study on PFOA/PFOS exposure. All of these proposals were included in the final legislation. “People have a right to clean drinking water. I am pleased that the conferees agreed that cleanup and scientific research to address PFOA/PFOS contamination was a priority. And I will work with the Navy to ensure Coupeville and Oak Harbor get the resources they need,” said Larsen. Other provisions shaped by Rep. Larsen include: Eliminating language in the House-passed bill which undermined the New START treaty Authorizing the acquisition of a polar icebreaker Closing a loophole which currently shields military retired pay from court orders to satisfy judgments in cases of child abuse (originally introduced by Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01)) Authorizing the purchase of 17 KC-46A tankers Promoting readiness of Navy mine warfare units Earlier this year, the House and Senate each passed a version of the NDAA. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, Larsen was a member of the conference committee tasked with reconciling hundreds of differences between the two bills into final legislation. In a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members, Larsen urged members to support provisions that would benefit national security and Northwest Washington’s military bases and families. ###
11.15.2017	
11.02.2017	MUKILTEO, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event at Sydney Bakery and Wine Bar in Mukilteo on Sunday, November 12th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Sunday, November 12th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at Sydney Bakery and Wine Bar 1:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. PDT Sydney Bakery and Wine Bar 613 5th Street Mukilteo, WA 98275 ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced the start of open enrollment today, encouraging Washingtonians to sign up for health insurance for 2018 under the Affordable Care Act. Since enacted, the Affordable Care Act continues to help thousands of people across Northwest Washington access high quality, comprehensive health care. “The Affordable Care Act is not dead – and Washington state continues to be a leader nationwide in expanding access for Washingtonians to high quality health insurance, so they do not have to worry about being denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. “Open enrollment for health coverage in 2018 begins today – and I encourage folks to get covered and stay covered by making sure they know their options for the coming year to keep themselves and their families healthy,” said Larsen. WATCH: Reps. Larsen and DelBene encourage Washingtonians to ‘get covered’ for 2018. Washington state has its own health insurance exchange, the Washington Healthplanfinder, which will extend the open enrollment period by one month. Last year, more than 200,000 residents used the Washington Healthplanfinder to enroll in a 2017 Qualified Health Plan. Since it first opened in 2013, the Washington Healthplanfinder has connected more than 1.8 million Washingtonians to coverage. Washington state residents have until December 15th to sign up for coverage that will begin on January 1st, 2018. Open enrollment in Washington state ends on January 15th. Washingtonians who need assistance have access to trained navigators on the Washington Healthplanfinder website. Residents can also check there to see if they are eligible for financial assistance with monthly premiums. For more information, visit Washington Healthplanfinder at www.wahealthplanfinder.org. ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on President Trump to work with Congress to allocate new, robust federal funding to address the opioid epidemic and implement evidence-based policies to effectively safeguard public health. Larsen sent a letter to the President expressing concern that declaring the opioid epidemic a public health emergency without additional new federal funding falls short of addressing the problem. “For far too long, the scourge of opioid addiction has devastated the lives of millions of Americans; disrupting families and destabilizing communities across the country. Unfortunately, this is not a new issue for Washington state. For generations, our communities have struggled to meet the growing needs of individuals seeking life-saving treatment and recovery services. “When the President declared the opioid epidemic a public health emergency, instead of a national emergency, and failed to allocate additional new federal funding he only hurt the problem. “I’ve met with law enforcement, healthcare providers, advocates, community leaders, individuals in recovery, and elected officials across my district on the opioid epidemic. Their stories show an immediate need for comprehensive medication-assisted treatment, increased awareness and availability of naloxone and other overdose-reversal tools, and prevention activities such as syringe exchange and safe drug take-back programs. “These steps would start to improve the coordination of the opioid epidemic response efforts across all levels of government. I call on President Trump to work with Congress and our partners to allocate new, robust federal funding to address this crisis. Read Larsen’s full letter HERE. In 2015 alone, the number of overdose deaths in Washington state exceeded the number deaths from car accidents or by firearms. In July 2017, Snohomish County had 37 opioid-related overdoses in just one week–ten of which occurred on a single day. ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on federal indictments against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his business partner Rick Gates: “Yesterday’s indictments send a clear message on the importance of the special counsel’s investigation. The charges against Paul Manafort and Rick Gates are serious and the American public deserves the truth. This investigation must continue unimpeded, with the full cooperation of the President. Furthermore, I reiterate my call for Congress to create a bipartisan, independent commission into Russian meddling in our elections. This commission is needed now more than ever. The protection of our democratic process is not a partisan issue, it is an American issue.” Larsen has cosponsored the bipartisan Protecting Our Democracy Act which would create an independent commission to investigate the full extent of Russian actions to influence the 2016 election. Additionally, Larsen has cosponsored H.Res.111, a Resolution of Inquiry directing the Department of Justice to provide the House of Representatives with all information related to President Trump and his associates’ financial conflicts of interest, ethics violations, and violations of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits elected officials from receiving payments from foreign governments. ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Darin LaHood (IL-18), co-chairs of the U.S.-China Working Group, today released the following statement following the conclusion of China’s 19th Party Congress: “As China’s 19th Party Congress concludes, U.S. Congress stands ready to work with the new party leadership. The United States and China face a number of shared opportunities, such as expanding economic and cultural exchange and promoting a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. In the days ahead, we look forward to working with our Congressional colleagues and with Chinese leadership to make progress on these issues while also strengthening our relationship, which remains one of the most important bilateral relationships in the world.” ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, issued the following statement today regarding the administration’s announcement of an Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Integration Pilot Program. “The drone industry holds enormous potential for American businesses, and the announcement today shows the administration seeks to foster safe development and integration of UAS into the national airspace. Today’s announcement is encouraging, and I look forward to continuing to work with my Congressional colleagues and all stakeholders on a comprehensive approach to move this burgeoning industry forward,” said Larsen. Larsen has helped lead Congressional efforts to establish clear regulations for commercial drones. In 2015, Larsen praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision to create a registration process for unmanned aircraft systems and in 2016 Larsen said the FAA’s final rule regarding the use of small drones was “an important first step in establishing rules of the road.” In the 115th Congress, Larsen has led a series of hearings on growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, alleviating congestion and improving user experience at Sea-Tac and reforming aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers and transport products to market more quickly. ###
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The U.S. House of Representatives last night passed S. 504, the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2017, which is identical to bipartisan legislation introduced in the House this year by Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Dan Donovan (NY-11), and Dave Reichert (WA-08). The legislation permanently reauthorizes the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC) program, which provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC region. APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim countries including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. Under that law, the authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018 – meaning that no new cards can be issued after that date – and all cards will expire by 2021, after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries. The legislation passed in the House last night permanently extends that authority, while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. S. 504 was introduced in the Senate by Senators Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and Steve Daines (R-MT). “This is great news for Washington state, where ties to the Asia Pacific run deep,” said Rep. Larsen, Co-Chair of the APEC Caucus. “By permanently preserving an important tool for business travelers, this bill will help strengthen economic exchange between the United States and the Asia Pacific region and grow the economy in the Pacific Northwest.” “This is a successful program that operates at no cost to taxpayers and makes New York businesses more competitive in the global economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Permanently reauthorizing this program is a win for New York businesses and for the American economy. I’m grateful that this bill received such broad bipartisan support and I look forward to seeing it signed into law.” Congressman Donovan said, “New York is a hub for a variety of industries and businesses that rely on foreign marketplaces. The APEC Business Travel Card helps Americans travel faster and more efficiently throughout the Asia Pacific region, allowing them to spend more time on business, and less time in airport lines. Last night’s bill passage is a win for U.S. businesses and workers who rely on this program to compete in an increasingly globalized economy. I look forward to seeing it swiftly signed into law.” “The future lies in the Asia Pacific region,” said Rep. Reichert. “Government officials and our business men and women must be able to engage with the world’s largest growing consumer-base living in Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation member countries. The ABTC program is used by 1,000 Washington residents alone and has proven successful in facilitating travel and making it easier for Americans to do business in this critical region. I am proud to have worked on this bipartisan, bicameral legislation and pleased my colleagues in the House voted to send it to the President’s desk.” Nearly 30,000 U.S. citizens currently hold cards through the ABTC program, including more than 1,000 in Washington. The ABTC program allows business travelers and government officials with business in APEC countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports, which saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol (CPB). The program runs entirely on user fees and costs nothing to taxpayers. Applicants must pay a $70 fee, must be U.S. citizens, and must pre-enroll in a U.S. trusted traveler program like Global Entry. Eligible applicants must be a “verified business person” engaged in APEC business – i.e., engaged in the trade of goods, provision of services, or conduct of investment activities in the APEC region – or a U.S. government official engaged in government activities in the APEC region. S. 504 permanently reauthorizes the program while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Organizations supporting the effort to reauthorize the ABTC program include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Asia Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, U.S. Council for International Business, National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Travel Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, Global Business Travel Association, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, National Center for APEC, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, Hawaii Tourism Authority, Chamber of Commerce Hawaii, and the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. The full text of the legislation is available HERE. ###
10.23.2017	OAK HARBOR, WA—On Saturday, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) wrapped up his sixth Veterans Forum of October – events he has held in San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties. These forums were opportunities for veterans to receive updates on legislation affecting them and get answers to questions about reforms at the Department of Veterans Affairs, health care, job training and housing. “A better deal for our veterans starts with listening – and that is exactly what I had a chance to do this week,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “A big thanks to veterans across the 2nd District who showed up to share ideas, concerns, and experiences directly with me – feedback that will strengthen my fight in Congress to get veterans a better deal.” Find photos from Larsen’s Veterans Forums HERE. Larsen held Veterans Forums in Friday Harbor, Lynnwood, Arlington, Sedro-Woolley, Bellingham and Oak Harbor. Including this week’s events, Larsen has held 63 Veterans Forums since 2001. Additionally, since 2015 Larsen’s office has helped 326 veterans resolve problems with federal agencies and receive over $260,000 in benefits. Larsen’s Fight for Veterans Larsen has long pushed to improve the well-being of the more than 56,000 veterans in the 2nd District. Highlights of his accomplishments include: Leading an effort to renew a transportation program that veterans rely on to get to and from health care appointments. Spearheading a provision to allow wounded veterans to access in vitro fertilization through the Department of Veterans Affairs. Pushing for resources to assist veterans experiencing homelessness through the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program. Helping organizations that serve veterans in all five of the counties of the Second District receive federal funding to help more veterans get permanent housing. Improving access to care for veterans in Northwest Washington who face geographical barriers including veterans living in South and Central Whidbey Island who must drive across Deception Pass to Mount Vernon or take a ferry to Seattle before they reach a VA doctor. Establishing a Community Based Outpatient Clinic in Mount Vernon, which now provides primary and specialty care, including mental health services, to veterans in Skagit County. ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today marked the passing of Dan O’Neal, a key figure at The Greenbrier Companies and a national leader on transportation issues. “Dan was a good friend and mentor on transportation issues in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. Over a long and distinguished career, including time as head of the Interstate Commerce Commission and as a staffer on Capitol Hill, Dan always exhibited his passion for public service. Dan also made a difference in Washington state – working with organizations like the Washington State Freight Mobility Board, Washington State Transportation Commission, Puget Sound Partnership, and many more. My thoughts are with his family and colleagues.” ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced his opposition to H.Con.Res. 71, the FY 2018 House Republican budget resolution. “Without a serious investment in job training, infrastructure, or higher education, this budget fundamentally misses the mark as a blueprint for America’s priorities,” said Larsen. “Coupled with outrageous tax breaks for billionaires and devastating cuts to Medicaid and other safety net programs, this budget paints a grim picture for America’s economic future.” The budget resolution, which passed the House today on a 219-206 vote, includes the following measures. Jobs & Job Training The FY 2018 House Republican budget resolution undermines the significant progress made under the bipartisan Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to connect Americans to high-quality job training programs. H.Con.Res. 71 further consolidates key workforce development programs, scales back the federal government’s role in ensuring access to career and technical education, and instructs the House Education & Workforce Committee to find $20 billion in savings from programs within their jurisdiction. To comply with this requirement, Congress will be forced to slash funding for programs that prepare job seekers for high-skilled, well-paying careers. Higher Education H.Con.Res. 71 cuts Pell Grants by $76 billion over the next decade. This would reduce the maximum Pell Grant from $5,920 to $4,860, even though Pell Grants already cover the smallest fraction of college costs in more than four decades. Additionally, the budget cuts student loan programs by up to $120 billion over the next 10 years. The report accompanying the budget resolution provides examples for how these cuts could be achieved, including: 1) charging low- and moderate-income students interest on their loans while they are still in school; 2) changing the terms of income-based repayment plans in ways that could increase some borrowers’ costs, and; 2) eliminating or scaling back loan forgiveness programs for borrowers who take public sector or non-profit jobs. Infrastructure Despite a 2017 report from the American Society of Civil Engineers, which gave American infrastructure a “D+” rating, the GOP budget cuts $254 billion in transportation funding the next decade – including the popular Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery Grant program. ###
10.03.2017	Washington, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement urging Congress to take action on legislation to prevent gun violence: “Thoughts and prayers can comfort, lend strength, and help heal – but they cannot prevent gun violence. Gun safety legislation can, specifically by: 1. Re-instating a ban on military-style assault weapons and high-capacity magazines above 10 rounds; 2. Lifting the ban on federally-funded research into the causes of gun violence, and; 3. Strengthening background checks, including by extending the period of time investigators have to complete a delayed background check from three to 14 days. These policies would not prevent every massacre, but they would give law enforcement more tools to prevent killings, provide lawmakers with a better understanding of firearm-related homicide and suicide, and limit the breadth and depth of damage would-be killers can inflict. In every corner of the United States, including in my District, gun massacres are a fact of life: In 2016, a gunman killed five people at the Cascade Mall in Burlington. In 2014, a student opened fire at Marysville-Pilchuck High School, killing four. In 2008, six people were killed in a Skagit County shooting spree. And some of my constituents have been affected by the October 1st shooting in Las Vegas. Congress has a responsibility to keep Americans safe from mass shootings. That is why I am once again calling on Members on both sides of the aisle to take responsibility for what is within our control – the law. No single law can prevent the actions of a murderer, but there are steps Congress can take to save lives and make communities safer from gun violence.” ###
10.03.2017	STANWOOD, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event at Striv Coffee House in Stanwood on Saturday, October 14th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Saturday, October 14th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at Striv Coffee House 9:00 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. PST Striv Coffee House 7208 267th Street Northwest Suite 103 Stanwood, WA 98292 ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today reacted following the mass shooting in Las Vegas: “This morning, I woke up to the tragic news of the mass shooting in Las Vegas. More than 50 people have been killed and hundreds of others have been wounded. I ask that everyone continue to support those who were affected, including local law enforcement, and offer strength, courage and healing to the Las Vegas community.” ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, Peter DeFazio (OR-04), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today reacted after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a short-term, six-month Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) extension. “I am disappointed,” said Larsen. “Instead of celebrating a bipartisan, long-term, and comprehensive FAA bill, Congress is once again on the verge of passing a short-term extension. This Congress alone, the Aviation Subcommittee has explored issues related to growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, and expediting safety certification so U.S. manufacturers can get products to market more quickly. Unfortunately, moving the ball down the field on these issues – which is required to maintain the competitiveness of American aviation – has been torpedoed yet again by a controversial plan to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system.” “Here we are again. Yet another short-term extension to keep the lights on at the FAA while Republicans insist on wasting more time on their crusade to privatize our Nation’s air traffic control system and hand over billions of dollars in public assets to a private corporation run by the major airlines. We could immediately pass a bipartisan, long-term bill that improves safety, enhances the air travel experience, encourages innovation and emerging technologies, provides for stable aviation program funding, and makes needed and targeted reforms to critical FAA programs. But instead, the House passed a short-term extension weighed down with non-FAA related Republican priorities. I urge my Republican colleagues to drop their futile effort to give away our public airspace to special interests and work with Democrats on a long-term bill,” said DeFazio. In the 115th Congress, Larsen led a series of hearings on growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, alleviating congestion and improving user experience at Sea-Tac and reforming aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers and transport products to market more quickly. The short-term FAA extension passed the House today after House Republicans failed to bring up for a vote the 21st Century AIRR Act, a long-term reauthorization that includes a controversial plan to strip air traffic control functions from the FAA and give them to a private corporation. ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after Senate Republicans announced that the Graham-Cassidy bill, also known as Trumpcare, does not have sufficient votes to pass the Senate before the September 30th deadline. “For the sixth time this Congress, Congressional Republicans have terrified, enraged, and ultimately mobilized millions of Americans by threatening to destroy the American health care system. And once again, the American people rose to the occasion and succeeded in stopping Trumpcare. Now is the time for Republicans and Democrats to come together behind the bipartisan marketplace stabilization effort, led by Senators Alexander and Murray, to improve the Affordable Care Act and create solutions that will lower health care costs, increase quality, and expand coverage.” ###
09.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with Reps. Reichert (WA-08), DelBene (WA-01) and Kind (WI-03), led a bipartisan coalition in calling on President Trump to continue honoring the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). In recent weeks it has been reported that the Trump Administration is considering withdrawing from the agreement. A withdrawal from the agreement would cause American businesses, farmers and workers to face high barriers to selling their products while benefiting competitors in Asia and Europe. “The U.S. relationship with Korea could not be more important than it is today. Growing and maintaining robust trading relationships in East Asia is our best tool to ensure peace and prosperity not only on the Korean peninsula but here at home as well. It would be a grave error to withdraw from the agreement,” said Reps. Larsen, Kind, Reichert and Dent. Find a copy of the letter here. The following members signed on to the letter: Rep. Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Reichert (WA-08), Rep. DelBene (WA-01), Rep. Kind (WI-03), Rep. Dent (PA-15), Rep. Royce (CA-39), Rep. Blumenauer (OR-03), Rep. Smith (NE-03), Rep. Tiberi (OH-12), Rep. Sewell (AL-07), Rep. Roskam (IL-06), Rep. Meeks (NY-05), Rep. Noem (SD-At-large), Rep. Himes (CT-04), Rep. Meehan (PA-07), Rep. Bera (D-CA), Rep. Walters (CA-07), Rep. Kelly (PA-03) and Rep. Murphy (FL-07). Since the agreement was signed total exports of goods and services from the United States to Korea have increased by $2.1 billion, over 3 percent, since 2011. The annual merchandise trade deficit with Korea declined in 2016. ###
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In recognition of Hunger Action Month, this week Representatives Don Young (AK-At Large) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) are highlighting bipartisan legislation they have introduced to fight childhood hunger and expand access to summer meal programs throughout the country. “Hunger Action Month is a very real reminder that we have a long way to go in addressing food security and hunger in the United States,” said Congressman Don Young. “This month we’re highlighting the important work of the Summer Meals Act, legislation we’ve proposed to maximize the impact of summer meal programs and eliminate red tape for local non-profit organizations that run them across the country. As a former teacher – who personally saw the plight of childhood hunger in my classroom – I did everything in my power to ensure my students had a nutritious meal in front of them each day. As a Congressman, my passion and advocacy for these issues is even stronger. This legislation is only one small step in expanding child nutrition programs, but will make an important difference for our nation’s youth who don’t have proper access to meals throughout the summer.” “Hunger does not abide by the school calendar, and Hunger Action Month recognizes that acting to address hunger, especially childhood hunger, is needed year-round,” said Congressman Rick Larsen. “The Summer Meals Act would be a major step forward in the fight to combat hunger by making sure kids get regular, healthy meals regardless of the season.” “Summer meals programs are effective partnerships between USDA, state agencies, local school districts, and private service providers,” said Christina Wong, Public Policy Manger at Northwest Harvest. “The Summer Meals Act offers smart, bipartisan, and common-sense solutions that will break down barriers for service providers, including many of our over 360 food pantry partners, so that they can do the good work of getting more meals to every child in need.” Nearly one in five people in Washington state and one in seven people in Alaska suffer from food insecurity. Across the nation, approximately 13 million American children live in food-insecure households. A further 6.5 million children in the U.S. live in areas where there is limited access to supermarkets, which reduces their ability to maintain a varied and nutritious diet. As a result, many families struggle with hunger at some point during the year. The Summer Meals Act of 2017 strengthens access to summer nutritional programs that reduce child hunger over the summer months, when low-income children lose access to free and reduced-price school meals. The bill would expand eligibility so that more students are able to participate in summer meals programs, better empower local organizations to help feed children year-round, and support transportation needs in rural areas where accessing summer meal programs is often more difficult. The full bill text of The Summer Meals Act of 2017 can be found HERE. The Summer Meals Act currently has 47 cosponsors: Reps. Don Young (AK-At Large), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Steve Cohen (TN-09), David Loebsack (IA-02), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Grace Meng (NY-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Peter Welch (VT-At Large), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Timothy Walz (MN-01), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Marc Veasey (TX-33), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Lucille Allard-Roybal (CA-40), James Langevin (RI-02), Jose Serrano (NY-15), James McGovern (MA-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Mark Takano (CA-41), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23), Sander Levin (MI-09), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Joseph Kennedy III (MA-04), Janice Schakowsky (IL-09), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Brenden Boyle (PA-13), John Katko (NY-24), John Sarbanes (MD-03), and Cedric Richmond (LA-02). ###
09.19.2017	OLYMPIA, WA – The U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) has awarded the Washington State Department of Commerce a sixth year of funding to help state small businesses grow through exporting. The $900,000 grant, part of the SBA’s State Trade Expansion Program (STEP), is the highest and maximum amount awarded from a total $18 million nationwide. Commerce will use the funds to continue a number of successful export assistance programs for small businesses, including export vouchers, support for industry focused trade shows and trade missions, inbound buyer events and export training. More than 580 small businesses around the state have benefited from about $5.1 million in STEP-funded support since the program’s inception through the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010. They have achieved over $512 million in sales, creating an estimated return on investment of about 100:1. Of these small businesses, 170 are located in 25 rural Washington counties – or almost 30 percent of all participating STEP companies. “In the Pacific Northwest, we know that trade is crucial to growing the economy,” Washington Senator Maria Cantwell said. “The STEP program has already supported 2,770 jobs in Washington state. With these new grants, I am certain more Washington businesses will create more jobs by seizing the opportunity to increase exports to growing markets overseas.” “The STEP program helps support hundreds of local exporters,” said U.S. Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) “and every dollar spent through STEP returns 98 dollars to Washington’s economy. This nearly million-dollar investment will help create jobs and boost Washington state’s small businesses.” “Washington is the most trade-centered state in America and no other has shown a larger return on investment from our State Trade Expansion Program (STEP) work. Congratulations to our international trade team at Commerce on again being rewarded with the largest possible STEP grant to continue their outstanding assistance to our state’s new and growing exporters,” Gov. Jay Inslee said. “Our strong success doesn’t happen by accident – it is possible only when we invest in promoting our world-class products, our incredible ports and helping small and mid-size business access foreign markets.” “One in three jobs throughout Washington state are tied to international trade, so growing exports has direct impact on strengthening communities all over the state,” said Commerce Director Brian Bonlender. “Small businesses need targeted programs such as STEP and the Export Finance Assistance Center of Washington to help them tap into worldwide markets. We use these flexible federal dollars to introduce new companies to exporting and help rural communities participate in our state’s trade economy." ###
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host six Veterans Forums in San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties. The forums, which begin on October 15th, are opportunities for veterans to receive updates on legislation affecting them and get answers to questions about reforms at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), health care, job training and housing. “Veterans know their communities better than anybody,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, “and that is part of the reason these forums are so important – hearing veterans’ questions, concerns, and ideas directly from the community is the single best way I know how to become a better veterans’ advocate in Congress.” Go to www.larsen.house.gov/veteransforums or click HERE to view a full list Veterans Forums in October. Larsen’s Fight for Veterans Larsen has long pushed to improve the well-being of veterans in the 2nd District. Highlights of his accomplishments Leading an effort to renew a transportation program that veterans rely on to get to and from health care Spearheading a provision to allow wounded veterans to access in vitro fertilization (IVF) through the Department of Veterans Pushing for resources to assist veterans experiencing homelessness through the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) Helping organizations that serve veterans in all five of the counties of the Second District receive federal funding to help more veterans get permanent Improving access to care for veterans in Northwest Washington who face geographical barriers including veterans living in South and Central Whidbey Island who must drive across Deception Pass to Mount Vernon or take a ferry to Seattle before they reach a VA doctor. Establishing a Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Mount Vernon, which now provides primary and specialty care, including mental health services, to veterans in Skagit County. Sunday, October 15, 2017 Larsen will host a Veterans Forum in Friday Harbor 12:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. PST Friday Harbor American Legion Post 163 110 1st Street and Court Street Friday Harbor, WA 98259 Wednesday, October 18, 2017 Larsen will host a Veterans Forum in Lynnwood 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. PST Lynnwood City Council Chamber 19100 44th Avenue West Lynnwood, WA 98036 Friday, October 20, 2017 Larsen will host a Veterans Forum in Arlington 1:00 pm. – 3:00 p.m. PST Arlington American Legion Post 76 115 North Olympic Avenue Arlington, WA 98223 Larsen will host Veterans Forum in Sedro-Woolley 4:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. PST Sedro-Woolley Community Center 703 Pacific Street Sedro-Woolley, WA 98284 Saturday, October 21, 2017 Larsen will host a Veterans Forum in Bellingham 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. PST Bellingham American Legion Post 7 1688 West Bakerview Road Bellingham, WA 98226 Larsen will host a Veterans Forum Oak Harbor 4:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. PST Oak Harbor VFW Post 7392 3037 Goldie Road Oak Harbor, WA 98277 ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement on H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017: “I oppose H.R. 38,” said Larsen. “Voters and advocates across Washington state tell me that making our communities safer from gun violence is a high priority. However, this bill would do the opposite. It would force Washington to turn a blind eye to individuals from states with laxer permitting standards who carry a concealed weapon in our state. I am also concerned this bill would make it harder for law enforcement officials to do their already difficult jobs.” “H.R. 38 tosses out the window laws that Washington state residents have fought hard for and overwhelmingly approved,” said Margy Lavelle, Chair of Safe and Sane Skagit. “Thank you to Rep. Larsen for standing up for your constituents and opposing H.R. 38. Lives are at stake on this one.” ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) joined Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) and Congressman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to help rural veterans get to and from their medical appointments more easily. The Rural Veterans Transportation Enhancement Act will make permanent three successful initiatives that provide veterans living in rural areas with transportation services and reimbursement for their travel to VA medical facilities. Not only do these initiatives ease the burden for veterans traveling lengthy distances for care, but they have proven to save taxpayer dollars and reduce the number of missed medical appointments at VA. This legislation will also streamline the certification process for volunteers who step forward to help transport veterans to their appointments. “Veterans should not have to worry about how to get to their health care appointments, but too often travel is a real burden, especially for veterans in rural communities,” said Rep. Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The bipartisan Rural Veterans Transportation Enhancement Act will give veterans peace of mind that they will be able to access the health care they need, regardless of where they live.” “Our country has an obligation to make sure veterans who sacrificed so much on our behalf always have access to high-quality care, and this legislation is a strong step forward in making good on that promise,” said Sen. Murray, a senior member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “I’m especially proud to support initiatives that break down barriers to care and aim to make things a bit easier for our military families.” The Rural Veterans Transportation Enhancement Act will: Expand a pilot program that reimburses veterans and eligible beneficiaries for travelling to Vet Centers for mental health care and counseling. Make the Veterans Transportation Service program, which allows local VA facilities to hire drivers and purchase vehicles to transport veterans to their appointments, permanent. Extend a grant that allows Veterans Service Organizations and State Veterans Service Agencies to explore new approaches to provide transportation or travel assistance. Expedite the certification process for volunteer drivers serving veterans through the Veterans Transportation Service program. This legislation is endorsed by the Disabled American Veterans. ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, and Peter DeFazio (D-OR), the top-ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today reacted to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report finding the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) work to modernize the Nation’s aviation infrastructure and air traffic control (ATC) system is on budget and that ATC privatization may jeopardize modernization efforts. “NextGen is on track and today’s GAO report shows it is also on budget,” said Larsen. “Plans to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system threaten the progress made by NextGen and threaten to derail a comprehensive, long-term FAA bill along with it.” “Today’s report confirms that light is at the end of the NextGen tunnel,” said DeFazio. “The GAO validated the fact that NextGen is within the cost range that the FAA predicted in 2007, refuting claims by FAA critics that NextGen is somehow over budget. Moreover, the GAO found that the controversial proposal by congressional Republicans and the Trump administration to privatize the air traffic control system and hand it over to special interests is, itself, a major challenge to continued NextGen implementation. Authorization of the FAA expires at the end of September. If Republicans in Congress and the Trump administration are serious about improving the air traffic control system, they should abandon their risky privatization proposal and get to work to pass a bill that will provide a stable and predictable funding stream for our aviation system.” To see DeFazio speaking about the report, click here. Highlights of the GAO report include: • Although NextGen initiatives and programs have changed over time, the FAA’s 2016 cost estimates for the government and industry ($20.6 billion and $15.1 billion, respectively) are both within the range of 2007 cost estimates. • Surface traffic operations at 39 of the 40 busiest airports in the United States have been improved by NextGen. • The FAA has adopted an enterprise risk management approach—a “forward-looking management approach . . . to assess risks and opportunities”—to reduce risks among NextGen programs. • The risk of privatization of the air traffic control system presents a major challenge to NextGen implementation.
09.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after reports that President Trump decided to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, with a six-month delay in enforcement. “If reports are true that the administration will delay ending DACA for six months, then Congress must act soon and pass legislation to make the program permanent. The administration is not off the hook, however. It still must sign a bill Congress passes. I will work to get a bill that maintains this vital program on the administration's desk.” Larsen is a cosponsor of the American Hope Act of 2017, a bill that aims to protect Dreamers and DACA recipients from deportation and gives them the opportunity to apply for residency status if certain requirements are met. ###
08.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Adam Smith (WA-09), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Denny Heck (WA-10), Suzan DelBene (WA-01) along with U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today wrote an urgent letter to the heads of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to press the two agencies to take quick and decisive action to address the impacts of hundreds of thousands of escaped farmed Atlantic salmon in Washington state waters. Citing the importance of wild salmon fisheries to Tribes, fishermen, and ecosystems in the state, the members of Congress are calling on NOAA and the Army Corps to direct federal resources to mitigate the risks of this incident, including the capture of the escaped farmed salmon. The letter also calls on the Army Corps to work to stop all permitting for new net pens or expansions to existing pens, as well as prioritize requests to update or maintain existing pens. “Pacific salmon are central to our economy, our culture, and our environment in the Pacific Northwest, and are a critical part of marine and estuarine ecosystems in Washington state,” the members wrote. “The released Atlantic salmon pose a threat to wild Pacific salmon, including multiple endangered and threatened stocks in the region. Tribes, fishermen, and state agencies are working to respond to the escapement but the scale of the release calls for immediate and direct federal response…” The farmed salmon escaped from a damaged facility owned by Cooke Aquaculture on August 19th and 20th. Since the breach, farmed Atlantic salmon have been found as far afield as Canadian waters on the West side of Vancouver Island, as well as the Skagit and Nooksack Rivers. The released Atlantic salmon pose a threat to wild Pacific salmon, including multiple endangered and threatened stocks in the region. Farmed salmon tend to be larger and could outcompete wild salmon for critical resources such as prey and preferred habitat, which is important for spawning. Tribes and federal and state agencies have worked tirelessly towards restoration of wild salmon populations in Puget Sound. At a time when stocks of many types of wild Pacific salmon are at historic lows, the escape of thousands of farmed salmon could be a devastating setback. The members also asked the agency heads to conduct a review of the integrity and operation of all currently operating net pen structures to address concerns of further accidents at existing facilities. Text of the letter can be found below. Dear Acting Administrator Friedman and Mr. Lamont, We write to request the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) immediately act to minimize the impact of the Atlantic salmon net pen failure near Cypress Island in Skagit County, Washington. The released Atlantic salmon pose a threat to wild Pacific salmon, including multiple endangered and threatened stocks in the region. Tribes, along with federal and state agencies have worked tirelessly to restore wild salmon in Puget Sound and the escapement of thousands of farmed salmon could be a devastating setback. Pacific salmon are central to our economy, our culture, and our environment in the Pacific Northwest, and are a critical part of marine and estuarine ecosystems in Washington state. Pacific salmon support treaty rights for Tribes throughout the region, commercial and recreational fishers, as well as predators like the endangered Southern resident orcas. On August 19th, potentially hundreds of thousands of farmed Atlantic salmon were released into the Puget Sound ecosystem due to the structural failure of a net pen. While the fish farm facility was permitted under Washington state law, the escapement may negatively impact resources under the jurisdiction of NOAA, the Army Corps, and other federal agencies. Most concerning is the threat farmed Atlantic salmon pose to the wild Pacific salmon populations stocks in Puget Sound. Farmed salmon tend to be larger and could outcompete wild salmon for critical resources such as prey and preferred habitat, which is important for spawning. Tribes, fishermen, and state agencies are working to respond to the escapement but the scale of the release calls for immediate and direct federal response including mitigation, scientific support, and funding to improve response and capture of the released Atlantic salmon. Further, as other net pens remain in our waters, we request the Army Corps halt all permitting for new net pens or expansions to existing net pens, while prioritizing permit requests to upgrade and maintain existing net pens. In addition, we ask NOAA and the Army Corps to review the integrity and operation of all existing net pen structures to determine any additional threats to wild salmon in the area and prevent any further escapement of farmed salmon into our waters. We appreciate your ongoing work to restore Pacific salmon in Puget Sound and throughout the Pacific Northwest. Sincerely, ###
08.24.2017	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan delivered a speech at Boeing’s Everett facility. “I want to welcome Speaker Ryan to Washington state and Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. The Boeing workers with whom the Speaker met are integral to Boeing’s success as the state’s largest exporter, and underscore why it is so important that Washington, where forty percent of jobs depend on trade, maintain its competitiveness and create more good-paying jobs. But by ignoring what U.S. workers need to compete and win in the global economy – such as STEM skills to take on the jobs of tomorrow or roads and bridges to help move people and goods to market – Speaker Ryan’s tax plan proposes the same thing the GOP has proposed for decades: a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans and businesses at the expense of American workers.” ###
08.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced the launch of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge & Hackathon – an opportunity for students to learn key computer science skills by creating their own original applications. The competition – which runs through November 1st – is open to k-12 students who live in or attend school in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. Students may compete as individuals or in teams up to four. Local experts will evaluate submissions and winners will be announced in early December. The 2017 Hackathon, which will be hosted at Whatcom Community College, will take place October 7-8, 2017, for students participating in this year’s Congressional App Challenge. No formal coding skills are required to participate, and students are encouraged to come with an idea for an app, or the beginnings of a project. Several coding lessons will be taught on both days, and students will have the opportunity to work on their apps with a mentor as well as present their apps to Congressman Larsen, Whatcom Community College staff and peers. “The 2017 Congressional App Challenge and Hackathon are perfect opportunities for students in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District to give coding a try,” said Larsen. “This competition is just one more way to help make sure young folks in our community gain the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) skills needed to find good-paying STEM jobs and grow our economy in the Pacific Northwest.” Students can RSVP for the 2017 Hackathon HERE & sign up for the 2017 Congressional App Challenge HERE. In 2016, then-Burlington-Edison high school senior Alexandria Kissas won the Congressional App Challenge for Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. By some estimates there are nearly a quarter of a million unfilled programming jobs in the United States, and according to the Boston Consulting Group, there are as many as 25,000 unfilled science, technology, engineering and mathematics jobs in Washington state. The competition is an effort to maintain American competitiveness by proactively inspiring youth to pursue crucial STEM skills. Eligible students can sign up to participate in the App Challenge at https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/. Additional questions can be directed to Laura Gelwicks in Congressman Larsen’s office at Laura.Gelwicks@mail.house.gov or (425) 252-3188. ###
08.07.2017	SKAGIT COUNTY, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that Viva Farms in Burlington has been awarded a $488,758 Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive Grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This program supports projects aimed at increasing the purchase of fruits and vegetables among low-income individuals and families that participate in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. "By giving farmers tools for success, Viva Farms is helping feed Washingtonians with healthy, locally grown food,” said Larsen, “and the resources announced today will spur efforts to create sustainable solutions to hunger.” "It just makes sense for the USDA to invest and connect the produce from local family farms to local consumers who need food assistance,” said Michael Frazier, Executive Director of Viva Farms. “This will help ensure the viability of family farms, while at the same time creating access to healthy food for low income families in our community." One in seven Washingtonians rely on the SNAP program, which is facing major budget cuts proposed by the Trump administration. In June, Larsen held a roundtable with anti-hunger advocates, including representatives from Viva Farms, to discuss how President Trump’s FY 2018 budget proposal could impact Skagit County anti-hunger programs. Last month, Larsen toured Viva to learn more about its incubator program, which helps new farmers learn how to farm and experienced farmers launch businesses by sharing resources such as education, training, equipment, technical assistance, capital, land, and markets. Click HERE for photos of Larsen’s July tour of Viva Farms. Viva Farms was established in 2009 to help new farmers launch and grow businesses by providing agricultural and business support. ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that provisions he successfully secured in June to support local military bases, reduce government waste, and boost nuclear oversight passed the U.S. House on a 344-81 vote as part of the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. “By supporting Washington’s military bases and families, accelerating the Department of Defense’s technological modernization and improving nuclear oversight, this bill takes important steps in the right direction,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “At the same time, I am disappointed the House is again calling for an increase in spending without developing a responsible plan for funding that increase.” Supporting Local Communities Pilot safety remains a major problem with the EA-18G Growler. Spurred by Larsen and others, the House authorized an additional $10 million above the budget request for development of improved pilot sensor technology in order to study and address hypoxia and related conditions. Larsen also secured resources for the Navy to address groundwater contamination resulting from the use of fire suppressants. The bill includes an additional $30 million for Navy perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA)/ perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) remediation. It also authorizes a robust study of the health effects of PFOA/PFOS exposure. Continuing a long history of advocating for Impact Aid, a program that provides funding to school districts that educate large numbers of military-connected students, Larsen spearheaded an amendment to increase resources for Impact Aid from $30 to $50 million. Reducing Government Waste Larsen led a push in the NDAA for the Department of Defense to accelerate its use of high-tech bar codes. By marking parts and other assets with unique identifiers, the Department of Defense can better manage inventory, ensure spare parts are where they need to be, and improve management of its supply chain. Ultimately, Larsen’s provision will help reduce waste and increase oversight of inventory. Technology At Larsen’s urging, the NDAA reaffirms the committee’s support for accelerating the Department of Defense’s adoption of cloud computing in order to save money, increase flexibility, and enhance security. An amendment offered in committee by Larsen also encourages the Department of Defense to explore the benefits of large scale cloud computing for enhanced analytic capability. Larsen also pressed the Department of Defense to advance its understanding of the next generation of threats deployed forces face. His amendment directed the Department of Defense to brief Congress on the drone threats the U.S. military faces overseas and emerging technologies to counter them, including directed energy and trained raptors. The briefing will include an analysis of host nation regulations, and what restrictions this places on self-defense. Larsen also asked for a briefing on technologies that can remotely sense multiple types of improvised explosive devices. Nuclear Oversight With the nation currently modernizing nuclear weapons and technology, Larsen pushed for increased oversight of this costly undertaking. Larsen successfully included an amendment to require the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to annually assess whether the agency’s plans are affordable. According to a 2017 GAO report, the NNSA frequently overestimated its future budgets – meaning nuclear modernization plans may not be executable. Larsen also included an amendment to extend the current prohibition on developing mobile inter-continental ballistic missiles through the end of FY 19. During floor consideration, the House unanimously approved an amendment authored by Rep. Larsen to create a plan to detect proliferation of nuclear material. Lastly, Larsen pushed for an amendment authored by Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01), to increase accountability for child abusers. The amendment would close a loophole which currently shields military retirement pay from being paid to victims of child abuse and help ensure justice for survivors of child abuse. ###
07.12.2017	SKAGIT COUNTY, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event in Burlington on Sunday, July 16th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Since January, Larsen has held town halls in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley, and Friday Harbor. Sunday, July 16th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at the North Cove Coffee 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. PST North Cove Coffee 1130 South Burlington Boulevard Burlington, WA 98233 ###
07.12.2017	SNOHOMISH COUNTY, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) are invited to meet with the Congressman at a “community coffee” event in Everett on Saturday, July 15th. Community coffees are opportunities for Larsen to hear directly from his constituents about issues important to them in an informal discussion setting. Since January, Larsen has held town halls in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley, and Friday Harbor. Saturday, July 15th Larsen will hold a “community coffee” at the Loft Coffee Bar 10:00 a.m. –11:30 a.m. PST The Loft Coffee Bar 1309 Hewitt Avenue Everett, WA 98201 ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) yesterday helped shape the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 to include key priorities to support local military bases, reduce government waste, promote nuclear oversight, and protect women and men in uniform. “This legislation makes important investments in America’s national security by investing in equipment and in our servicemembers,” said Larsen. “Still, the bill is not perfect – once again, the House Armed Services Committee is calling for increased defense spending with no plan to pay for it. But I am pleased that the bill was written with bipartisan input and priorities I advocated for, including boosting resources Impact Aid to help schools better serve military students and their communities.” Supporting Local Military Communities Pilot safety remains a major problem with the EA-18G Growler. Spurred by Larsen and others, the committee authorized an additional $10 million above the budget request for development of improved pilot sensor technology in order to study and address hypoxia and related conditions. Larsen also pushed the committee to give the Navy resources to address groundwater contamination resulting from the use of fire suppressants. The bill includes an additional $30 million for Navy perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA)/ perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) remediation. Larsen continued his long advocacy for Impact Aid, a program that provides funding to school districts that educate large numbers of military-connected students. His amendment to increase resources for Impact Aid from $30 to $50 million was included in the final bill that now heads to the House floor. Reducing Government Waste Larsen led a push for the Department of Defense to accelerate its use of high-tech bar codes. By marking parts and other assets with unique identifiers, the Department of Defense can better manage inventory, ensure spare parts are where they need to be, and improve management of its supply chain. Ultimately, Larsen’s provision will help reduce waste and increase oversight of inventory. Technology At Larsen’s urging, the NDAA reaffirms the committee’s support for accelerating the Department of Defense’s adoption of cloud computing, in order to save money, increase flexibility, and enhance security. An amendment offered by Larsen also encourages the Department of Defense to explore the benefits of large scale cloud computing for enhanced analytic capability. Larsen also pressed the Department of Defense to think about the next generation of threats deployed forces face. His amendment directed the Department of Defense to brief Congress on the drone threats the U.S. military faces overseas and emerging technologies to counter them, including directed energy and trained raptors. The briefing will include an analysis of host nation regulations, and what restrictions this places on self-defense. Larsen also asked for a briefing on technologies that can remotely sense multiple types of improvised explosive devices. Nuclear Oversight With the nation modernizing nuclear weapons and technology, Larsen pushed for increased oversight of this costly undertaking. Larsen successfully included an amendment to require the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) to annually assess whether the agency’s plans are affordable. According to a 2017 GAO report, the NNSA frequently overestimated its future budgets – meaning nuclear modernization plans may not be executable. Larsen also included an amendment to extend the current prohibition on developing mobile inter-continental ballistic missiles through the end of FY 19. Lastly, Larsen pushed for an amendment authored by Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01), to increase accountability for child abusers. The amendment would close a loophole which currently shields military retirement pay from being paid to victims of child abuse and help ensure justice for survivors of child abuse. The NDAA now heads to the full House for a vote. A summary of the House NDAA is available here. ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today continued to lead the charge for a bipartisan, comprehensive, long-term bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). In a markup of the House Transportation Committee, Larsen called on his Republican and Democratic colleagues to focus on areas of bipartisan common ground. “My belief continues to be that this bill could be a slam dunk, but for the proposal to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system,” said Larsen. “There is no doubt that NextGen had some implementation issues at the start, but the FAA has made tremendous progress in the last few years and keeps delivering success after success. In fact, the FAA has already delivered $2.7 billion in NextGen benefits and expects $161 billion in benefits by 2030. On the other hand, the only thing privatization has delivered is an extension in September 2015, an extension in March 2016, an extension last July and most likely another FAA extension coming up in September.” In the 115th Congress, Larsen led a series of hearings exploring the needs of aviation stakeholders, including: growth in the drone and commercial space industry, modernizing the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, alleviating congestion and improving user experience at Sea-Tac and reforming aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers and transport products to market more quickly. During today’s markup, Larsen highlighted the Aviation Funding Stability Act, legislation which aims to strengthen and speed up the reforms taking place at the FAA and its air traffic control system through the NextGen initiative. Larsen, Ranking Member DeFazio and every Democratic member of the Transportation Committee introduced the legislation earlier this month. The Aviation Funding Stability Act of 2017 would help ensure investments in the U.S. aviation system are not subject to Congressional dysfunction and would streamline the acquisition of NextGen technology, equipment certification, and ATC management. As part of the legislation to reauthorize the FAA, Larsen successfully championed a consumer protection provision aimed at requiring airlines to inform customers what relief – such as food, hotel vouchers, or seats on another airline – they can expect in the event of widespread network disruptions, and another provision to advance a study on best practices and current air carrier and airport training policies for people with disabilities. Additionally, Larsen secured a provision requiring minimum rest periods for flight attendants. Larsen has for years helped lead the charge for long-term, comprehensive FAA re-authorization. ###
06.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its score detailing the projected impacts of the Senate version of Trumpcare. Today’s score found that under the Senate Trumpcare bill, 22 million more Americans would lack health insurance over the next decade (for a total of 49 million uninsured by 2026) and critical federal funding to states would be cut by $772 billion. “Under Trumpcare, 49 million total Americans – more people than at any other time – will be uninsured within ten years. That is record-breaking in all the wrong ways,” said Larsen. “Additionally, like the House version, the Senate version of Trumpcare raises premiums, puts essential health care out of reach for millions of Americans, and slashes financial assistance for hardworking families – all to provide major tax cuts to the wealthy and big businesses.” Key provisions of Trumpcare include gutting the Medicaid program, repealing the individual mandate and causing uncertainty in the healthcare marketplace, doing away with the Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, decimating funding for Planned Parenthood, and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance America’s health care infrastructure. This legislation also reduces health care quality and access by allowing states to subject people who have temporary lapses in care to six-month waiting periods for insurance and to choose whether to keep the essential health benefits requirement, which would allow insurance companies to stop covering necessary services like maternity care and treatment for opioid abuse. In Washington state, the uninsured rate dropped from 14 to 5.8 percent thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and across the country the bill helped cut the personal bankruptcy filings in half. Since January, Larsen has held eight Affordable Care Act “Town Talks” in towns and cities across Northwest Washington – hearing from more than 1000 constituents in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley, and Friday Harbor. ###
06.15.2017	Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), today announced that nine Washington students he nominated to U.S. Service Academies have accepted offers for the Class of 2021. Allison R. Kleindon of Oak Harbor will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; Dean P. Testment of Oak Harbor will attend the U.S. Naval Academy; Jonathan B Billingslea of Oak Harbor will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; Tarra A. Moore of Langley will attend the United States Air Force Academy; Christina A. Dominowski of Arlington will attend the U.S. Naval Academy; Ian A. Fujinaka of Arlington will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; Jordan M. Burtt of Brier will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point; Tiffany A. Johnstone of Marysville will attend the U.S. Naval Academy, and; Harrison P. Goodrich of Lopez Island will attend the U.S. Naval Academy. “The Second Congressional district is home to some of the most talented young people in Washington state,” said Larsen. “Each year I have the privilege to nominate students to attend military service academies and I am always impressed by students' achievements and commitment to public service. I applaud these young women and men for choosing careers of service to the United States, and I congratulate them on their acceptance to these prestigious institutions and I wish them luck in their future military careers.” Allison R. Kleindon of Oak Harbor will attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Kleindon first became interested in the service academies when her Grandfather gave her a tour of the Air Force Academy where he had previously graduated and taught classes. “I found [my grandfather’s] love for the academy and his classmates inspiring and knew that if I was going into the military as an officer, I would need to look into an academy,” said Kleindon. “After attending all of the Summer Seminars and West Point's Summer Leader Experience, I knew the academies were a perfect fit for me.” Dean P. Testeman of Oak Harbor will attend the U.S. Naval Academy. Testeman, an Eagle Scout, says he was motivated to apply to a Service Academy because he wanted to serve and carry on both his family’s legacy of service and the legacy of service of those who came before him. Jonathan B. Billingslea of Oak Harbor will attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. “I want to become a better leader and I want to protect the nation,” said Billingslea. Tarra A Moore of Langely will attend the U.S. Air Force Academy. Moore attended South Whidbey High School and says her motivation to apply to the Service Academy because she wanted to attend one of the toughest schools in the country as well as serve her country. Christina A. Dominowski of Arlington will attend the U.S. Naval Academy. Dominowski will graduate from Arlington High School. She hopes to major in computer science or mechanical engineering. “I love how supportive the communities are and the camaraderie the students have among each other,” said Dominowski. “I hope to be an inspiration for many other girls to pursue a career in the military.” Ian A. Fujinaka of Arlington will attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Fujinaka has been a member of the Civil Air Patrol for the last seven years and was motivated to attend a Service Academy because it is the highest level of service he could think of. Jordan M. Burtt of Brier will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point. Burtt graduated from Kings High School in Shoreline. He applied to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point because he wanted to make a difference. “I don't want to stand on the sidelines and watch what is happening in the world,” said Burtt. “I want to be involved in shaping the future of our country. I see being an Army Officer as the perfect vehicle to accomplish this and West Point as the premier leadership training program in the world. I'm honored to be a part of it.” Tiffany A. Johnstone of Marysville will attend the U.S. Naval Academy. Johnstone attended the Naval Academy Preparatory School this past year. She was motivated to apply to attend a Service Academy by the opportunity for challenge. “I seek to challenge myself each and every day,” said Johnstone. “I enjoy learning and problem-solving through adversity and I perceived the academies as places I could achieve those goals.” Harrison P. Goodrich of Lopez Island will attend the U.S. Naval Academy. Goodrich attended the Naval Academy Preparatory School this past year. He was ranked number one in his high school class and served on the student council at Lopez Island High School. Goodrich is a volunteer firefighter and a Student Emergency Medical Services member, a role in which he assists with the Island paramedics and EMTs. When asked what motivated him to apply to attend a Service Academy, Goodrich responded, “I live in the best country in the world and it would be an honor to serve her.” Larsen recently announced that his office is now accepting applications for the class of 2022. More information can be found on his website.
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–Veterans suffering from service-connected infertility received good news today as the House Appropriations Committee approved a provision offered by Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Julia Brownley (CA-26) aimed at preserving veterans’ access to advanced fertility treatments. Thousands of veterans have returned from Iraq and Afghanistan with injuries that leave them unable to conceive without assistance, and until recently the VA was unable to provide most fertility treatments because of a 1992 ban enacted by Congress. In September 2016, Larsen helped pass a provision – originally included in the 2017 Veterans Affairs spending bill by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) – to allow the VA to provide assisted reproductive technology, of which IVF is the most common. But without further Congressional action, the 1992 ban will go back into effect at the end of fiscal year 2018. Larsen and Brownley’s provision would extend the VA’s authority to provide assisted reproductive technology though the end of 2019. “This is a small, but important step toward permanently guaranteeing veterans access to fertility coverage,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I commend Chairman Dent, Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Lowey for including this provision and urge my colleagues to support veterans’ access to the treatment they need to start families. As this process moves forward I remain committed to building on this language, including through dedicated resources for this care.” “Being a mother is one of the great joys of my life, we owe our veterans who have suffered reproductive injuries the ability to fulfill their dream of raising a family of their own,” said Congresswoman Brownley. “I am pleased this bill maintains VA coverage for assisted reproductive technology and adoption services, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that these services are permanently available to our nation’s veterans and their families.” A single IVF treatment can cost $12,000 or more. In November, Larsen, Brownley and Ranking Member Wasserman Schultz led a bipartisan letter to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald urging swift adoption of the new benefits made available by the spending bill which passed in September. ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after five individuals, including Congressman Steve Scalise (LA-01) and two Capitol Police officers, were shot during a Congressional baseball game practice: “From the bottom of my heart, I want to thank our courageous Capitol Police officers, whose actions today helped stop the shooter from hurting more people. Rep. Scalise, the Capitol Police, staff, volunteers and the families of everyone affected by this morning’s senseless attack are in my prayers.” ###
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Kathleen Rice (NY–04) and Dan Donovan (R-NY) have introduced legislation to permanently reauthorize the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card (ABTC) program, which provides access to fast-track immigration lanes at airports for travelers who conduct verified business in the APEC region. Senators Mazie Hirono (D-HI) and Steve Daines (R-MT) introduced companion legislation in the Senate earlier this year. “The APEC Business Travel Card program works for Washington state, which has deep economic ties with nations in the Asia-Pacific,” said Rep. Larsen, Co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “For years, I have fought hard to push for reauthorization of this program. The APEC Business Travel Cards Reauthorization Act would permanently promote engagement between the United States and the Asia-Pacific by maintaining an important tool for business travelers in Washington and throughout the United States. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this much-needed legislation passed.” “This is a successful program that operates at no cost to taxpayers and makes New York businesses more competitive in the global economy,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Allowing ABT Cards to expire would be a mistake that puts American business travelers at a disadvantage, and our legislation reflects a common-sense, bipartisan commitment to reauthorize the program permanently. I’m glad that this is a bipartisan effort and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill forward in the House.” Congressman Donovan said, “New York is a hub for a variety of industries and businesses that rely not just on domestic sales, but on foreign marketplaces as well. The APEC Business Travel Card helps Americans travel faster and more efficiently throughout the Asia-Pacific region, allowing them to spend more time on business, and less time in airport lines. We must ensure that our business leaders have the resources they need to compete in an increasingly globalized economy, which is why I’m proud to support the permanent extension of this program.” “Increased trade and engagement with countries in the Asia-Pacific region is critical for American businesses and workers,” said Rep. Reichert. “The APEC Business Travel Card has given our businesses improved access to this region and an opportunity to build relationships with important trading partners. I am glad to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make this program permanent, to strengthen our partnerships in the region and lead to the creation of good-paying jobs in Washington and the United States.” “The APEC Business Travel Card has helped hundreds of Hawaii residents travel and conduct business with ease across a region critical to our local economy and jobs,” said Senator Hirono. “We cannot allow this successful program to expire, which is why I am proud to introduce this bill to provide business travelers certainty and further enhance our country’s engagement with the nations of the Asia-Pacific.” APEC, a forum of 21 Pacific Rim countries including the U.S., created the ABTC program in 1997, and the U.S. started issuing cards to eligible Americans in 2014 after Congress passed the APEC Business Travel Cards Act in 2011. Under that law, the authority to issue these travel cards to Americans is set to expire on September 30, 2018 – meaning that no new cards can be issued after that date, and all cards will expire by 2021, after which Americans will no longer be able to travel throughout the region as easily as business travelers from other APEC countries. H.R. 2805, the APEC Business Travel Cards Reauthorization Act, would permanently extend that authority, while maintaining the Department of Homeland Security’s authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Nearly 30,000 U.S. citizens currently hold cards through the ABTC program, including more than 1,000 in Washington state. Full text of the legislation is available here. Background on the APEC Business Travel Card program: The ABTC program allows business travelers and government officials with business in APEC countries to access fast-track processing lanes at APEC airports, which saves an estimated 43 minutes per trip, according to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. The program runs entirely on user fees and costs nothing to taxpayers. Applicants must pay a $70 fee, must be U.S. citizens, and must pre-enroll in a U.S. trusted traveler program like Global Entry. Eligible applicants must be a “verified business person” engaged in APEC business – i.e., engaged in the trade of goods, provision of services, or conduct of investment activities in the APEC region – or a U.S. government official engaged in government activities in the APEC region. Rep. Rice’s legislation to permanently reauthorize the program would maintain the Department of Homeland Security’s authority to revoke or suspend an individual’s card for security reasons at any time. Other organizations supporting the effort to reauthorize the ABTC program include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Asia Pacific Council of American Chambers of Commerce, U.S. Council for International Business, National Foreign Trade Council, U.S. Travel Association, American Hotel and Lodging Association, Global Business Travel Association, U.S.-China Business Council, U.S.-ASEAN Business Council, National Center for APEC, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, American Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, Hawaii Tourism Authority, Chamber of Commerce Hawaii, and the Hawaii Lodging and Tourism Association. ###
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Legislation from Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) is gaining new momentum as a record 80 U.S. Representatives back the America Votes Act. The legislation aims to protect citizens who face disenfranchisement in more than 30 states because of voter identification laws. “This bill would protect democracy by helping eligible voters fight back against the voter ID laws that target them,” Larsen said. “Requiring an ID may not seem like a problem at first glance, but these laws disproportionately block Latinos, African Americans, elderly individuals, transgender people, and college students from voting. Congress needs to move forward with solutions to end this targeted disenfranchisement, and I am proud 79 of my colleagues have cosponsored this legislation.” “The wave of restrictive photo voter ID laws implemented after the Shelby decision has wrongfully denied thousands of Americans the right to vote, including, minority voters in my home state of Texas,” said Congressman Marc Veasey. “That is why it is so important that we work against these laws both in the courts and through legislation. As lawmakers, we should make it as easy as possible for voters to make their voices heard at the ballot box and offering the option to sign an affidavit meets that goal.” As of April 2017, two-thirds of states had passed laws requiring some kind of identification from people at the polls. Voter ID laws most heavily impact citizens who face barriers to obtaining identification such as college students who move frequently, low-income individuals who may not be able to afford an ID or the time off from work it takes to obtain one, or transgender people whose gender identity may differ from their birth certificate. In fact, a 2014 study from the non-partisan Government Accountability Office indicated marked decreases both in voter turnout and in the successful processing of ballots in states that have implemented voter identification restrictions. At the same time, numerous independent studies have shown that in-person voter fraud is extremely rare. The America Votes Act would create new protections for voters arriving at polls, allowing them affirm their identity by submitting a sworn, written statement – just like absentee voters – even if they do not have state-required identification required. Voters would then be allowed to submit a standard, not provisional, ballot. Larsen modeled the legislation after the voting system in Washington state where voters can affirm their identity by submitting a similar written statement. Cosponsors of the America Votes Act include Reps. Alma Adams (NC-12), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Robert A. Brady (PA-01), Julia Brownley (CA-26), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Lacy Clay (MO-01), James E. Clyburn (SC-06), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Charlie Crist (FL-13), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Theodore E. Deutch (FL-22), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), John Garamendi (CA-03), Gene Green (TX-29), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Denny Heck (WA-10), James A. Himes (CT-04), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18), Hakeem S. Jeffries (NY-08), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), William R. Keating (MA-09), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Ron Kind (WI-03), Al Lawson Jr. (FL-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), John Lewis (GA-05), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Jim P. McGovern (MA-02), Gregory Meeks (NY-05), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Grace A. Napolitano (CA-32), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-at large), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Donald M. Payne (NJ-10), Scott Peters (CA-52), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Cedric Richmond (LA-02), Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), David Scott (GA-13), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25), Adam Smith (WA-09), Darren Soto (FL-09), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Mark Takano (CA-41), Bennie Thompson (MS-02), Dina Titus (NV-01) Paul Tonko (NY-20), Norma J. Torres (CA-35), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Marc A. Veasey (CA-33), Peter Welch (VT-at large), and Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24). The bill has been endorsed by the NALEO Educational Fund, National Center for Transgender Equality and Transgender Law Center. ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, today helped lead a hearing on reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). During the hearing, Larsen was highly critical of President Trump’s plan to privatize America’s air traffic control (ATC) system and had tough questions for hearing witness, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao. Watch Larsen’s opening statement HERE. Watch Larsen’s Q&A with Secretary Chao HERE. Larsen and Chao’s exchange focused on the administration’s plan to transfer existing assets to a new, privatized entity free of charge and without remuneration to the government. Larsen pressed the Secretary, asking whether the national assets of the air traffic control system have zero value. Secretary Chao: “they are not worth zero of course. But that has to be worked out.” Larsen responded: “well if they are not worth zero [dollars] then it doesn’t seem that we should transfer [it] free of charge to the corporation….I don’t understand, perhaps you could get back to us, how the administration sees the fact that the U.S. taxpayer has put money into the system and then that should just be transferred to a not-for-profit or non-governmental corporation – that makes no sense at all.” Larsen has led Democratic opposition to the plan to privatize the Federal ATC system, and consistently raising concerns about the challenges and unanswered questions involved in proposed privatization plans. Yesterday, Larsen and Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-4) introduced the Aviation Funding Stability Act of 2017, legislation aimed at strengthening and speeding up Federal Aviation Administration reforms and modernization of the air traffic control system through NextGen initiatives. This bill would help ensure investments in the U.S. aviation system are not subject to Congressional inefficiencies and would streamline the acquisition of NextGen technology, equipment certification, and ATC management. Earlier this week, President Trump announced a plan that would privatize ATC, leave the FAA’s critical safety oversight processes without a funding source, and jeopardize aviation safety by subjecting the remaining FAA to Congressional shutdowns, budget cuts, and sequestration. Under the Trump plan, a private corporation would have the power to tax the flying public to pay for the ATC system without Congressional oversight or judicial review. The Trump plan severely limits current public participation requirements regarding aircraft noise when adjusting airspace routes over homes across the United States. ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, joined by Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Democrats on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, is rejecting President Trump’s plan to privatize America’s air traffic control system. Today, Larsen introduced H.R. 2800, the Aviation Funding Stability Act of 2017,which aims to strengthen and speed up the reforms taking place at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and its air traffic control (ATC) system through the NextGen initiative. “This bill meaningfully complements NextGen’s progress,” said Larsen. “By providing certainty to the FAA’s funding streams and boosting reforms to the FAA’s personnel and procurement systems this bill presents an opportunity to accelerate modernization of the FAA, which is something I think folks on both sides of the aisle can get behind.” “If we truly want to fix the real problems facing the FAA today, the solution is simple: Congress can and should pass targeted reforms. Today, Democrats on the Transportation Committee offered targeted measures that guarantee that investments in our aviation system are not subject to Congressional dysfunction. Our alternative provides a stable, predictable funding stream for aviation programs; directs the FAA to run modernization programs using streamlined best practices; requires FAA to reform its personnel system; gives users a bigger role in managing the aviation system through the FAA’s Management Advisory Council; and authorizes funding to rebuild and modernize aging air traffic control facilities. Targeted reforms can achieve our common objectives without jeopardizing our Nation’s outstanding aviation safety record. I urge my Republican colleagues to reject ATC privatization, and support our proposal for real, achievable modernization and reform,” said DeFazio. The Aviation Funding Stability Act of 2017 would help ensure investments in the U.S. aviation system are not subject to Congressional dysfunction and would streamline the acquisition of NextGen technology, equipment certification, and ATC management. Key provisions include Provide the FAA with mandatory spending authority in order to maintain stable, predictable FAA funding. Ensure that revenues collected from flying passengers (i.e. ticket taxes) are invested in the aviation system. Beginning October 1, Trust Fund revenues and uncommitted cash balance are immediately available to be invested in the aviation system. These funds are not subject to appropriation, budget sequestration, or any directive of the Office of Management and Budget – the funds are off budget. In addition, the bill authorizes such sums as necessary from the General Fund for FAA Operations to address any possible shortfall in Trust Fund revenues, and it exempts any General Fund share from sequestration. Require top-to-bottom reforms of the FAA’s personnel and procurement systems. In 1995 and 1996, Congress exempted the FAA from government-wide personnel and procurement rules. But the Department of Transportation Inspector General has often reported that the FAA has not taken full advantage of these reforms, leading to delays and cost overruns in modernization programs and low workforce productivity. The bill requires the FAA to develop a streamlined procurement system that is up to the task of governing high-tech, high-value acquisitions in NextGen technology. It also requires the FAA to update its personnel management system to provide incentives for good performance, among other things. With these reforms, the FAA will be able to institute personnel and procurement reform. Elevate the role of the FAA Management Advisory Council (MAC), a government-industry panel that advises the FAA Administrator on strategic issues facing the FAA. The bill requires the Administrator to respond in writing to each recommendation of the MAC with respect to management of the air traffic control system within 90 days of receipt. If the Administrator disagrees with the recommendation, the Administrator must explain his or her rationale. If the Administrator agrees with the recommendation, the Administrator’s response must include a timeline for implementation. Removes bureaucratic barriers within the FAA. The bill directs the agency to cross-utilize staff across disciplines wherever feasible and to break down internal silos so employees can freely share ideas, and so that offices can better collaborate and coordinate with one another in managing complex tasks like certifying new airliner designs and running the air traffic control system. Authorize funds to rebuild and modernize aging air traffic control facilities across the United States. The bill authorizes the FAA to use the uncommitted balance of the Airport and Airway Trust Fund to rebuild, modernize, and sustain air traffic control facilities. Earlier this week, President Trump announced a plan that would privatize ATC, leave the FAA’s critical safety oversight processes without a funding source, and jeopardize aviation safety by subjecting the remaining FAA to Congressional shutdowns, budget cuts, and sequestration. Under the Trump plan, a private corporation would have the power to tax the flying public to pay for the ATC system without Congressional oversight or judicial review. The Trump plan severely limits current public participation requirements regarding aircraft noise when adjusting airspace routes over homes across the United States. ###
06.05.2017	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today released the following statement after President Trump announced plans to privatize the U.S. air traffic control system. “The President’s rationale for privatizing the world’s safest and most complex air traffic control system simply does not pass the smell test,” said Larsen, who has led Democratic opposition to privatization efforts, “and it will not achieve the meaningful modernization needed to ensure our aviation system remains the safest and most efficient in the world. Today, there are flights landing more efficiently at Sea-Tac and at airports around the country thanks to the Federal Aviation Administration’s NextGen program. This progress – which has already delivered $2.7 billion in benefits to airlines and operators of general aviation aircraft – is forecasted to grow to $13 billion by 2020 and $160 billion by 2030. Privatization jeopardizes these efforts, as well as any hope for a bipartisan, comprehensive Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill that moves the needle on the many aviation issues upon which Democrats and Republicans agree.” Larsen has consistently raised concerns about the challenges and unanswered questions involved in proposed privatization plans. In May, Larsen pointed out glaring inconsistencies in a Republican proposal to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system. And a November 2016 Government Accountability Office report found that aviation experts are deeply divided and unable to answer serious questions about the impacts to national security and the financial stability of the ATC system if it were privatized. In the report, the GAO’s panel of aviation experts could not guarantee that a private corporation would speed up technological advancements under NextGen implementation, or that a private ATC system could collaborate successfully with the military to ensure the security of the national airspace. The report also confirmed that a privatized air traffic control system would be heavily and negatively impacted by an economic downturn and/or a decrease in air travel. ###
06.05.2017	PARIS, FRANCE–U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Brian Bonlender, Director of the Washington state Department of Commerce, will lead Washington state’s largest-ever delegation to the International Paris Air Show – the world’s premiere aircraft exposition event. As in 2013, Larsen will take a leave of absence for one week while attending the Air Show. Larsen, who is taking the place of Washington Governor Jay Inslee at the Governor’s request, is uniquely positioned to lead the delegation given his role as the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. The Paris Air Show gives Washington aerospace companies the opportunity to showcase products and services to customers from around the globe. And according to the Washington State Department of Commerce, companies that joined the 2015 Commerce Paris Air Show delegation generated more than $125 million as result of their participation. “The aerospace industry is an economic engine in the Pacific Northwest, and the aircraft produced by Washington workers are the envy of world. I forward to bringing that message to Paris, assisting my home state, helping showcase all that Washington has to offer to the global aerospace community,” said Larsen. “As Washington state enters its second century of developing and building world-class aircraft, unmanned systems and space exploration vehicles, I know the future holds great promise for our aerospace industry,” Gov. Jay Inslee said. “More than 1,000 aerospace companies in this state have redefined the industry with strong, skilled workforce who are passionate about the work they do and proud of the products and services they produce. I am proud that Congressman Larsen is leading this year’s delegation, as his knowledge, experience and passion for this industry serve our state well.” “After building more than a century of leadership in this industry, Washington state’s entrepreneurial culture continues shaping the future of flight and space exploration,” said Commerce Director Bonlender. “A strong aerospace industry strengthens communities by creating the next generation of experts who will envision and hold the jobs of the future.” Sixty-three participants representing aerospace clusters all over Washington state will be featured in the “Choose Washington” exhibit, including: AIT/Nova-Tech Engineering – Lynnwood, WA Orion Industries – Mukilteo, WA Seacast – Marysville, WA Industrial Machine Tool – Anacortes, WA Pioneer Industries – Seattle, WA AIM Aerospace – Renton, WA Renton Coil Spring – Renton, WA Tool Gauge – Tacoma, WA National Precision Bearing – Preston, WA Silicon Forest Electronics – Vancouver, WA Sagetech – White Salmon, WA Washington state is home to a global aerospace industry that employs more than 136,000 people, produces about nine of every 10 commercial aircraft made in North America, and adds more than $70 billion in revenue annually to the state economy. Larsen will help lead the Washington state delegation to the Paris Air Show from Saturday, June 17th – Friday, June 23rd, 2017 As in 2013, Larsen will announce how he would have voted in the House each day. ###
06.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with other Pacific Northwest Members of Congress, today voiced his opposition to a proposal in the President’s budget to sell off the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) assets. In a letter to Secretary of Energy Rick Perry and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney, fifteen Members of Congress – U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Greg Walden (R-OR) – express their concern over the proposal to privatize BPA and highlight BPA’s unique role in providing affordable, clean energy to the Pacific Northwest communities. The text of the letter follows, and a PDF of the original letter is available here: Dear Secretary Perry and Director Mulvaney: We write to you to express our concern with a provision in the President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Budget Request that proposes to sell off transmission assets for federal Power Marketing Agencies, including for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA). We believe divesting BPA’s transmission assets will harm individuals and businesses, divert capital needed for further infrastructure investment in the Northwest, and undermine regional utility coordination. For these reasons, we are united in opposing implementation of these elements of the FY18 Budget. BPA has a fundamental role in our region that dates back decades. Established by Congress in 1937 as a nonprofit federal power marketing administration, BPA was tasked with helping to manage and sell power generated by the newly constructed Bonneville Dam on the Columbia River. Eighty years later, BPA has helped to develop and administer the complex electrical system that powers the Northwest, now providing affordable and reliable power to over 12 million people and the businesses that help the region thrive. Importantly, BPA is self-funding, and is of no cost to the taxpayer. The entire BPA transmission system—both the capital investment and operation and maintenance—is fully paid by the users of the system. In fact, it has benefitted U.S. taxpayers by providing more than $32.5 billion in payments to the U.S Treasury. Divesting these assets to the highest bidder could transfer the benefit and equity of these investments from the Northwest consumers, who have financed the system, to distant investors. Furthermore, this proposal will lead to a certain rate increase for consumers, imposing increased costs on families and economic development, potentially jeopardizing the ability of the BPA to repay the costs of the Federal Columbia River Power System. We are also concerned that the divestiture would put rural communities in the Pacific Northwest at increased risk. Currently, BPA coordinates in transmission and power marketing functions to maximize efficiency. Severing that relationship will undermine this goal. Moreover, privatization could lead to the division of the regional grid, with high-value assets sold off for a premium and lines that serve rural areas and grid reliability abandoned. Private companies are unlikely to give these communities the proper maintenance and attention they need to maintain complex transmission assets. Contrary to the FY18 Budget’s rationale, BPA owns 75% of the transmission in the Pacific Northwest. All Northwest utilities and the customers they serve depend on BPA’s grid to access affordable and reliable power. Selling off BPA’s transmission assets is bad public policy that undermines the President’s economic objectives and betrays a lack of understanding of the Northwest. We oppose this proposal, and instead urge you to work with us to support the continued health of BPA, which has been central to the economic vitality of the Northwest. ###
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after President Trump announced America will exit the Paris climate accord – an agreement between 195 countries to slow the effects of global climate change. “Withdrawing the United States from the Paris climate accord is a grave mistake,” Larsen said. “Scientists, private sector companies, and leaders from nearly every country on the globe agree: the changing climate threatens life on Earth. The President has a responsibility to do everything he can at home and on the global stage to protect the American people from that threat. Today, he abdicated that responsibility.” In 2014, Larsen authored an op-ed in the Bellingham Herald in which he spoke to the importance of U.S. and Chinese involvement in mitigating climate change, and said the “the only real way to make meaningful progress toward mitigating the effects of climate change is for countries to work together.” ###
05.31.2017	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that his office is inviting young people in Washington’s Second Congressional District to apply for a Congressional nomination to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The application deadline is November 3, 2017. “Students who go on to U.S. Service Academies represent the best and brightest of Washington state,” said Larsen, a senior member of House Armed Services Committee. “It is my great honor to be a part of the nomination process each year, and I look forward to supporting this next class of hardworking applicants pursue careers of service to the United States.” To qualify for a Congressional nomination from Larsen’s office, candidates must be a resident of Washington’s Second Congressional District and a U.S. citizen; at least 17 years old and not past his or her 23rd birthday by July 1 of the year of admission; unmarried with no children or dependents; and able to meet high leadership, academic, physical and medical standards. Larsen had the honor of nominating nine Washingtonians from the Second Congressional District who accepted appointments for the class of 2021. For more information, please call Larsen’s Everett office at 425-252-3188, or visit: https://larsen.house.gov/helping-you/military-academy-nominations. ###
05.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, condemned this morning’s bombing in Kabul’s Zanbaq Square, where at least 90 people were killed and hundreds were injured: “This attack, targeting innocent civilians, is an affront to humanity. The people of Afghanistan are in my thoughts as they rebuild together. The United States will remain a steadfast friend to people confronting terrorism worldwide.” ###
05.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today congratulated Western Washington University’s women’s rowing team for winning its eighth NCAA Division II national championship: “Congratulations to Western Washington University’s women’s rowing team and to Vikings everywhere on an extraordinary eighth NCAA Division II national championship.” ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its score detailing the projected impacts of the second version of Trumpcare, which passed the House on May 4, 2017, by a vote of 217-213. Today’s score found that under Trumpcare, 23 million fewer Americans would have health insurance over the next decade and critical federal healthcare funding to states would be cut by $834 billion. “If there were a book on commonsense for Congress, I am sure it would include a chapter on holding public hearings before voting on legislation,” said Larsen. “And Trumpcare would be a perfect case study: Congressional Republicans found out today, 20 days after ramming Trumpcare through the House, that they have a real turkey of a bill on their hands.” Congressional Republicans forced a vote in May before the Congressional Budget Office could evaluate the effects of changes to the updated legislation, which would allow states to waive the essential health benefits requirement and increase rates for people with preexisting conditions, which can be anything from being a woman to having a terminal illness. Key provisions of Trumpcare include gutting the Medicaid program, repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, decimating funding for Planned Parenthood, and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. This legislation also reduces health care quality by allowing states to choose whether or not to keep the essential health benefits requirement, which would allow insurance companies to stop providing necessary services like maternity care and treatment for opioid abuse. In Washington state, the uninsured rate dropped from 14 to 5.8 percent thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and across the country the bill helped cut the personal bankruptcy filings in half. Since January, Larsen has held eight Affordable Care Act “Town Talks” in towns and cities across Northwest Washington – hearing from more than 1000 constituents in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley, and Friday Harbor. ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today issued the following statement after President Trump released his full FY 2018 budget proposal: “When it comes to Medicaid, education programs, the environment, nutrition assistance, and Social Security Disability – frankly, almost anything not attached to the military, boosting the bottom line for billionaires, or building a wall along the southern border – this budget is a nightmare,” said Larsen, who is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “While I support investing in the military, America is not the austere, zero-sum society depicted by this administration. America can take care of the elderly, protect the environment, invest in infrastructure, educate our children for the jobs of the future, feed the poor and invest in diplomacy while also ensuring our women and men in uniform have the resources needed to succeed. I urge my colleagues to stand up for the American people and reject this proposal.” ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C.—In a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, took aim at glaring inconsistencies in a Republican proposal to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system and called for focus on bipartisan agreement in the upcoming Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. “Inspector we heard in some comments today that the air traffic control system is safe, but it is broken… I fly 2,306 miles and back again for my commute. Can the system be safe and broken? Or should I drive? It seems to me that there is a fundamental argument here that we have to go to privatization because the system is broken that controls the air space, and if it is broken I don’t know how it can be safe,” said Larsen. WATCH: “Inspector we heard in some comments today that the air traffic control system is safe, but it is broken… I fly 2,306 miles and back again for my commute. Can the system be safe and broken? Or should I drive?” Calvin Scovel, III, Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Transportation acknowledged the contradiction in the argument put forth by privatization-backers: “I would characterize the system certainly as safe…and I would take issue with the ‘broken’ characterization.” In an exchange with Joseph W. Brown, President of Hartzell Propeller, Larsen continued: “the main point is we are not working on a privatization bill, we are working on a FAA reauthorization bill which has many moving parts – many of which Democrats and Republicans agree upon – but they are being held up by this one debate.” Larsen has led Democratic opposition to the plan to privatize the Federal ATC system, and Larsen has consistently raised concerns about the challenges and unanswered questions involved in proposed privatization plans. A November 2016 Government Accountability Office report found that aviation experts are deeply divided and unable to answer serious questions about the impacts to national security and the financial stability of the ATC system if it were privatized. Key findings of the report include that the GAO’s panel of aviation experts could not confirm that a private ATC system would be capable of protecting national security and collaborating with the military to ensure the safety of our National Airspace System. Nor could they guarantee that a private corporation would speed up technological advances and NextGen implementation. The experts confirmed that a privatized air traffic control system would be heavily and negatively impacted by an economic downturn and a decrease in air travel. ###
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following the abrupt firing of FBI Director James Comey, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, is reiterating his call for an independent commission to investigate ties between the Russian government and President Trump. “A bipartisan, independent commission is needed more today than when I first called for it in February,” said Larsen. “President Trump’s stunning decision to terminate FBI Director James Comey – who was in charge of investigating possible contact and collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government – has dispelled any shred of doubt about the urgent need for an independent commission.” Larsen has cosponsored the bipartisan Protecting Our Democracy Act which would create an independent commission to investigate the full extent of Russian actions to influence the 2016 US elections. Additionally, Larsen has cosponsored H.Res.111, a Resolution of Inquiry directing the Department of Justice to provide the House of Representatives with all information related to President Trump and his associates’ financial conflicts of interest, ethics violations, and violations of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits elected officials from receiving payments from foreign governments. Following the resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn earlier this year, Larsen said “the American people need to know more information about what President Trump knew and when he knew it.” In February, Larsen sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey, in which he wrote: “Flynn’s resignation…raises important questions about the extent of collaboration between the Trump campaign and the Russian government…To give peace of mind to the American people, I request that the investigation be prompt and thorough in resolving whether Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak were known to or authorized by persons in the Trump campaign. In addition, I ask you to include in the investigation a full assessment of the scope of contact between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting against Trumpcare, the GOP health care bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, which passed the House on a 217-213 vote. “Today, Congressional Republicans and President Trump forced a vote on Trumpcare 2.0, legislation that is even more heartless than the first version,” said Larsen. “If Trumpcare 2.0 becomes law, 24 million Americans will lose health coverage, necessary benefits like maternity care will become optional, and protections for individuals living with pre-existing conditions will be scrapped. This is a plan to destroy America’s healthcare, not fix it.” Congressional Republicans forced today’s vote before the Congressional Budget Office could evaluate the effects of last-minute changes to the legislation, which would allow states to waive the essential health benefits requirement and remove protections for people with preexisting conditions, which can be anything from diabetes to cancer. These changes could also allow employers to impose lifetime limits and eliminate the out-of-pocket cost cap for the 159 million Americans who are insured through their job. In March, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released a score detailing projected impacts of an earlier version of Trumpcare. The score found that under Trumpcare, 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance over the next decade, average health care premiums would rise by 15-20 percent over the next two years and critical federal healthcare funding to states would be cut by $880 billion. In addition, reports from the Joint Committee on Taxation show that Trumpcare will also cut billions in taxes – primarily for millionaires and billionaires. Key provisions of Trumpcare include gutting the Medicaid program, repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, decimating funding for Planned Parenthood, and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. This legislation also reduces health care quality by allowing states to choose whether or not to keep the essential health benefits requirement, which would allow insurance companies to stop providing necessary services like maternity care and treatment for opioid abuse. In Washington state, the uninsured rate dropped from 14 to 5.8 percent thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and across the country the bill helped cut the personal bankruptcy filings in half. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting in favor of a bipartisan congressional spending bill, which passed the House on a 309-118 vote. “The good news is this is not the slash and burn approach proposed by President Trump,” said Larsen. “Cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and the HUD-VASH program are disappointing, but there are several reasons to support this budget package. This bill includes resources for measures I championed such as opioid programs, small business programs, Impact Aid, National Institutes of Health, Pacific Coastal Salmon Program, hunger relief programs, and apprenticeship programs. Further, the bill includes critical transportation funding for Sound Transit’s Lynnwood Link extension and Community Transit’s small starts grant for the Swift II Bus Rapid Transit which will boost the Pacific Northwest economy and create jobs.” While today’s spending package decreases Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) funding by $81.4 million, it fully funds the EPA’s Puget Sound Geographic Program which Larsen fought to preserve. The bill also makes progress on initiatives Larsen has long-championed, including $6.057 million for the Northwest Fisheries Science Center in Mukilteo, full funding for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, $35 million for Department of Defense Supplemental Impact Aid, $150 million toward the future procurement of a new icebreaker, an additional $150 million for programs that address the prevention and treatment of opioid abuse, $95 million for apprenticeship grants, $100 million for Sound Transit’s Lynnwood Link extension and $43.2 million for Community Transit’s small starts grant for the Swift II Bus Rapid Transit line. ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today helped lead a hearing examining customer service problems associated with US airlines. Today’s hearing follows the forcible removal of a passenger from United Airlines Flight 3411, an incident which became a flashpoint in the relationship between US airlines and the flying public. “Mr. Munoz, I want to make clear to you and all of the other airlines, including those who are not here, what happened on United Express 3411 cannot happen again,” said Larsen. “We’re here to discuss what went wrong and how such a scenario can be prevented from happening again. The incident that took place on April 9 was a result of United Airlines’ policy failures – failures your company took steps to recognize last week. But in truth these problems are not specific to United. Several of the airlines represented here today have recognized room for improvements in their own bookings, overbooking, and other policies. and have announced changes in the recent weeks. I’m hopeful these changes result in an enhanced focus on the paying customer going forward and better training and empowerment of front line employees who must apply the changes in their interactions with passengers.” WATCH: "what happened on United Express 3411 cannot happen again." Larsen went on to highlight efforts he is leading with Ranking Member DeFazio to enhance consumer protections: “this morning, Ranking Member DeFazio and I request that the GAO dive deeper into consumer protections for airline passengers. Understanding current protections and then identifying any gaps will be critical as we develop meaningful improvements in consumer protections for the flying public. Earlier this year Ranking Member DeFazio and I introduced legislation to address two surefire ways that ruin someone’s flight: unexpected fees and lengthy delays. The Know Before You Fly Act would ensure that airlines remain transparent when it comes to baggage fees and would require airlines to inform passengers at the time of ticket purchase what they will and will not do for passengers in the event of a widespread computer network failure.” A copy of today’s letter is available HERE. Last month, Larsen and DeFazio requested that the U.S. Department of Transportation share any findings from the agency’s review of the April 9th incident on United Airlines Flight 3411. In March, Larsen and DeFazio introduced the Know Before You Fly Act, legislation that would direct airlines to be more transparent about what services will be provided to air travelers during mass flight delays and cancellations resulting from computer network failures, as well as require airlines to inform passengers about any baggage and ancillary fees at the front end of the transaction. In July of 2016, a provision Larsen championed that requires the U.S. Department of Transportation to update long-delayed standards for airplane lavatory access among passengers with disabilities was included in the bipartisan agreement to extend the Federal Aviation Administration through September 30, 2017. ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after reports that former Washington state Governor Mike Lowry has passed away: “Over the course of decades of public service, Governor Lowry worked hard on behalf of Washington state – including as our state’s Governor. In and out of office Mike advanced issues important to Washingtonians such as affordable housing, healthcare, and redress for Japanese Americans who were wrongfully interned during WWII. My thoughts are with his family.” ###
04.27.2017	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, along with Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) and Republican Reps. Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Drew Ferguson (GA-03), have introduced bipartisan legislation that would preclude the Department of Transportation (DOT) from issuing a foreign air carrier permit for US operations to an airline that exploits “flags of convenience” to avoid regulations in its home country. On December 2, 2016, DOT issued a foreign air carrier permit to Norwegian Air International (NAI), an airline that established itself in Ireland in order to avoid Norway’s strong labor protections. “The Department of Transportation’s decision to grant Norwegian Air International a foreign air carrier permit was in direct contravention of the US–EU Open Skies Agreement which ensures airlines doing business in the US have strong labor standards,” said Larsen. “This bill would prevent DOT from issuing foreign carrier permits when airlines try to side step regulations and labor laws by setting up flags of convenience schemes.” “When the Department of Transportation granted Norwegian Air International’s permit, it guaranteed a race to the bottom in our transatlantic aviation market. Now, any airline can set up under a flag of convenience to exploit weak labor laws in other countries, save money, and undercut competition. Our bipartisan bill protects American jobs from predatory and unfair competition, and it protects the American flying public from deceptive flags of convenience,” said DeFazio. DOT’s controversial decision to grant NAI a permit will encourage future opportunistic airlines to continue this race to the bottom in international civil aviation, threatening U.S. carriers’ ability to compete in critical international markets. H.R. 2150, the Flags of Convenience Don’t Fly Here Act, would prohibit DOT from issuing a permit to a foreign airline to serve the United States unless DOT determines that the foreign air carrier is not exploiting a “flag of convenience” by establishing itself in a country other than the country of its majority owner to avoid regulations. The bill would also require DOT to ensure any new foreign air carrier permits issued to European airlines are consistent with the fair labor standards and fair competition requirements of the US-EU-Norway-Iceland Air Transport Agreement. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with Reps. Don Young (R-AK), Duncan Hunter (CA-52) and John Garamendi (CA-03) and have introduced bipartisan legislation to authorize procurement of up to six new icebreakers. H.R. 1816, the Icebreaker Act, would authorize the U.S. Navy to partner with the U.S. Coast Guard to procure three medium-class and three heavy-class icebreakers – an increase which is critical to advancing America’s national security and other interests in the Arctic. “Earth’s climate is changing, and nowhere is it changing faster than the Arctic. Travel through the Arctic will increase, as will the opportunity to advance US scientific, military, and economic interests in the region. I am introducing this bill because unless the US addresses its current shortfall in icebreakers – as this bill aims to do – these opportunities will slip away,” said Rep. Larsen (WA-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional Arctic Working Group and a senior member House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Coast Guard Subcommittee. Currently, the United States has only one active heavy icebreaker; the Polar Star, which requires significant federal investment to extend its service life to 2023. According to a June 2016 U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, current projections show a looming three to six year gap in U.S. heavy icebreaking abilities at the conclusion of the Polar Star’s service life. The Coast Guard’s pending icebreaker operations gap has received significant attention since the GAO report was released, including in a July 12, 2016 hearing by the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. The Icebreaker Act works to resolve the many challenges associated with acquiring new Coast Guard icebreakers by specifically authorizing the Navy to work with the Coast Guard to procure up to three medium-class and three heavy-class icebreakers. The legislation works to address the significant challenges of procuring new Coast Guard icebreakers by utilizing the Navy’s experience in ship building and its significant annual shipbuilding budget of roughly $20 Billion. As estimates place the cost of one single heavy-class icebreaker to be in the vicinity of $1 billion, many believe it is impractical for the Coast Guard (whose annual procurement and acquisition budget is ~$1.25 billion) to procure an ice breaker itself. Further, the legislation capitalizes on the Navy’s previous leadership in procuring all currently operational icebreakers. In 2014, Larsen and Young launched the bipartisan Congressional Arctic Working Group. Larsen and Young are two of the House’s leading voices focused on helping raise awareness about Arctic issues – including the need for the U.S. to strengthen its fleet of polar icebreakers. In recent years, Larsen and Young have called for a number of Government Accountability Office studies regarding the Arctic (found here and here). For text of the resolution click HERE. ###
04.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Upon returning from the Korean peninsula as a part of a bipartisan Congressional delegation, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement: "I assess Kim Jong-Un would like nothing better than to cause a rift between the US and the Republic of Korea. The US and South Korea must show the strength of our defense treaty alliance by demonstrating a united front and refraining from unilateral action," said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. "While Vice President Pence is visiting the region, I encourage him to convey the continued commitment of the US to the Republic of Korea and to consult closely with the South Korean government about the possibility of further North Korean aggression and any possible response." While in the Republic of Korea, Larsen met with the Foreign Minister and Members of National Assembly, top US military leaders and visited the Korean Demilitarized Zone for the third time. Additionally, Larsen received briefings about Korean peninsula security issues from international scholars and former US officials with experience throughout the region. Larsen's trip is timely given escalating tensions between the United States and North Korea, and Vice President Pence's current trip to the region. On Sunday, North Korea launched a ballistic missile that failed shortly after liftoff. This was the third North Korean missile launch of the year. While in East Asia, Larsen also visited Japan, where he met with Prime Minister Abe and underscored the importance of the US-Japan relationship. ###
04.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, and Peter DeFazio (OR-04), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today sent a letter to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, Elaine Chao, requesting any findings from the agency’s review of the April 9th incident that occurred on United Airlines Flight 3411. “If news reports are accurate, the treatment of this passenger by United Airlines is not only outrageous, but is unacceptable… We understand the Department of Transportation (DOT) is looking into the incident, and would like to know what DOT finds, including whether Federal law or regulations were violated during the April 9 incident aboard Flight 3411, as well as whether United Airlines’ contract of carriage or overbooking policy meets all applicable Federal standards,” wrote DeFazio and Larsen. The letter was also sent to Oscar Munoz, Chief Executive Officer of United Airlines. A copy of the letter is available HERE. ###
04.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Burlington-Edison high school senior Alexandria Kissas, the winner the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) met last week. Kissas was in D.C. to demonstrate her winning application at a reception with other winning students from across the U.S. “It was great to meet Alexandria and her family and see her app in action. Alexandria’s app, ‘ListMe,’ shows just how talented this next generation of students is and the opportunities that can open up by pursuing a STEM education.” Click HERE for a photo of last week’s meeting. Alexandria, who is currently a TA for her AP Computer Science teacher and hopes to attend Pomona College, received a prize of $400 in Amazon Web Services credits. Kissas’ app, “ListMe,” is designed to help people organize multiple lists on their smart phones. According to the Boston Consulting Group, there are as many as 25,000 unfilled science, technology, engineering and mathematics jobs in Washington state. The Congressional App Challenge is an annual competition that aims to help maintain American competitiveness by proactively inspiring youth to pursue crucial STEM skills. In 2016, a total of 193 members of Congress participated in the app challenge, with 43 states represented. The 2017 Congressional App Challenge will begin on July 26, 2017. ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The roles of the President’s top military and intelligence advisors are restored on the influential Principals Committee of the National Security Council, as called for in legislation introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02). Additionally, Steve Bannon has been removed from the Council. “President Trump received my message: when it comes to America’s most important national security decisions, there is no substitute for the professional advice provided by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence on the National Security Council,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. In February, Trump moved to radically reorganize the National Security Council by removing the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence from the Principals Committee. In their place, President Trump added White House chief strategist Steve Bannon – a move that threatened to undermine the bipartisan principle of striving to avoid political influence on the National Security Council. After describing the changes as a “holy crap” moment, Larsen introduced H.R. 793, the Ensuring Sound Military and Intelligence Advice Act of 2017, legislation aimed at countering President Trump’s politicization of the National Security Council. Today’s announcement closely follows Larsen’s bill, which would have amended the National Security Act of 1947 to ensure “if any individual whose responsibilities are primarily political is designated as a regular attendee of meetings of the National Security Council or of any body of the National Security Council, including the Principals Committee, then the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall also be designated as regular attendees of such Council or body.” ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, today helped lead a hearing which explored Congress’ role in supporting innovation and the integration of new technology in the national airspace. Today’s hearing was the fourth in a series of hearings focused on reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The agency’s authority expires in September 2017. “A few weeks ago, the FAA released its latest Aerospace Forecast, projecting that the hobbyist drone fleet will triple in size from 1.1 million to 3.5 million units in the next 5 years. Meanwhile, the commercial drone fleet is likely to multiply tenfold,” said Larsen. “I am pleased that last year’s short-term FAA extension included a number of provisions on drone safety. Still, more must be done to match the pace of industry growth, and this panel has an enormous opportunity to move the ball down the field with the upcoming FAA reauthorization.” Larsen continued: “additionally, ‘space tourism’ is on the horizon and is expected to become a billion-dollar market in the coming years. For American national security among other reasons, it is critical that US leadership in space transportation and exploration remain second to none. If the pace of commercial space transportation and tourism increases as forecasted, the FAA will need adequate resources to oversee safe integration of these new technologies into the national airspace. WATCH: “more must be done to match the pace of growth [in the drone industry], and this panel has an enormous opportunity to move the ball down the field with the upcoming FAA reauthorization” Larsen heard from Sean Cassidy, the Director of Safety and Regulatory Affairs at Amazon Prime Air, who spoke to the importance of establishing clear regulations for commercial drones – an issue for which Larsen has been a strong advocate. In 2015, Larsen praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision to create a registration process for unmanned aircraft systems and in 2016 Larsen said the FAA’s final rule regarding the use of small drones was “an important first step in establishing rules of the road.” Recently, FAA reauthorization hearings led by Larsen focused on the progress being made to modernize the national airspace as part of the FAA’s NextGen program, ways to alleviate congestion and improve user experience at Sea-Tac and reform aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs by saving time, making products safer and transporting them to market more quickly. Last month, Larsen and Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) unveiled legislation aimed at boosting consumer protections by directing more transparency from airlines in terms of what services will be provided to air travelers during mass flight delays and cancellations resulting from computer network failures, as well as require airlines to inform passengers about any baggage and ancillary fees at the front end of the transaction. Larsen has consistently advocated for a long-term, comprehensive FAA reauthorization. ###
03.31.2017	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is inviting high school-aged students in the Second Congressional District to showcase their artistic talents in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The U.S. House of Representatives holds the nationwide high school visual art competition to encourage and recognize artistic talent in each congressional district. The winning entry will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, and the winning artist will receive two free plane tickets to Washington, D.C. “I am encouraging the many gifted young artists to submit their artwork,” said Larsen. “Last year there were more than 30 entries and I am excited to see this year’s submissions and highlight the talent that Washington’s Second Congressional District has to offer.” Since 1982, hundreds of thousands of students have participated in the Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to all high school students (grades 9-12). Interested students can find details on Larsen’s website or by calling Larsen’s Everett office at 425-252-3188. Entry forms must be signed by the student, a parent or guardian and a school faculty member. Forms and art submissions are due by Friday, April 28 at 4 p.m. They can be mailed or delivered to Larsen’s offices in Everett or Bellingham: Rep. Rick Larsen Re: Art Competition Wall Street Building 2930 Wetmore Avenue, Suite 9F Everett, WA 98201 Rep. Rick Larsen Re: Art Competition 119 North Commercial Street, Suite 275 Bellingham, WA 98225 If students need assistance in getting their artwork to one of Larsen’s offices or the drop off locations, they can call the Everett office at 425-252-3188. Participants will be honored and the winner will be announced at a reception on May 6, 2017. Students can check whether they are Second District residents here. All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. For more information on the annual Congressional Art Competition, call 425-252-3188. ###
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced his appointment by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi to the Canada-United States Inter-Parliamentary Group – an organization which aims to promote dialogue between U.S. Congress and Canada’s Parliament. Last week, Larsen met with members of the Canadian Parliament to discuss U.S.-Canada economic ties. According to the U.S. Department of State, each day nearly 400,000 people cross the U.S.-Canada border and more than $1.8 billion in goods and services are traded between the two countries. In 2016, Washington state exported $6.9 billion worth of goods to Canada. “Canada is one of America’s closest allies and one of NATO’s strongest partners, making the Canada-United States Inter-Parliamentary Group an important tool for strengthening those critical relationships,” said Larsen. “I look forward to serving with my American and Canadian colleagues to tackle challenges and seize opportunities important to citizens on both sides of our shared border.” Larsen has a strong track record of working with Canada. During Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to the U.S. last year, Larsen advocated for a variety of issues critical to the Pacific Northwest, including pushing to end a British Columbia water treatment facility’s dumping of raw sewage into the Strait of Juan de Fuca. Since 1949, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) has protected the freedom and security of its members, a coalition of 28 independent countries. Last year, Larsen reaffirmed the U.S.’ commitment to NATO after President Trump questioned America’s commitment to defending NATO allies. The U.S. and Canada also both sit on the Arctic Council, an intergovernmental body that promotes collaboration among Arctic nations. As co-chair of the House Arctic Working Group, Larsen has been one of the House’s leading voices on Arctic issues and advocating for the U.S. to strengthen its fleet of polar icebreakers. In recent years, Larsen has called for a number of Government Accountability Office studies regarding the Arctic, including a report which revealed the U.S. is significantly under-resourced in terms of policies and strategies related to the Arctic. ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement on S.J. Res 34, a bill that would overturn a Federal Communications Commission rule requiring internet service providers to receive an “opt-in” before they share or sell customers’ personal data online and let customers know what data is being collected, how that data might be used and how to change privacy settings. “A lot of folks have written and called in over the last couple days asking me to oppose S.J. Res 34, which will undermine your privacy protections on the internet and let internet service providers sell your data. I am putting this video up to let you know I will be voting against that resolution. Let’s keep in mind this is just one more effort in rolling back regulations that this administration has undertaken. They are rolling back workplace safety regulations, clean water and clean air regulations and with S.J. Res. 34 they are rolling back privacy protections. We need to continue fighting hard to ensure consumers are protected, our environment is protected, and the workplace is protected. My, ‘no’ vote is an effort to keep that fight up and I hope you will all keep that fight up as well. Thank you.” ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after Trumpcare, the GOP health care bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, failed to achieve enough support and was pulled from the floor. “We are here today because of you: so many people called and wrote into my office, saying ‘vote no’ on Trumpcare,” said Larsen. “This is a great battle won, but the war is not over. Just like how Dracula always comes back, Trumpcare is not dead forever. President Trump and Congressional Republicans are going to continue to try and undermine your healthcare, and we need to continue to fight back. So let’s stay focused, let’s stay vigilant so that the Affordable Care Act continues to work.” Last week, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its much-anticipated score detailing projected impacts of Trumpcare. The score found that under Trumpcare, 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance over the next decade, average health care premiums would rise by 15-20 percent over the next two years and critical federal healthcare funding to states would be cut by $880 billion. Yesterday, the agency evaluated last-minute changes to the legislation, and found the amended version of Trumpcare would still leave 24 million without health insurance while costing taxpayers an additional $186 billion. In addition, reports from the Joint Committee on Taxation show that Trumpcare will also cut billions in taxes – primarily for millionaires and billionaires. Key provisions of Trumpcare include repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, phasing out critical federal health care resources for states and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. This legislation also reduces health care quality by repealing the Affordable Care Act’s federal essential health benefits requirement, which would allow insurance companies to stop providing necessary services like maternity care and treatment for opioid abuse. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) reintroduced bills in the House and Senate to permanently allow the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to offer reproductive services to veterans with service-connected injuries, repealing a decades-old ban. The Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2017 would also expand the fertility options available to servicemembers through the Department of Defense (DoD), give access to fertility treatment for spouses, allow VA to provide adoption assistance, and make VA’s highly successful child care pilot program permanent. During the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, thousands of servicemembers suffered genitourinary, blast, spinal and brain injuries that left them unable to conceive naturally, but VA was unable to cover the costs of certain fertility services because of a ban Congress passed in 1992. Murray and Larsen have for years led the fight to overturn the ban on IVF services, and last year Senator Murray secured a provision in the MilCon-VA Appropriations bill that gives VA the authority to provide assisted reproductive technology, of which IVF is the most common, through fiscal year 2018 but a permanent repeal of the ban is still needed. “The Department of Veterans Affairs took an important step forward by temporarily offering in vitro fertilization services,” said Rep. Larsen, a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “But the fight is not over. It is time to lift the ban.” “When we send our men and women to war, we promise to be there for them when they return, no matter what,” said Senator Murray, a senior member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “But for years, servicemembers and veterans who suffered injuries while fighting on our behalf find their country falls short when it comes to helping them with the one thing they want most—the ability to have a child. This bill is our chance to build on the progress we made last year and make clear we are committed to helping our military families, not just for the next two years, but always.” More information on the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2017 here. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Ahead of the third anniversary of the Oso mudslide, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement: “In the three years since the tragedy, the community has shown its strength, resilience and compassion – pulling together through the kindness of neighbors, the bravery of first responders and volunteers, and the hard work of local leaders like the economic development plan advancing as part of the America's Best Communities competition. The mudslide that killed 43 people forever changed Oso, Darrington, Arlington and the surrounding community. While Oso has come a long way since 2014, the tragedy and those who lost their lives will never be forgotten.” ###
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. schools could receive additional resources to prevent mass shootings under bipartisan legislation led by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and cosponsored by Reps. Mike Coffman (CO-06), Susan Brooks (IN-05) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01). The School Safety Act of 2017 would renew the Secure Our Schools program, which provides resources to local, state and tribal governments to meet schools’ individual security needs. The program has not been funded by Congress since 2010. “In the years since Congress neglected to renew this critical program, hundreds of school shootings have taken place across the United States,” said Rep. Larsen. “My heart still hurts when I think about the parents who received the worst imaginable news in 2014 following the shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck high school. If this bill can prevent even one family from going through that experience, then Congress has a responsibility to take action. And for me, the alternative – doing nothing – is simply not an option.” “School should be a place where kids and teachers feel safe, and the School Safety Act will help schools, in partnership with local law enforcement, put more effective security and response technologies in place,” said Rep. Brooks. “In talking with local school administrators and law enforcement officers in my district about how to improve school safety, a lack of resources to invest in life-saving technologies was a top concern I heard. That’s why I am proud to help introduce this legislation, which helps equip schools to keep our students and teachers safe.” “Schools should be a safe place for students to learn and achieve their full potential,” said Rep. Coffman. “Keeping students and teachers safe is not only the right thing to do, but also a worthwhile use of our resources. The School Safety Act will protect Colorado’s educational institutions, provide emergency response training for teachers, and best equip our schools to deal with threats of the 21st century. I am a proud sponsor of this legislation.” “I’m strongly committed to ensuring the safety and security of our students. While there is no one law that will prevent every single instance of senseless violence, like the tragic shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in 2014, we can and must do more. The School Safety and Security Act is an important first step and I’m honored to help introduce it with Congressman Larsen. This bipartisan legislation will provide critical resources to keep our schools safer,” said Rep. DelBene. Specifically, the legislation would reauthorize $30 million in federal resources to improve security measures in schools, training for staff and students as well as tools like metal detectors and locks. In addition, the legislation would improve the program by allowing funding to cover emergency communications systems with local law enforcement. According to Everytown for Gun Safety, between 2013-2015 there were at least 160 U.S. school shootings resulting in 59 deaths – including five students who were killed at a shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in Marysville, WA, in 2014. The Secure Our Schools program takes a comprehensive approach to preventing violence in schools based on schools’ unique needs. Funds awarded through the program’s grants can pay for physical deterrents, security assessments, security training and coordination with local law enforcement. Last year, Larsen and Brooks launched the School Safety Caucus to focus on best practices for school safety and investments to help schools meet their unique safety needs. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Key Pacific Northwest transportation and environmental projects are in jeopardy under President Trump’s proposed budget – including Sound Transit’s plans to provide light rail service to Lynnwood and Federal Way, areas facing some of the worst congestion in Washington state. $1.1 billion in funds currently set aside for the Lynnwood Link Extension as well as $500 million for the Federal Way extension would be eliminated under Trump’s budget blueprint as part of changes to the Federal Transit Administration’s Capital Investment Grant Program. “In the Pacific Northwest transportation means jobs, and a healthy American economy cannot exist without the efficient movement of goods and people,” said Larsen, a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “The President is taking a sledgehammer to America’s infrastructure, something that is particularly baffling in light of last weeks’ report from the American Society of Engineers which showed that U.S. infrastructure is on life support. When considered with the deep cuts to environmental protection, labor and diplomacy – the President’s budget is a disgrace.” The President’s budget also entirely eradicates the popular Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. The TIGER program has boosted key projects in Washington’s 2nd District. In July of 2016, Larsen announced that the Port of Everett was awarded a $10,000,000 competitive grant through the TIGER program to help complete the South Terminal Modernization Project. Once complete, the project will provide for the better transfer of intermodal cargo and add on-dock rail capacity to handle heavier freight loads. In 2015, the Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project received $10 million through the TIGER program after Larsen wrote a letter of support. This project is critical to increase the efficiency and capacity of the ferry terminal, and will provide a safer loading center for pedestrians and bike-users. Under President Trump’s budget, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) funding for Puget Sound would be reduced by more than 90 percent and funding for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would be cut by nearly 20 percent. Nationally, nearly one third of the EPA’s budget would be on the chopping block in addition to 3,200 EPA jobs. Between 2010-2015, the EPA provided 52 grants for Puget Sound recovery and restoration projects, including: Phase I of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project Selection and Design – $426,597 o Significant ecosystem problems were identified, large-scale and system-wide solutions were evaluated to restore critical nearshore processes and habitats, including bluffs, beaches, shorelines, mudflats, salt marshes, gravel spits and estuaries. Chico Creek Estuary Restoration Project – $600,000 o Fish passage blockages were removed, 2.3 acres of salt marsh and 1.1 acres of nearshore uplands were conserved and 1.1 acres of estuarine and riparian habitat were restored. Kitsap Regional Shoreline Restoration Project – $763,200 o Kitsap County worked with landowners to remove bulkheads which restored natural sediment supplies to priority nearshore areas. Piper's Creek Flow Control Plan – $850,904 o Seattle Public Utilities established a stormwater flow control plan for the Piper's Creek watershed using hydrologic modeling and green stormwater infrastructure techniques. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Washington state Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler today discussed the impacts of Trumpcare, the Republican plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, on Washington state during a hearing organized by House Democrats. Insurance Commissioner Kreidler opened by speaking to the benefits of the Affordable Care Act. “The state of Washington fully implemented the Affordable Care Act…we saw a decline in the number of people who were uninsured from 14 to 5.8 percent. The individual market is thriving in the state of Washington – we have more carriers in the individual market today than we did before the Affordable Care Act…150 plans and 13 insurers in the market. We are doing extremely well in the state of Washington.” According to Kreidler, Washington state’s analysis found that “the impact of Trumpcare on the state of Washington would be devastating… The [rate of uninsured] would go from 5.8 to 15 percent – higher than it was before the Affordable Care Act… lower and middle income people in rural areas are hit the hardest. People under the age of 30 and those between 50-64 are hard hit. People earning about $30,000 are by far the ones that are most seriously impacted. 81% of the people the Medicaid expansion program are at the federal poverty level or lower – they are not going to go out and buy an individual policy, they can’t afford it. It means that they go uninsured and I am extremely worried about that.” Larsen asked about the impacts of eliminating the individual mandate: “can you compare the ability of the individual mandate to keep or bring people in the pool versus the 30 percent tax that the Republican’s propose for folks who do not keep continuous coverage and the likelihood of success of a 30 percent tax versus the alternative?” In response, Kreidler pointed out that Trumpcare’s penalty does not motivate individuals – especially younger, healthier individuals – to enter into the insurance pool. Trumpcare’s 30 percent penalty will only incentivize younger and healthier individuals to “sit it out and be prepared to pay the penalty once they become sick…you could see deterioration in the individual market as a result.” “It follows that based on that analysis there would be more price pressure on seniors who, under the Republican plan, are already getting hit pretty hard,” said Larsen. Kriedler agreed: “Absolutely, you deteriorate the quality of the risk pool. You wind up with more sick people, less healthy people and insurance works pretty bad when you only have sick people in the market.” Key provisions of Trumpcare include repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, phasing out critical federal healthcare resources for states and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. The legislation also reduces the quality of healthcare by removing health insurance benefit requirements for some lower-income Americans, which could exacerbate the opioids crisis by leaving up to 1.3 million people without access to substance abuse services. According to a report on Trumpcare from the Congressional Budget Office, 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance over the next decade, average healthcare premiums would rise by 15-20% over the next two years and critical federal healthcare funding to states would be cut by $880 billion. Previous reports from the Joint Committee on Taxation show that Trumpcare will also provide a $600 billion tax break – primarily for the wealthiest Americans. Read the full text of today's letter from Governor Inslee and Insurance Comissioner Kreidler to Rep. Larsen HERE. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Peter DeFazio (OR-04) today highlighted the negative consequences for the U.S. aviation system under President Trump’s proposed budget. Key provisions of the President’s budget include moving oversight of the nation’s air traffic control (ATC) system from the Federal Aviation Administration to “an independent, non-governmental organization” and eliminating funding for the Essential Air Service program, which provides commercial air service in small and rural communities across the country. “President Trump’s budget ignores basic facts about the importance of the U.S. aviation system,” said Larsen, the Ranking Member on the House Aviation Subcommittee. “The fact is privatizing America’s air-traffic control system would be a long, difficult process that could jeopardize the safety of the flying public. The fact is the national airspace is becoming more efficient thanks to the progress of NextGen, which has delivered more than $2.7 billion in benefits to airlines and operators of general aviation aircraft. And the fact is eliminating the Essential Air Service program is short-sighted and would take away a vital lifeline for small and rural communities across the United States. The President’s proposed budget does not account for those facts and it is the users of the national airspace who will pay the price.” “The budget release by the Trump Administration supports a plan to privatize our nation’s ATC system—a plan that failed to pass Congress last year due to lack of support,” said DeFazio, the Ranking Member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “For the last two years, opponents of this short-sighted plan have raised serious concerns about whether ATC privatization would guarantee safety, protect national security, expedite new technology, and keep our aviation system solvent. Proponents have failed to answer any of the serious questions we have raised. Air traffic control privatization will not benefit the flying public and it definitely will not benefit taxpayers who will be on the hook for bailing out the private ATC corporation if it fails. President Trump’s budget also eliminates the Essential Air Service program, which provides air service to 173 rural communities. Despite his promises to rebuild our ‘third-world’ airports, his budget severs critical rural access to the aviation system and jeopardizes jobs and economic growth in large and small communities. Bottom line: this so-called ‘skinny’ budget exposes the big fat lies President Trump has told the American people when it comes to rebuilding our transportation infrastructure. I would pronounce it dead on arrival, but my Republican colleagues have beat me to the punch.” Larsen and DeFazio have led Democratic opposition to the plan to privatize the federal ATC system, consistently raising concerns about the challenges and unanswered questions involved in such a proposal. Air Traffic Control Today, President Trump’s FY 2018 Budget supported a highly controversial proposal to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system and hand over billions of dollars’ worth of aviation assets to special interests. In 2016, Republicans proposed to privatize air traffic control services and place them under the control of an airline-dominated board. The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure held only one three-hour hearing on that legislation to privatize the ATC system used by nearly 823 million travelers. The Committee marked up the bill and passed it over bipartisan opposition less than 24 hours later. The legislation faced significant bipartisan opposition in the House and the Senate and died without floor action. The Congressional Budget Office determined that the Republican bill to privatize the United States ATC system would increase the deficit by nearly $20 billion over 10 years. In November 2016, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) could not confirm that a private ATC system would be capable of protecting national security and collaborating with the military to protect Americans from homeland security threats. Nor could it guarantee that a private corporation would speed up technological advances and NextGen implementation. A previous report from GAO found that ATC privatization could negatively affect small and rural communities by jeopardizing their access to the aviation system. It could also mean higher costs for passengers and other users of the system including general and business aviation. A privatized ATC system would be “too big to fail,” meaning consumers or taxpayers might have to bail out the private corporation if it could not pay the $10 billion-plus that it costs to operate a safe system. Finally, privatization would jeopardize safety oversight by splitting the Federal Aviation Administration in two and leaving its safety programs vulnerable to sequestration and shutdowns. For additional information, including background, letters of opposition, and Dear Colleague letters, click here. Essential Air Service More than three decades ago, Congress enacted the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, which phased out the Federal government’s control over domestic fares and routes. At the time, Congress also recognized that the free market alone could not be relied on to maintain air service to all small communities. The Act established the Essential Air Service (EAS) program, which guaranteed that communities served by air carriers before deregulation would continue to receive a certain level of scheduled air service. In subsequent legislation, Congress modified the program to ensure that it only provides air service if the service can be provided at a reasonable cost. EAS is necessary to link small communities to the larger system of commerce and, in the process, to create and sustain local jobs in rural communities. President Trump’s Budget eliminates EAS and the air service it helps provide to 173 communities across the United States. By reneging on the Federal commitment to support small and rural community air service, the budget effectively contemplates a policy of two Americas – one wealthy enough to support scheduled air service, and the other increasingly isolated and unable to afford full access to our national aviation system. ###
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office released its much-anticipated score detailing projected impacts of Trumpcare, the GOP health care bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. The report found that under Trumpcare, 24 million fewer Americans would have health insurance over the next decade, average healthcare premiums would rise by 15-20% over the next two years and critical federal healthcare funding to states would be cut by $880 billion. Previous reports from the Joint Committee on Taxation show that Trumpcare will also provide a $600 billion tax break – primarily for the wealthiest Americans. “Trumpcare will cover 24 million fewer people, increase average premiums by 15-20% over the next two years and defund Planned Parenthood – all to give a $600 billion tax break to the rich,” said Larsen. “The numbers are in and they paint a clear picture: by any meaningful measurement such as health care quality, coverage, or cost, Trumpcare is a disaster when compared against the Affordable Care Act. Instead of improving upon current law – which reduced the deficit and resulted in the lowest uninsured rate in American history – President Trump and Speaker Ryan have devised a scheme that would leave tens of millions of people without health coverage while giving a tax break to the super wealthy.” Key provisions of Trumpcare include repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, phasing out critical federal healthcare resources for states and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. The legislation also reduces the quality of healthcare by removing health insurance benefit requirements for some lower-income Americans, which could also exacerbate the opioids crisis by leaving up to 1.3 million people without access to substance abuse services. In addition to the cost of premiums rising 15-20% by 2019, Trumpcare’s age-based tax credit would result in deep cuts to the tax credits that help low-income and elderly individuals afford health insurance. Trumpcare would compound these cuts by allowing insurance companies to further increase premiums for seniors. Since January, Larsen has held Affordable Care Act “Town Talks” in six towns and cities across Northwest Washington – hearing from more than 800 constituents in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, and potential to expand health care coverage for those who need it most. ###
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge his colleagues to oppose Trumpcare, also known as the American Health Care Act, a bill released earlier this week by House Republicans to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to the American Health Care Act. Over the past several weeks, I have held six town halls where I discussed healthcare with more than 800 of my constituents. Thousands more have called in or contacted my office online. Erica from Arlington, Washington, told me thanks to the Affordable Care Act, her family can keep their house and pay their mortgage. Nancy from Bellingham, Washington, told me she works with families who “rely on [Medicaid] to avoid bankruptcy due to extra medical costs” that come with caring for babies with disabilities. So many Washingtonians support the Affordable Care Act and benefit from it. And of my constituents who oppose the Affordable Care Act, none have asked me to support legislation that would cover fewer people. None of my constituents asked Congress to make poor people pay more for health insurance. And not one of my constituents asked Congress to give the rich a massive tax break. But that is exactly what the American Health Care Act will do. Mr. Speaker, this bill will hurt people – women, seniors individuals with disabilities, and middle class families. It will result in universal chaos – not universal coverage. I strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this measure. Thank you, I yield back,” said Larsen. Key provisions of Trumpcare include repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, phasing out Medicaid expansion by the end of the 2019 and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. Additionally, by creating an age-based tax credit, the legislation would result in deep cuts to the tax credits that help low-income and elderly individuals afford health insurance. Since January, Larsen has held Affordable Care Act “Town Talks” in six towns and cities across Northwest Washington – hearing from more than 800 constituents in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, and potential to expand health care coverage for those who need it most. ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is stepping up his call on federal lawmakers and the President to invest in the nation’s crumbling infrastructure following the release of the American Society of Civil Engineers’ 2017 Infrastructure Report Card, which gave infrastructure in the United States’ a “D+”. In 2013, the United States received the same near-failing grade. The quadrennial report evaluates aviation, bridges, dams, drinking water, energy, hazardous waste, inland water ways, levees, parks and recreation, ports, rail, roads, schools, solid waste, transit, and wastewater infrastructure throughout the country. “The fates of American infrastructure and the American economy are intertwined, and the country’s infrastructure is on life support,” said Larsen, a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “The American economy cannot tap into its full potential without the efficient movement of goods and people. This report underscores the need for Congress and the President need to quit dragging their feet and get serious about robust infrastructure investments.” Larsen’s statement comes as President Trump pledged last week to work with the 115th Congress on a $1 trillion transportation and infrastructure plan. Larsen recently reintroduced his Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery for Cities Underfunded Because of Size (TIGER CUBS) Act of 2017, which would set-aside 20 percent of the funds made available through the popular Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program for smaller and medium-sized cities like Anacortes, Arlington, Bothell, Edmonds, Ferndale, Lake Stevens, Lynnwood, Lynden, Mill Creek, Monroe, Mountlake Terrace, Mount Vernon, Mukilteo, and Sedro-Woolley. Large cities and statewide projects receive the lion’s share of TIGER funding, with roughly a quarter of funds set aside for rural communities. By reserving 20 percent of TIGER funds for cities with populations between 10,000 and 50,000 people, Larsen’s legislation would give Washington’s small and mid-size cities a better shot at securing TIGER resources. The TIGER program has boosted key projects in Washington’s 2nd District. In July of 2016, Larsen announced that the Port of Everett was awarded a $10,000,000 competitive grant through the TIGER program to help complete the South Terminal Modernization Project. And in 2015, the Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project received $10 million through the TIGER program after Larsen wrote a letter of support. In 2015, Larsen helped pass a five-year transportation bill which secured a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding to improve Washington state’s infrastructure. ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the top-Ranking Democrat on House Aviation Subcommittee, has introduced the Know Before You Fly Act, legislation aimed at boosting consumer protections for air travelers. Larsen, who introduced the legislation yesterday alongside Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), unveiled H.R. 1420 in a hearing of the House Aviation Subcommittee which featured Alaska Airlines CEO Brad Tilden as a key witness. “Unexpected fees and lengthy delays are two surefire ways to ruin someone’s trip,” said Larsen. “By requiring airlines to be more transparent about baggage fees and how they will help passengers affected by large-scale network meltdowns, this bill would institute long-overdue consumer protections for folks who fly.” H.R. 1420 would direct more transparency from airlines in terms of what services will be provided to air travelers during mass flight delays and cancellations resulting from computer network failures, as well as require airlines to inform passengers about any baggage and ancillary fees at the front end of the transaction. In 2015 and 2016, numerous U.S. airline computer network failures delayed or cancelled tens of thousands of flights, stranding millions of travelers at airports across the country. The Know Before You Fly Act will guarantee travelers affected by widespread network disruptions that delay or cancel flights know what relief – such as food, hotel vouchers, or seats on another airline – they can expect from airlines before purchasing a ticket. U.S. airlines have surged to record profitability in recent years, bolstered in part by their assessment of ancillary charges. In 2015 alone, airlines collected $6.8 billion in bag fees and reservation change fees. The Trump administration has held up a Department of Transportation rulemaking that tightens requirements on airlines’ disclosure of ancillary fees. Larsen’s bill would codify the existing requirement that airlines and ticket agents must disclose and provide a list of checked and carry-on bag fees before customers purchase a ticket. In addition, the bill directs the Federal Aviation Administration to improve its process for collecting and analyzing reports of potentially hazardous fume events in airplane cabins. ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a hearing of the House Aviation Subcommittee, Alaska Airlines CEO Brad Tilden and the Subcommittee’s top-Ranking Democrat, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), discussed progress being made to modernize the national airspace as part of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s NextGen program and Larsen announced new legislation aimed at protecting consumers from hidden baggage fees and large-scale flight delays. Today’s hearing – which focused on the needs of airlines and other aviation operators – was the third in a series of hearings focused on reauthorizing the FAA. The agency’s authority expires in September 2017. “The U.S. airspace is the busiest and most complex in the world and is undergoing a historic shift in modernization in the form of the Federal Aviation Administration’s NextGen program,” said Larsen. “Alaska Airlines has been a strong advocate for the NextGen program, which has delivered more than $2.7 billion in benefits to airlines and operators of general aviation aircraft, and is expected to produce $13 billion in benefits for the government and users by 2020 and over $160 billion by 2030. I understand that NextGen’s performance-based navigation procedures allow Alaska Airlines flights to fly more directly and precisely into Juneau each day, and the Greener Skies initiative improves efficiency of the airline’s flights landing at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.” WATCH: “NextGen’s performance-based navigation procedures allow Alaska Airlines flights to fly more directly and precisely into Juneau each day, and the Greener Skies initiative improves efficiency of the airline’s flights landing at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport” - Larsen Alaska Airlines CEO Brad Tilden spoke to the opportunity that exists for modernizing the nation’s aviation infrastructure. In particular, while Alaska currently utilizes NextGen technologies, it is eager to connect operations systems-wide in order to maximize NextGen’s benefits as safely and efficiently as possible. Larsen lauded the findings of a recent DOT Inspector General report which found that some regional airlines are increasing pay to attract additional pilots, and spoke to the importance of reforms to what he called “out-of-date federal regulations on flight attendants’ flight and duty periods.” Additionally, Larsen and Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR- 04) unveiled legislation aimed at boosting consumer protections. “Unexpected fees and lengthy delays are two surefire ways to ruin someone’s trip,” Larsen said. “By requiring airlines to be more transparent about baggage fees and how they will help passengers affected by large-scale network meltdowns, the Know Before You Fly Act would institute long-overdue consumer protections for folks who fly.” Recently, Larsen has helped lead FAA reauthorization hearings where he emphasized ways to alleviate congestion and improve user experience at Sea-Tac and reform aircraft certification to help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs by saving time, making products safer and transporting them to market more quickly. Larsen has consistently advocated for a long-term, comprehensive FAA reauthorization. ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan unveiled his plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act: “This bill means lower quality care, less coverage and higher costs for Washington’s seniors, middle class families and individuals with disabilities,” said Larsen. “It raids Medicaid in order to provide billions in tax breaks for the rich, obliterates funding for Planned Parenthood and would throw the healthcare market into disarray. This will result in universal chaos – not universal coverage.” Key provisions of the American Health Care Act include repealing the individual mandate, doing away with Affordable Care Act tax credits that low- and middle-income families rely on to afford health insurance, phasing out Medicaid expansion by the end of the 2019 and repealing the taxes on wealthy Americans which currently finance the Affordable Care Act. Additionally, by creating an age-based tax credit, the legislation would result in deep cuts to the tax credits that help low-income and elderly individuals afford health insurance. Since January, Larsen has held Affordable Care Act “Town Talks” in six towns and cities across Northwest Washington – hearing from more than 800 constituents in Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langley and Sedro-Woolley. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, and potential to expand health care coverage for those who need it most. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after reports that President Donald Trump plans to gut Environmental Protection Agency funding for Puget Sound by more than 90 percent and cut funding for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration by nearly 20 percent: “These cuts would decimate EPA-backed Puget Sound restoration and leave NOAA without the necessary resources to fight climate change and support Pacific Northwest fisheries,” said Larsen. “I will use every tool at my disposal to oppose these slash and burn cuts and continue fighting for a healthy, clean and protected environment.” In addition to reducing resources for Puget Sound from $28 million in FY 2016 to $2 million in FY 2018, the President is reportedly seeking cut a quarter of the Agency’s total budget, eliminating 3,000 positions and impacting programs aimed at reversing climate change, and protecting clean air and water. Last year, President Obama signed the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, authorizing an effort Larsen spearheaded to make the largest-ever investment in Puget Sound restoration as part of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project. Larsen, who has a long record of fighting to protect the environment, was recently given a 100% by the League of Conservation Voters for his voting record in 2016. In May of last year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – became law. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Reps. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Bill Posey (R-FL), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) have founded and will serve as co-chairs of the Congressional Estuary Caucus in the 115th Congress. The new caucus will give the nation’s estuaries a stronger voice and presence in Congress by uniting lawmakers in support of these critical ecosystems. 27 House Members from around the nation have joined the new Caucus. “I have long supported estuary restoration in the Pacific Northwest and around the country, and I am proud to join my colleagues as a co-chair of the Estuary Caucus,” said Larsen. “Estuaries like the Puget Sound are cornerstones of a healthy environment – I will continue working hard to protect these unique habitats and the many species of fish, birds and other wildlife that rely on them.” “Florida’s Indian River Lagoon is essential to the quality of life, environment, and economy in our State,” said Rep. Bill Posey. “As the most biologically diverse estuary in North America, our lagoon is also an invaluable asset to our nation, and we’re fortunate that communities across the country share our passion and commitment to protecting these delicate ecosystems. I am honored to serve as a co-chair of this bipartisan caucus, which will help promote and protect our nation’s estuaries by ensuring they have an influential voice in Congress.” “Estuaries are an essential part of the Pacific Northwest environment, sheltering salmon, filtering water, and reducing flooding,” said Rep. Suzanne Bonamici. “In Northwest Oregon, communities recognize the importance of protecting estuaries for environmental health, for economies that rely on fishing and tourism, and for the enjoyment of future generations. I’m proud to be the co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Estuaries Caucus to protect these fragile ecosystems and the many economic and environmental benefits they provide.” “Protecting and promoting our nation’s estuaries is a shared goal by lawmakers, environmental groups and concerned citizens across the country,” said Rep. Frank LoBiondo. “The Congressional Estuary Caucus represents a bipartisan approach to sound environmental and economic policy.” The Congressional Estuary Caucus will educate Members and staff on the importance of estuaries to the environment, communities and national economy. The caucus will hold a variety of events throughout the 115th Congress to promote initiatives that play a role in restoring and protecting the health of estuaries. ###
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed an executive order barring citizens from six Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for 90 days, suspending admission of all refugees for 120 days and slashing the number of refugees the United States will accept in FY 2017 from 110,000 to 50,000. Unlike Trump’s original executive order, today’s policy does not include Iraq among the countries whose citizens are barred from entering the United States, Syrian refugees are banned for 120 days rather than indefinitely and people with existing visas and green cards will still be allowed to enter. “The President learned little from the last failed executive order, which plunged the country into chaos and, thanks to Washington state’s leadership, was rejected by the courts,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The intent of this new policy – which is to vilify Muslim immigrants and refugees – is just as morally decrepit and unabashedly un-American as the original. This will not make our country safer.” Larsen has cosponsored the No Religious Registry Act, a bill that would prohibit the U.S. government from collecting information or utilizing a registry to classify individuals on the basis of religious affiliation. ###
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON D.C.—Back from a bipartisan Congressional trip to Singapore, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is urging deeper U.S.-Singapore relations and engagement. Last week, Larsen traveled to Singapore as part of a U.S. delegation led by Democratic Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10) and Republican Rep. Bradley Byrne (AL-01) aimed at forging stronger economic and diplomatic ties between the United States and Singapore. “Washington state stands to benefit from a strong relationship between the United States and Singapore,” said Larsen, co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “The main goal for me was to expand on my past engagement in the Asia-Pacific by visiting the one country that is at the actual crossroads of the region. My takeaway is clear: the U.S. needs to show up for Singapore in all ways – not just militarily.” See photos of Larsen’s trip to Singapore at https://twitter.com/RickonAP In terms of dollar value, Singapore is among the top 25 countries that purchase goods from Washington state businesses – which exported more than $6.3 billion to Singapore between 2012-2015, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The U.S. Congressional delegation met with political, military, and business leaders in Singapore, including: · Minister for Home Affairs and Law, K. Shanmugam · Minister for Defence, Dr. Ng Eng Hen · Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Vivian Balakrishnan · Minister for Trade and Industry, Lim Hng Kiang · American Chamber of Commerce and U.S.-ASEAN Business Council Larsen cofounded the U.S.–China working group with former Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL). While Larsen has traveled to China numerous times, this was his first time trip to Singapore and Southeast Asia. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is calling on U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign following reports which revealed Sessions lied under oath about communication with Russian officials. “After reviewing the facts, it is clear to me that Jeff Sessions should resign,” said Larsen, a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee. “When you lie under oath – in this case about contact with a government openly hostile to the United States – you do not get to be the nation’s top law enforcement official. A full, bipartisan investigation into ties between President Trump and Russia must move forward.” Larsen has urged Congress and the FBI to investigate ties between the Russian government and President Trump, and demanded the Department of Justice release any information related to Trump’s financial conflicts of interest or emoluments clause violations. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— In a hearing of the House Aviation Subcommittee, Sea-Tac Airport Managing Director Lance Lyttle, and the Subcommittee’s top-Ranking Democrat, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), discussed ways to alleviate congestion and improve user experience at Sea-Tac as part of upcoming efforts to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Today’s hearing – which focused on boosting investments in the nation’s airports – was the second of five hearings focused on reauthorizing the FAA. The agency’s authority expires in September 2017. WATCH: Larsen’s opening remarks and an exchange between Larsen and Lyttle “Many of my constituents and tens of millions of others rely on Sea-Tac each year for air travel. Mr. Lyttle, I look forward to hearing from you today in particular about the needs and challenges Sea-Tac faces as it undergoes its long-term capital improvement plan to modernize facilities, alleviate congestion – which I know is a serious issue at Sea-Tac – as well as improve the consumer experience,” said Larsen. Lyttle pointed out that Sea-Tac’s ability to avoid being a “chokepoint” is limited in part because the airport “just does not have enough gates. During peak times we cannot accommodate all the airlines at the airport... gates are our biggest challenge.” To alleviate congestion, Lyttle highlighted Sea-Tac’s planned capital improvement projects which will “add eight additional gates to the airport, create a direct connection to the terminal for international travelers and more than double North Satellite dining and retail establishments.” However, according to Lyttle’s opening remarks, gains will be short-lived unless Sea-Tac adds additional gates to meet the airport’s explosive growth, which is forecasted to reach 66 million annual passengers by 2034. “Sea-Tac will need to add 35 more gates, dramatically expand ticketing/check-in facilities, and substantially rebuild airport access roadways,” expansions which Lyttle said could be possible if Congress gives airports greater funding flexibility – through changes to key funding streams such as the Passenger Facility Charge and the Airport Improvement Program – in upcoming legislation reauthorizing the FAA. Earlier this month, Larsen helped lead a hearing where he emphasized that reforming aircraft certification should be included in the next FAA reauthorization. According to the state of Washington, in 2014 the aerospace industry generated over $85 billion in economic activity across the state and more than 1,300 aerospace businesses supported 260,000+ jobs. Larsen has pushed for a long-term, comprehensive FAA reauthorization and called for reforms to streamline the FAA certification process that will help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs by saving time, making products safer and transporting them to market more quickly. ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s speech to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, I hope to hear opportunities for bipartisan common ground with the President, specifically on one of my top priorities in Congress: repairing the nation’s aging infrastructure. The President has repeatedly stated his interest in a large scale infrastructure plan and I hope he follows through with a plan that includes significant federal investments instead of relying solely on tax-credits. Investing in transportation and infrastructure is a surefire way to create good-paying jobs and ensure the efficient movement of goods and people – something that is critical for long-term economic growth. Waiting until 2018 to tackle an infrastructure bill – as some Congressional Republicans have suggested – would mean delaying the new jobs and infrastructure improvements that are sorely needed around the country. When the President discusses healthcare this evening, it will be in the context of a Republican-led White House and Congress that want to repeal the Affordable Care Act without having agreed on what to replace it with – a move that would harm 537,000 Washingtonians who gained coverage through the Affordable Care Act, 2,969,000 who live with a pre-existing condition and millions more whose critical benefits and health costs are at risk. And this is after more than 1,000 Washingtonians have shared their Affordable Care Act story with me at four recent town halls and www.larsen.house.gov/shareyourstory, the overwhelming majority of whom are demanding any plan to replace the Affordable Care Act meet the same standards of quality, coverage and cost. As a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I also strongly support ensuring the women and men of the U.S. military have the tools and resources necessary to be mission-ready. However, siphoning resources from education, environmental protection efforts and social safety net programs in order to increase military spending – something else I expect to hear from the President – would be a grave mistake. In recent weeks, I have spoken out frequently and forcefully against the President’s actions to scapegoat refugees and break up immigrant families, undermine the role of military and intelligence advisors in national security decisions and target America’s most vulnerable populations. I will continue to hold the Trump administration accountable while advancing my own agenda to fight for Pacific Northwest jobs, engage economically in the Asia Pacific and around the globe, break down barriers for all people and protect Washington state’s environment.” ###
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The League of Conservation Voters has released its 2016 National Environmental Scorecard and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) earned the highest possible rating of 100%. “Protecting Washington state’s environment is one of my highest priorities in Congress,” Larsen said, “and the work to reverse climate change, preserve Washington’s pristine lands and waters and preserve wildlife is more important now than ever.” For more than 40 years, the National Environmental Scorecard has been a nationally accepted gold standard used to rate Members of Congress on environmental, public health, and energy issues. In 2016, Larsen – who has a long record of fighting to protect the environment – voted against efforts to attack the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, and the Antiquities Act. Last year, President Obama signed the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, authorizing an effort Larsen spearheaded to make the largest-ever investment in Puget Sound restoration as part of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project. In May of last year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – became law. Larsen also successfully fought to designate San Juan Islands National Monument in 2013 and to protect 106,577 acres of national forest as part of the Wild Sky Wilderness in 2008. ###
02.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the Trump administration rescinded Obama-era guidance requiring schools to protect transgender students by ensuring they can use bathrooms and locker rooms matching their gender identity: “Equal access to school is not a state’s rights issue. Transgender children – who face tragically high levels of bullying, harassment and suicide – are one of the most vulnerable populations of students. Removing much-needed protections for transgender children is nothing short of heartless.” ###
02.22.2017	Reps. introduce bipartisan Reducing Barriers for Veterans Education Act of 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Republican Rep. Luke Messer (IN-06) are working to reduce the financial burden on veterans seeking higher education by making application fees eligible under the Post 9/11 GI Bill. “Veterans should not miss out on higher education because of the cost of application fees,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. “This bill will ensure application fees do not prevent veterans from taking full advantage of educational opportunities made possible by the Post 9/11 GI Bill.” “College application fees can quickly add up and pose an unexpected financial barrier to education,” Messer said. “Our goal is to give veterans as much flexibility and as many options as possible to help them transition from serving our country to earning a degree. This is one small way to do that.” While the Post 9/11 GI Bill provides important educational benefits, the cost of applications to colleges, graduate schools, and technical and vocational schools – which can run into the hundreds of dollars – are not covered. Larsen and Messer’s bipartisan H.R. 1206, the Reducing Barriers for Veterans Education Act of 2017, would allow the Post 9/11 GI Bill to cover up to $750 of applications to colleges, universities, graduate schools, as well as technical and vocational schools. Larsen has a track record of working across the aisle to deliver results for veterans and championing veterans issues. Last year, Larsen and Republican Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) teamed up to pass the FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act which expanded paid sick leave benefits for veterans hired by the Federal Aviation Administration. And after years of Larsen’s advocacy, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in January announced that veterans wounded in the line of duty are now able to access in vitro fertilization through the VA. ###
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior Member of the House Armed Services Committee, is calling for a full investigation into ties between the Russian government and President Trump and demanding the Department of Justice release any information related to Trump’s financial conflicts of interest or emoluments clause violations. Following the resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, Larsen said “the American people need to know more information about what President Trump knew and when he knew it.” Accordingly, today Larsen sent a letter to FBI Director James Comey, in which he wrote: “Flynn’s resignation…raises important questions about the extent of collaboration between the Trump campaign and the Russian government…To give peace of mind to the American people, I request that the investigation be prompt and thorough in resolving whether Flynn’s conversations with Kislyak were known to or authorized by persons in the Trump campaign. In addition, I ask you to include in the investigation a full assessment of the scope of contact between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.” Larsen has cosponsored the bipartisan Protecting Our Democracy Act which would create an independent commission to investigate the full extent of Russian actions to influence the 2016 U.S. elections. Additionally, Larsen has cosponsored H.Res.111, a Resolution of Inquiry directing the Department of Justice to provide the House of Representatives with all information related to President Trump and his associates’ financial conflicts of interest, ethics violations and violations of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which prohibits elected officials from receiving payments from foreign governments. Earlier this month, Larsen introduced the Ensuring Sound Military and Intelligence Advice Act of 2017, a bill that aims to preserve the role of professional military and intelligence advice in America’s most important national security decisions. This legislation followed a move by President Trump to remove the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (the President’s principal military advisor) and the Director of National Intelligence (the President’s chief intelligence advisor) from the influential Principals Committee of the National Security Council. In their place, President Trump added White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) has introduced legislation to help students access good-paying American manufacturing jobs by creating partnerships between high schools, community colleges, and state apprenticeships. “By preparing students to immediately succeed in manufacturing and other STEM careers, this bill is a win-win-win for job seekers, the manufacturing sector, and the U.S. economy,” Larsen said. There are as many as 25,000 unfilled science, technology, engineering and mathematics jobs in Washington state, according to the Boston Consulting Group. And, according to the Department of Labor, workers who complete apprenticeships earn $50,000 annually on average. Larsen’s Youth Access to American Jobs Act would support students starting in high school, through an associate’s degree and into an apprenticeship – helping them become job-ready quickly and effectively. The legislation has garnered support from organizations including the Washington Association for Career and Technical Education and SkillsUSA. "Connecting STEM with industry skills delivered in quality Career and Technical Education programs help students gain the education and skills that are in such high demand by all industries,” said Tim Knue, executive director of the Washington Association for Career and Technical Education. “This benefits both our national economy and the future success of our youth. It is truly my hope that Congress will pass this bill to make these types of opportunities for more students.” “SkillsUSA supports the Youth Access to American Jobs Act,” said Timothy Lawrence, executive director of SkillsUSA, a national organization that works to improve the country’s skilled workforce. “More students need access to STEM education pathways into manufacturing jobs. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act will create pathways to engage students and facilitate partnerships between schools and apprenticeship programs to make sure the skills learned directly relate to workforce needs. This bill builds a direct connection between high school students and good paying jobs.” Original cosponsors include: Reps. Tonko (NY-20), Norton (DC-at-large), Adam Smith (WA-09), Khanna (CA-17), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Garamendi (CA-03) , Swalwell (CA-15), Kilmer (WA-06), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Keating (MA-09), Speier (CA-14), Kaptur (OH-09), Grijalva (AZ-03), Chu (CA-23), Vargas (CA-51), Velazqeuz (NY-07), Pocan (WI-02), Langevin (RI-02), McNerney (CA-09), Slaughter (NY-25), Shea-Porter (NH-01), Titus (NV-01), DeSaulnier (CA-11), Etsy (CT-05), Nolan (MN-08), Jayapal (WA-07), Eshoo (CA-18), Heck (WA-10), Kuster (NH-02), DelBene (WA-01), Castor (FL-14) and Hastings (FL-20). Larsen first introduced the bill in the 2015 and has consistently been a proponent for STEM education. Last year, he launched the Congressional App Challenge in Washington’s Second Congressional District – an opportunity for students to learn key computer science skills by creating their own original applications for a local competition. Full text of the bill is available HERE. ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Aviation titled “Building a 21st Century Infrastructure for America: State of American Aviation Manufacturing,” newly re-appointed Ranking Member Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today highlighted the need to reform aircraft certification as part of the forthcoming Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization. Today’s hearing – which focused on the economic impacts certification has on U.S. aerospace manufacturers – was the first of five hearings focused on reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration. The agency’s authority will expire in September 2017. WATCH: State of American Aviation Manufacturing: Larsen Opening Statement “According to the state of Washington, in 2014 the aerospace industry generated over $85 billion in economic activity throughout the state. More than 1,300 aerospace businesses support more than 260,000 jobs – companies ranging from Boeing to the many small businesses that are a critical part of the aviation supply chain. There is some discussion going on in Lynnwood, Washington, today at the Pacific Northwest Aerospace Alliance conference on these very issues. Manufacturing and certification are critical to my home state, and the predictable and timely certification of aircraft and aircraft components is critical for domestic manufacturers to get their products to market. I look forward to hearing what challenges manufacturers face and what the Subcommittee and the FAA can do to make the FAA’s certification more consistent and efficient while ensuring the highest level of safety,” said Larsen. Larsen asked Boeing Vice President of Engineering John Hamilton, who was a witness at today’s hearing, how the certification process can be expedited. “We deliver a third of our Boeing 737 airplanes to China…[expediting these deliveries] requires a strong relationship between the FAA and their counterparts overseas,” Hamilton said. A second witness, Michael Thacker, Senior Vice President for Certification of Textron Aviation, suggested that the aerospace industry be empowered to certify more established and commonplace technologies that would better allow the FAA to focus on certifying newer technologies. Larsen also made it clear that certification and other critical reforms should be included in the next FAA reauthorization bill. “Last year, the Committee had been moving forward to pass a long-term FAA reauthorization. Bipartisan compromise and significant industry input produced an entire certification reform title that would have brought long-overdue changes to the FAA certification process,” Larsen said. “Certification, improved grant and safety programs, rules of the road for drones and boosted consumer protection are not back burner aviation issues – they are front burner aviation issues. And the next FAA reauthorization should be a long-term bill, comprehensive bill and address the issues on today’s agenda.” Larsen has pushed for a long-term FAA re-authorization and called for reforms to streamline the FAA certification process that will help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs by saving time, making products safer and transporting them to market more quickly. Additionally, Larsen has led Democratic opposition to plans calling for privatization of the Federal Air Traffic Control system, consistently raising concerns about challenges and unanswered questions. ###
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after National Security Adviser Michael Flynn resigned: “I woke up this morning to learn Michael Flynn, the President's National Security Adviser, resigned following reports that he discussed American sanctions against Russia with the Russian Ambassador before President Trump assumed office. The American people need to know more information about what President Trump knew and when he knew it. Flynn's resignation is unprecedented and extremely concerning because his actions could have been criminal and because President Obama put these sanctions in place after the Intelligence Community determined that Russian President Vladimir Putin sought to sway the 2016 U.S. Presidential election in favor of Trump. It is outrageous that Congressional Republicans continue to sit on their hands in the face of what is merely the latest evidence of this administration's disturbingly cozy relationship with Russia.” ###
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Many cities in the Pacific Northwest including Anacortes, Arlington, Bothell, Edmonds, Ferndale, Lake Stevens, Lynnwood, Lynden, Mill Creek, Monroe, Mountlake Terrace, Mount Vernon, Mukilteo, and Sedro-Woolley could benefit from more federal transportation funding under legislation introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), and co-sponsored by Reps. DelBene (WA-01), Kilmer (WA-06), Ryan (OH-13) and Brownley (CA-26). Larsen’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery for Cities Underfunded Because of Size (TIGER CUBS) Act of 2017 would set-aside 20 percent of the funds for smaller and medium-sized cities made available through the popular Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. “Small and mid-size cities play a critical role in powering Washington’s economy, but you would not know it based on how federal transportation funding is allocated,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “TIGER CUBS will help these cities earn their stripes as competitors for federal transportation dollars while repairing Washington’s roads, bridges and highways and creating good-paying jobs.” Large cities and statewide projects receive the lion’s share of TIGER funding, with roughly a quarter of funds set aside for rural communities. By reserving 20 percent of TIGER funds for cities with populations between 10,000 and 50,000 people, Larsen’s legislation would give Washington’s small and mid-size cities a better shot at securing TIGER resources. The reintroduction of TIGER CUBS, which Larsen first introduced in 2013, comes as President Trump has pledged to work with the 115th Congress on a large scale transportation and infrastructure plan to revitalize the U.S.’ roads, bridges and airports. The TIGER program has boosted key projects in Washington’s 2nd District. In July of 2016, Larsen announced that the Port of Everett was awarded a $10,000,000 competitive grant through the TIGER program to help complete the South Terminal Modernization Project. And in 2015, the Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project received $10 million through the TIGER program after Larsen wrote a letter of support. The following cities in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties would be eligible for the TIGER CUBS set-aside. Island County Oak Harbor Skagit Anacortes Mount Vernon Sedro-Woolley Snohomish County Arlington Bothell Edmonds Lake Stevens Lynnwood Mill Creek Monroe Mountlake Terrace Mukilteo Whatcom County Ferndale Lynden To learn more about the TIGER program, visit www.dot.gov/tiger. ###
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is once again cosponsoring the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement (ORCA) Act, a bill that aims to end the captivity of orca whales once and for all. The ORCA Act would permanently end orca captivity across the United States and prohibit orca breeding, the wild capture of orcas, and the import or export of orcas for purposes of public display. “Orcas are an iconic and beloved part of Pacific Northwest culture,” Larsen said. “Passing the ORCA Act will ensure future generations of orcas stay where they belong: in the wild, not in captivity.” Larsen has a long record of fighting to protect the environment. In 2016, President Obama signed the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, authorizing an effort Larsen spearheaded to make the largest-ever investment in Puget Sound restoration as part of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project. In May of last year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – became law. Larsen also successfully fought to designate San Juan Islands National Monument in 2013 and to protect 106,577 acres of national forest as part of the Wild Sky Wilderness in 2008. ###
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—After what he described as a “holy crap” moment, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, is introducing legislation to counter President Trump’s politicization of the National Security Council – the chief body responsible for advising the president on matters of national security. Last week, Trump moved to radically reorganize the National Security Council by removing the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (the President’s principal military advisor) and the Director of National Intelligence (the President’s chief intelligence advisor) from the influential Principals Committee. In their place, President Trump added White House chief strategist Steve Bannon. This move threatens to undermine the bipartisan principle of striving to avoid political influence on the National Security Council. “This is indeed a ‘holy crap’ moment,” Larsen said. “Replacing trusted military and intelligence advisors with someone accountable only to the President is extremely reckless. For the sake of national security, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence must have a role on the National Security Council that is at least equal to that of political hires such as Steve Bannon.” Larsen’s Ensuring Sound Military and Intelligence Advice Act of 2017 would preserve the role of professional military and intelligence advice in America’s most important national security decisions. Specifically, the legislation would amend the National Security Act of 1947 to ensure that “if any individual whose responsibilities are primarily political is designated as a regular attendee of meetings of the National Security Council or of any body of the National Security Council, including the Principals Committee, then the Director of National Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall also be designated as regular attendees of such Council or body.” Full text of the legislation is available HERE. ###
01.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s executive order which bars citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for 90 days, indefinitely bans refugees from Syria and suspends admission of all other refugees for 120 days. “This executive order scapegoats refugees fleeing war, terrorism and persecution – that is as low as it gets,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free’ – those are more than just words inscribed on the Statue of Liberty. The United States of America has always been a haven for everyone – regardless of religion or nationality – who seeks a better life. President Trump’s poorly thought out actions fly in the face of those foundational American values, and leave countless green card holders, international students and others with questions for which the administration has not provided answers.” Larsen has cosponsored the No Religious Registry Act, a bill that would prohibit the U.S. government from collecting information or utilizing a registry to classify individuals on the basis of religious affiliation. ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is calling on top election officials to put to bed President Trump’s unsubstantiated claims of mass voter fraud in the 2016 Presidential election. Larsen adds his support to top-Democratic Members of the House, Rep. Cummings, Rep. Robert Brady and Rep. Clyburn’s letters to election officials of all 50 states and the District of Columbia. The Members are requesting “all specific cases” of any “individual who cast a vote in the federal elections held in November 2016 [who] was legally prohibited from doing so.” “This is just the latest ruse to suppress the right to vote,” said Larsen, Vice-Chair of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus. “There is no proof for President Trump’s claims that 3-5 million people committed voter fraud in the past election. The fact is the President lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes and, unfortunately, hurt egos do not create facts. If it takes an investigation to make clear what most folks already know – that voter fraud in this country is incredibly rare – I welcome it.” Yesterday, Washington Secretary of State Kim Wyman confirmed that there was no evidence of illegal voting taking place anywhere in Washington state in the November election. Last year, Larsen helped launch the first-ever Congressional Voting Rights Caucus to protect Americans’ fundamental right to vote. Larsen is a cosponsor of the America Votes Act of 2015, a bill that aims to combat voter ID laws by allowing voters to sign a sworn written statement attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification required at their polling place. ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after President Trump endorsed torture in a recent interview with ABC News: “I am in fierce agreement with Secretary of Defense Mattis and CIA Director Pompeo – torture is ineffective. It is also against the law, and increases the likelihood of America’s enemies using similarly inhumane techniques against our women and men in uniform. One of the lowest points of my 16 years in Congress was when the United States engaged in waterboarding and ‘enhanced interrogation’ techniques. I did not endorse those actions then, and I do not endorse them now. America should not return to those dark days.” ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today took to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge his colleagues to oppose H.R. 7 – a bill that would tighten restrictions on women’s access to reproductive healthcare. H.R. 7 continues Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it, and comes one day after President Trump reinstated the “global gag rule” which undermines women’s reproductive healthcare outside the U.S. “Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 7, the latest attack on women’s reproductive rights. Today’s bill comes on the coattails of the new administration yesterday reinstating the “global gag rule” which limits women’s reproductive healthcare outside the U.S. And all of this, after 3.2 million women and men across the country participated in the Women’s March last Saturday. The march sent a clear message: that this administration should not undermine women’s rights and women’s healthcare. And this is the response? To undermine women’s reproductive healthcare? Well, Madam Speaker, the people of our country are watching. They are showing up. They are paying attention. And they will not back down in the face of attempts to move the country backwards. I urge my colleagues to oppose H.R. 7. Thank you, I yield back.” Click here to view the full video. Last week, Larsen was joined by more than 174 Members of Congress in urging then President-elect to reject policies that would harm women, repeal the Affordable Care Act and defund Planned Parenthood. Larsen also held a seven-stop Affordable Care Act Tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District – a series of events to hear from constituents, hospital administrators, healthcare providers, insurers, patient advocacy organizations and members of the faith community about how Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it will affect Washingtonians. ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) has been renamed the top-Ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, which has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation. Larsen is also joining the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, which has jurisdiction over the United States Coast Guard, regulation of ocean shipping and the merchant marine. “Bolstering growth and safety in our nation’s aviation system – and the tens of thousands of jobs in the Pacific Northwest that depend on that system – has been my focus as Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation,” said Larsen. “I will expand on that work – promoting policies to establish rules of the road for emerging technologies such as drones and commercial space aircraft, advocating for long-term funding certainty for the Federal Aviation Administration, and standing strong against efforts to privatize the nation’s air traffic control system. Additionally, I look forward to supporting Washington’s maritime industry, the women and men of the Coast Guard and the U.S.’ strategic position in the Arctic on the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation.” As Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, Larsen will continue to serve alongside Republican Chairman Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02). To date, Larsen has successfully used his position on the Subcommittee to spearhead a series of legislative accomplishments. In September 2016, the President signed into law Larsen’s bipartisan FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act, which expanded paid sick leave for newly hired veteran FAA employees with service-connected conditions rated as 30 percent or more disabled. In the most recent FAA reauthorization bill, Larsen championed a provision to require the U.S. Department of Transportation to update long-delayed standards for airplane lavatory access among passengers with disabilities. Additionally, Larsen has led Democratic opposition to plans calling for privatization of the Federal Air Traffic Control system, consistently raising concerns about challenges and unanswered questions. ###
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today veterans who have been wounded in the line of duty can access in vitro fertilization (IVF) through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA’s announcement follows years of Larsen’s advocacy, and a provision passed as part of the Congressional spending bill in September 2016 which temporarily circumvented a 1992 ban on in vitro fertilization for veterans. “It is great to see the VA moving forward to expand reproductive healthcare for veterans,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. “I applaud this progress, and I will keep fighting until the ban is permanently lifted.” The provision that temporarily lifted the ban – which was originally included in the Senate version of the bill by Senator Murray (D-WA) – allows the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide assisted reproductive technology and adoption reimbursement to veterans, and comes after a four year effort on the part of Larsen and Murray. Previously, the VA was able to provide veterans with fertility assessments, counseling and some treatments but not IVF – the most popular and successful assisted reproductive technology available today – which forced veterans to pay thousands of dollars to address fertility issues from service-connected injuries. Thousands of servicemembers suffer battlefield injuries that make it difficult or nearly impossible to have children without medical assistance, and a single IVF treatment can cost $12,000 or more. In 2016, Larsen held a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol with families of wounded veterans and the Wounded Warrior Project to urge an end to the ban. In May of that year, Larsen teamed up with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to urge the VA to work with Congress to help injured veterans access advanced fertility treatments. For years Larsen has been the House of Representatives’ leading voice for expanding reproductive care for veterans. In the 2015 Veterans Affairs spending bill Larsen pushed the Department to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, in April of 2016 the VA announced that IVF treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life – meaning that Congress has been the final barrier between affected veterans and the healthcare they need to start families. ###
01.18.2017	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) concluded an Affordable Care Act Tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District – a series of events to hear from constituents, hospital administrators, healthcare providers, insurers, patient advocacy organizations and members of the faith community about how Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it will affect Washingtonians. Larsen held “Town Talks” in Friday Harbor, Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Marysville, Anacortes, Langely and Sedro Woolley where he heard directly from 1000 constituents. In addition, Larsen met with representatives from 18 health organizations including the Alzheimer’s Association, AARP Washington State, Planned Parenthood of the Great Northwest & Hawaiian Islands, Swedish Medical Center, WA State Health Care Authority, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Faith Action Network, Premera Blue Cross, Unity Care NW, PeaceHealth, Island Hospital, Washington Association of Community & Migrant Health Centers, Community Health Centers of Snohomish County, Community Health Network of Washington, Sea Mar Community Health Center, Providence Regional Medical Center Everett, WhidbeyHealth, and the Washington State Hospital Association to hear how repealing the Affordable Care Act will affect the organizations and the patients they serve. “Repealing the Affordable Care Act is a life or death matter for so many Washington seniors, middle class families and individuals with disabilities,” Larsen said. “The message I am bringing back to D.C. is this: Washington’s healthcare users and providers are demanding Congressional Republicans show them a replacement plan that meets the standards of quality, coverage and cost they have come to expect thanks to the Affordable Care Act. At the ‘Town Talk’ in Mountlake Terrace, I told my constituents that there is plenty of fight to be had before repeal takes place. I am more ready than ever for that fight.” See photos of Larsen’s tour: https://www.facebook.com/RepRickLarsen. See videos of Larsen’s tour: https://www.youtube.com/CongressmanLarsen/. A new report from the Congressional Budget Office shows that after the first year of repealing the Affordable Care Act consumer premiums will increase by 20-25% and 18 million Americans will lose health insurance – with that number climbing to 32 million by 2026. Larsen launched a new online platform for Washingtonians to share their stories about how they or someone they know has benefited from the Affordable Care Act. More than 390 constituents have already shared their stories. Larsen is using stories to help beat back Republican efforts to take away healthcare from the 537,000 Washingtonians who gained coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the up to 2,969,739 Washingtonians with a preexisting condition and millions more whose critical benefits and health costs are at risk. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on preexisting conditions and potential to expand healthcare coverage for those who need it most. ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to urge his colleagues to oppose a budget resolution that would begin the process of repealing the Affordable Care Act. Larsen shared stories from two of the hundreds of constituents who have in recent weeks urged him to fight Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the budget resolution that would begin the process of repealing the Affordable Care Act – without a plan to replace it. I rise on behalf on my constituents who are imploring Congress to save the Affordable Care Act. Luanne, from Coupeville, WA, wrote to me. She said: ‘As someone with several serious pre-existing conditions I could not get insurance coverage in the past. My husband and I spent an incredible amount of money – including retirement savings and out of pocket dollars – for my care and prescriptions. There were truly times when we had to choose food over medication.’ And, without the ACA, Jennifer from Lynnwood, WA, told me her best friend: ‘will be forced to work as many jobs as she can in order to obtain money due to the costs [of her pregnancy] that will no longer be covered. She needs the Affordable Care Act as do so many Americans. Please I beg you do not get rid of it. The Republicans in Congress do not understand how much us low-income Americans need this.’ These are just two of the hundreds of Washingtonians who have contacted me over the past few weeks. Please, Mr. Speaker, do not take away these life-saving benefits from Luanne, Jennifer’s friend and the rest of my constituents. I urge my colleagues to oppose this measure. Thank you, I yield back.” Larsen is launching a seven-stop Affordable Care Act Tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District – a series of events in towns and cities across Northwest Washingtonian aimed at highlighting how Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it will affect Washingtonians. Last week, Larsen launched a new online platform for Washingtonians to share their stories about how they or someone they know has benefited from the Affordable Care Act. More than 150 constituents have already shared their stories. Larsen is using the stories to help beat back Republican efforts to take away healthcare from the 537,000 Washingtonians who gained coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the up to 2,969,739 Washingtonians with a preexisting condition and millions more whose critical benefits and health costs are at risk. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on preexisting conditions, and potential to expand healthcare coverage for those who need it most. ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—After urging from Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the Navy today announced it will extend by 30 days the ongoing public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Study of EA-18G “Growler” Airfield Operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island Complex. The Members’ request came after they heard from public entities, as well as constituents and local elected officials, who were struggling to provide feedback to the Navy within the original timeline. The Navy is analyzing the potential environmental effects of additional Growler aircraft and increased Growler operations at Ault Field and Outlying Field Coupeville and encouraging citizens to comment on the Draft Environmental Impact Study. “We urge you to extend the ongoing public comment period…given the range of scenarios under consideration, the variety of impacts analyzed, and the resulting length of the Draft Environmental Impact Study, we believe [a 30 day extension] would give the public a greater opportunity to share comments with the Navy,” wrote the Members in their January 6 letter. “Our constituents are reading the text of the Draft EIS and appendices which total over 1500 pages. Many have told us that an extension would allow them to be more thorough in their review and comment with better understanding of the scenarios and projected impacts on their communities. In addition, some public entities with scheduled meeting dates may be unable to comment given the current timeline.” The public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Study is now currently scheduled to conclude on February 24, 2017. For additional information, visit https://www.whidbeyeis.com/ ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced he is launching a seven-stop Affordable Care Act Tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District – holding a series of events to hear from constituents, hospital administrators, healthcare providers, insurers, patient advocacy organizations and members of the faith community about how Congressional Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it will affect Washingtonians. Beginning Saturday, Larsen will hold events in towns and cities across Northwest Washington including: Mountlake Terrace, Bellingham, Anacortes and Everett. Event details will be announced in the coming days. “The incoming Republican White House, Senate and House do not seem to appreciate the chaos repealing the Affordable Care Act will create for patients and providers,” Larsen said. “Hearing directly from my constituents and sharing their stories with my Republican colleagues will help make it crystal clear that Washingtonians – from insurers to middle class families – are expecting Congressional Republicans to come up with a replacement that meets the coverage, quality and cost standards millions of folks rely on thanks to the Affordable Care Act.” Last week, Larsen launched a new online platform for Washingtonians to share their stories about how they or someone they know has benefited from the Affordable Care Act. More than 120 constituents have already shared their stories. Watch Rep. Larsen’s video message to Washingtonians HERE. Larsen will use the stories to help beat back Republican efforts to take away healthcare from the 537,000 Washingtonians who gained coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the up to 2,969,739 Washingtonians with a preexisting condition and millions more whose critical benefits and health costs are at risk. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on preexisting conditions and potential to expand healthcare coverage for those who need it most. **Yen, Wei & Mounts, Thea. (2016, December). Second Year Impact of ACA on Washington State’s Health Coverage (Washington State OFM Research Brief No. 80). Retrieved from https://www.ofm.wa.gov/researchbriefs/2016/brief080.pdf *** U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. (2016, December 13). New Report Details Impact of the Affordable Care Act in Washington [Press release]. Retrieved from https://demcom.house.gov/sites/default/files/HHS%20State%20Press%20Releases%20on%20ACA.pdf ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) along with U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), are urging the Navy to extend by 30 days the ongoing public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Study of EA-18G “Growler” Airfield Operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island Complex. This request comes after the Members heard from public entities, as well as constituents and other elected officials, who are struggling to provide feedback to the Navy within the current timeline. The Navy is analyzing the potential environmental effects of additional Growler aircraft and increased Growler operations at Ault Field and Outlying Field Coupeville and encouraging citizens to comment on the Draft Environmental Impact Study. “We urge you to extend the ongoing public comment period…given the range of scenarios under consideration, the variety of impacts analyzed, and the resulting length of the Draft Environmental Impact Study, we believe [a 30 day extension] would give the public a greater opportunity to share comments with the Navy,” wrote the Members. “Our constituents are reading the text of the Draft EIS and appendices which total over 1500 pages. Many have told us that an extension would allow them to be more thorough in their review and comment with better understanding of the scenarios and projected impacts on their communities. In addition, some public entities with scheduled meeting dates may be unable to comment given the current timeline.” The public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Study is currently scheduled to conclude January 25, 2017. View the full text of the letter HERE. For additional information, visit https://www.whidbeyeis.com/ ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Facing a Republican-led White House, Senate and House seeking to dismantle the Affordable Care Act with no plan to replace it, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is urging Washingtonians to share their stories about how the Affordable Care Act has helped them or someone they know. Individuals can share their stories at www.larsen.house.gov/shareyourstory. VIDEO: Watch Rep. Larsen’s video message to Washingtonians HERE. “I have said it before and I will say it again: I am willing to work with anyone – Republican or Democrat – who is serious about lowering healthcare costs or improving quality of care,” said Larsen. “But if Republicans think they can simply strip away healthcare from millions of hardworking Americans without the faintest idea of what to replace it with – they have got another thing coming. More than ever, Republicans in Congress need to hear from individuals and families in Washington who benefit from the Affordable Care Act.” Larsen will use the stories to help beat back Republican efforts to take away healthcare from the 537,000 Washingtonians who gained coverage thanks to the Affordable Care Act, the up to 2,969,739 Washingtonians with a preexisting condition and millions more whose critical benefits and health costs are at risk. After hearing from more than 15,000 constituents, Larsen voted in support of the Affordable Care Act in 2009 – citing its improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors, bans on discrimination based on preexisting conditions, and potential to expand healthcare coverage for those who need it most. *Enroll America & Civis Analytics. (2016, December). Changing Uninsured Rates by County—From 2013 to 2016. Retrieved from https://www.enrollamerica.org/research-maps/maps/changes-in-uninsured-rates-by-county/ **Yen, Wei & Mounts, Thea. (2016, December). Second Year Impact of ACA on Washington State’s Health Coverage (Washington State OFM Research Brief No. 80). Retrieved from https://www.ofm.wa.gov/researchbriefs/2016/brief080.pdf *** U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. (2016, December 13). New Report Details Impact of the Affordable Care Act in Washington [Press release]. Retrieved from https://demcom.house.gov/sites/default/files/HHS%20State%20Press%20Releases%20on%20ACA.pdf ###
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today was presented with the Distinguished Public Service Award, the Navy’s highest civilian honor. Recipients are recognized for courageous or heroic acts, or outstanding service of benefit to the Navy or Marine Corps. Rear Admiral Craig Faller presented Larsen with the award in a ceremony in Larsen’s Washington, D.C. office. Click HERE for high-quality photos of today’s event. “This is a great honor and I really appreciate it,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I want to thank Secretary Mabus and the Navy-Marine Corps team who are out there right now, every day and into the future protecting all of us.” "This award was presented to recognize Representative Larsen's tremendous support for our Sailors and Marines and his forceful advocacy for the resources needed to maintain a strong Navy and Marine Corps,” said Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus. “We are fortunate to have such a dedicated leader in Congress." Larsen has been a consistent champion for the U.S. military, servicemembers and veterans. Larsen successfully fought to keep open the Women, Infants, and Children office on Naval Air Station Whidbey Island – which hundreds of military families rely on for food assistance. He also secured language in the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act to allow Women, Infants, and Children offices to operate on all military bases throughout the country. Additionally, Larsen has advocated for a strong Navy presence in Everett, WA. Larsen worked to bring three new destroyers to replace decommissioned frigates at Naval Station Everett, and pushed the Navy to avoid a gap between retiring the frigates and the new destroyers. In 2015, Larsen pressed the VA to change the Veterans Choice Program to better meet the needs of veterans in the Pacific Northwest. Many Whidbey veterans are now eligible for local health care instead of facing an hours-long drive across Deception Pass to Mount Vernon or a ferry to Seattle to reach a VA doctor. And in September of 2016, Larsen succeeded in helping circumvent a 1992 ban on the VA providing in vitro fertilization services for veterans – which had previously forced veterans with service-connected infertility to pay thousands of dollars out of pocket. ###
12.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced Burlington-Edison high school senior Alexandria Kissas won the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. Kissas’ app, “ListMe,” is designed to help people organize multiple lists on their smart phones. “I was sitting in class thinking ‘what would help the most people.’ As a senior, I have a lot of things to do this year and a list would be really helpful,” said Kissas. “Alexandria is a great example for young folks everywhere,” said Larsen, “Whether you want to launch the next Snapchat or create an organizational tool like the one Alexandria designed, now is a great time to pursue an education in STEM or learn how to code.” According to the Boston Consulting Group, there are as many as 25,000 unfilled science, technology, engineering and mathematics jobs in Washington state. Asked if she had any advice for other students who may be considering giving coding a try, Alexandria said: “coding can be challenging, but do it anyway. It can open doors. Your understanding of physics, science and the world around you is so much more enhanced by learning to code.” Alexandria, who is currently a TA for her AP Computer Science teacher and hopes to attend Pomona College, received a prize of $400 in Amazon Web Services credits and has been invited to a reception in Washington, D.C. The Congressional App Challenge is an annual competition that aims to help maintain American competitiveness by proactively inspiring youth to pursue crucial STEM skills. ###
12.20.2016	Washington, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) today led a bipartisan group of more than 100 Members of Congress in calling on President-elect Donald J. Trump to reverse a decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation to allow Norwegian Air International (NAI) to operate routes between the U.S. and Europe. NAI has established itself in Ireland, where labor laws permit the airline to hire its pilots and flight attendants on individual employment contracts under non-European law in order to cut costs. NAI’s overt labor forum-shopping violates the Open Skies agreement with Norway and the European Union and gives it an unfair competitive advantage in the transatlantic market. “On December 2, 2016, the Department of Transportation (DOT) made a grievously wrong decision to grant Norwegian Air International a foreign air carrier permit for U.S.-Europe air services. Given your commitment to protecting American jobs and our national security, we strongly urge you, on Day One of your presidency, to revoke or suspend the permit until Norwegian changes its business model to a model that does not rely on a flag of convenience and threaten America’s international aviation industry and our national security,” the Members said. Article 17 bis of the U.S.-EU-Iceland-Norway Open Skies Agreement states that “[t]he opportunities created by the Agreement are not intended to undermine labour standards or the labour-related rights and principles contained in the Parties’ respective laws” and further requires that these “principles . . . shall guide the Parties as they implement the Agreement.” With the decision to grant approval, DOT has decided provisions in the Open Skies Agreement that address labor are not, on their own, a sufficient basis for rejecting an otherwise-qualified applicant. In 2013, NAI applied for a foreign air carrier permit to permanently operate in the United States. DOT granted tentative approval on April 15, 2016. Behind the NAI application is a global outsourcing business model that will put U.S. airlines and their employees at a competitive disadvantage. U.S. and other European carriers rightly adhere to the high labor standards created through decades of hard work and commitment to a sustainable and socially-responsible aviation system. Earlier this year, Reps. Larsen, LoBiondo, and DeFazio urged the Department, in the strongest possible terms, to set aside the flawed tentative decision on Norwegian’s permit application and to deny the application. A full copy of the letter can be found HERE. ###
12.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that President Obama has signed the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act – authorizing an effort he spearheaded to secure $451 million to help restore Puget Sound as part of the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project. “No doubt about it – this is a big win for everyone who cares about protecting Puget Sound,” said Larsen. “The environment is not only the cornerstone of Washington state’s cultural identity but also its recreational, and agricultural economies. As this project moves from design to implementation, it will be critical that the stakeholders who rely on the state’s environment to work, play and live are heard and have a seat at the table.” “We are thrilled that members of our Washington delegation secured funding for critical Puget Sound restoration projects. We commend the team of partners who collaborated over many years on these priorities. While we need to protect and restore Puget Sound now and for future generations, we also need to maintain critical protections for the long-term survival of salmon and the people and orcas that depend on them,” said Mindy Roberts, People For Puget Sound Director at the Washington Environmental Council. “Puget Sound and its watershed are incredibly important to the people who live and work in western Washington, providing natural resources essential to our economy and way of life. These federal resources will support restoration and public protection of lands throughout the region that set us on a path to establishing a sustainably healthy watershed across the region,” said Paul Kundtz, Northwest Director at The Trust for Public Land. “So many organizations have invested their time, talent, and money in Puget Sound recovery,” said Sheida Sahandy, Executive Director of the Puget Sound Partnership. “It is very gratifying to see the federal government step up in a significant way to support these efforts. The funded PNSERP projects will go far in making Puget Sound a thriving, resilient and sustainable system.” Today’s historic investment is a milestone for the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Project – a collaboration between public, private and not-for-profit organizations dedicated to protecting and restoring Puget Sound’s shorelines, supporting salmon restoration and biodiversity in the Sound. The project will develop strategies tailored to the specific needs of the deltas, beaches, embayments and inlets that comprise Puget Sound. The legislation also includes a provision directing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Washington State Department of Archaeology and Historic Preservation to return the Kennewick Man, also known as the “Ancient One,” to local tribes in Washington state for proper reburial within 90 days. Additionally, the legislation includes language authorizing Congress to appropriate funds for toxic cleanup in the Columbia River Basin and creates a voluntary grant program to support stakeholders with cleanup efforts. Larsen has a long record of fighting to protect the environment. In May of this year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – became law. Larsen also successfully fought to designate San Juan Islands National Monument in 2013 and to protect 106,577 acres of national forest as part of the Wild Sky Wilderness in 2008. ###
12.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – A bill honoring former Washington Governor and U.S. Senator Dan Evans passed the U.S. House of Representatives after unanimously passing the Senate in July. The legislation will rename the Olympic Wilderness within Olympic National Park as the “Daniel J. Evans Wilderness.” The bill – backed by the entire Washington state congressional delegation – will now head to the president’s desk for signature into law. Dan Evans served Washington state for more than 50 years, including service as a state legislator, governor and U.S. Senator. During his time in the U.S. Senate, Evans was the lead sponsor of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 which designated over 1.5 million acres of wilderness areas in Olympic, North Cascades and Mount Rainier National Parks – including 877,000 acres within Olympic National Park as “the Olympic Wilderness.” Sen. Evans was also a cosponsor of the Washington Wilderness Act of 1984, which designated more than one million acres of national forest land as wilderness within the state. “Senator Evans led with passion and commitment to preserve Washington state’s natural resources,” said Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02). “He championed passage of the 1984 Washington Wilderness Act which protected more than 1 million acres of national forest across Washington state, and the 1988 Washington Park Wilderness Act which designated key wilderness area within the Olympic National Park. Renaming the Olympic National Park Wilderness honors Senator Evans’ legacy and lifelong fight to protect the environment.” “We are grateful to Sen. Dan Evans for his dedication to preserving our most treasured places. Naming the Olympic Wilderness in his honor this holiday season is a deserved recognition of his many years of work to protect Washington’s national parks and forests,” said Sen. Cantwell, ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. “Washington state is so lucky to have had an advocate for the great outdoors like former U.S. Senator Dan Evans,” said Sen. Murray. “It’s only right to honor his legacy in Washington state by renaming one of the places he helped protect, the Olympic National Park Wilderness, as the Daniel J. Evans Wilderness.” “The Washington delegation has a long tradition of bipartisan support for the responsible stewardship of Washington’s public lands. This tradition continues today because we know our wonderful forests, parks, mountains and waterways are what makes living in the Pacific Northwest so special. It’s only fitting that one of our beautiful wilderness areas be named after Dan Evans – a true environmentalist and champion for Washington’s outdoor spaces,” said Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01). “Throughout his life, the outdoors have been a special place for Senator Dan Evans,” said Rep. Kilmer (WA-06). “Through his leadership on conservation efforts, he has embraced the power of the outdoors to bring people together while at the same time creating economic opportunities for communities in our state. To mark his work, I’m honored to join my colleagues on this bill to rename the Olympic National Park Wilderness the Daniel J. Evans Wilderness.” "I can think of no Washingtonian more deserving of this honor,” said Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05). “Dan Evans lived and breathed the outdoors. From his days as an Eagle Scout and Hike Master to his years of public service, he spent his life protecting our wilderness. Dan carried his passion with him in every role during his expansive career, so it's fitting that his home state names one of the most impressive wilderness regions after its tireless advocate." “Today, I am proud to see the Daniel J. Evans Olympic National Park Wilderness Act approved by the Congress and sent to President Obama for his signature. Introduced by members of the Washington State Delegation, this bill renames the Olympic Wilderness the ‘Daniel J. Evans Wilderness,’ in honor of former Washington Governor and Senator Dan Evans. An avid outdoorsman and public servant, Senator Evans worked throughout his distinguished career to preserve Washington’s national parks and forests for future generations. I am pleased to see that the wilderness Senator Evans worked so tirelessly to protect will bear his name and carry on his legacy,” said Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09). “In keeping with our state’s heritage and the longstanding respect for the outdoors from our Native peoples, Dan Evans advocated for our wilderness areas with gusto. Whether he was in loafers in a conference room or in hiking boots out on the Wonderland Trail, he was committed to protecting and restoring the beautiful forests, parks, and lands that surround us. He remains an inspiration to Washingtonians and this designation will be a great reminder of his legacy,” said Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10) “Senator Evans has an enduring and exceptional record of service to Washington, and I consider myself fortunate to have served alongside him. This legislation is long overdue in recognizing the role he played in protecting Washington’s wild places. His commitment to our natural treasures transcended partisan politics, and it is only fitting that his legacy be honored,” said Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-07). “It’s fitting that we are naming the Olympic Wilderness for former Governor Dan Evans. Dan is one of those admirable individuals who has contributed his energy, leadership and passion both in and out of elected office through the decades on behalf of Washington state,” said Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03). “His efforts on behalf of our forests deserves to be commemorated by all who live, work and recreate in and around them.” “My home state of Washington and the region I represent are known for their breathtaking natural treasures,” said Rep. Reichert. “But we cannot talk about Washington’s natural treasures without thanking the man who’s been instrumental in maintaining and protecting them for future generations. From the 1984 Washington Wilderness Act to the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988, Senator Dan Evans’ initiatives have had a lasting impact on every person who had or will get the opportunity to experience Mother Nature’s gifts. I am proud my colleagues in the House joined me in recognizing his contributions by passing the Daniel J. Evans Olympic National Park Wilderness Act and sending it to the President’s desk.” ###
12.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after Boeing announced signing a $16.6 billion sales agreement with Iran Air: “This deal is good news for Washington state and will help support the thousands of good-paying jobs in my District that rely on trade and Boeing’s ability to compete in the global marketplace.” Earlier this year, Larsen voted against H.R. 5711, the No Financing for Iran Act, calling the bill “the first step of this new administration and this Republican Congress to destroy manufacturing and manufacturing jobs in this country.” ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting in favor of the Continuing Resolution, which, if agreed to by the Senate, would fund the federal government through April 28, 2017. “With this bill, Congress has achieved the bare minimum: it has kept the federal government open. I will continue to advocate for a long-term, bipartisan spending bill that addresses priorities for working families in my District and across the country.” The bill funds the government at the 2016 level with increases to several programs Rep. Larsen supported, including the Everett-built KC-46A tanker, biomedical research and state grants to address opioid abuse, and funding to address the Flint water crisis. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that an effort he spearheaded – along with other members of the Washington delegation – to authorize $451 million for the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project has been approved by the House as part of the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (formerly called the Water Resources Development Act). The bill, which is the result of ongoing negotiations between the House and the Senate, now moves to the Senate for a vote. “Puget Sound is central to the heart and soul of Northwest Washington,” said Larsen. “These resources will supercharge efforts to restore the Sound today while protecting against future environmental degradation. And with the increasing environmental strains that come with the region’s booming population – this investment is as timely as it is important.” Larsen’s history-making measure is a milestone for the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Project – a collaboration between public, private and not-for-profit organizations aimed at protecting and restoring Puget Sound’s shorelines, supporting salmon restoration and biodiversity in the Sound. The project will develop a unique set of strategies tailored to the specific needs of the deltas, beaches, embayments and inlets that comprise Puget Sound. The legislation also includes a provision directing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Washington State Department of Archaeology and Historic Preservation to return the Kennewick Man, also known as the “Ancient One,” to local tribes in Washington state for proper reburial within 90 days. Additionally, the legislation includes language authorizing Congress to appropriate funds for toxin cleanup in the Columbia River Basin and creates a voluntary grant program to support stakeholders with cleanup efforts. Larsen has a long record of fighting to protect the environment. In May of this year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – became law. Larsen also successfully fought to designate San Juan Islands National Monument in 2013 and to protect 106,577 acres of national forest as part of the Wild Sky Wilderness in 2008. ###
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today released the following statement after the President-elect’s tweet regarding Air Force One: “Replacing the 26-year-old Air Force One aircraft will support good-paying jobs throughout Northwest Washington and is important to ensuring the safety and security of future Presidents. The President-elect’s tweet does nothing to change those basic facts.” ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement after the House voted on Friday 354–34 to provide $3.4 billion for the European Reassurance Initiative and $350 million to train and equip Ukrainian security forces as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017: “NATO is not a protection racket – it is the most successful alliance in military history – and the incoming administration would do well to learn from this vote,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The resources included in this legislation reaffirm the United States’ commitment to working with international partners who share our values – including our NATO allies – a commitment I will continue to defend no matter what comes out of this next Administration.” The $3.4 billion for the European Reassurance Initiative will increase military presence in Europe, expand training exercises with NATO allies and partners, and improve the U.S.’ ability to respond in Europe. Budgeted programs include presence of an Army Armored Brigade Combat Team, Baltic Air Policing, and building partner capacity through increased military-to-military engagement. The NDAA also includes $350 million for security assistance to Ukraine – which faces increased aggression from Russia and Russia-backed separatists. This assistance includes equipment, intelligence support, and training programs, with half of the funding reserved until Ukraine undertakes defense institutional reforms. Earlier this year, Larsen forcefully defended the United States’ commitment to NATO after then-Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump questioned the United States’ existing agreements with and commitment to defending its NATO allies. A full summary of the NDAA is available here. The bill now moves to the Senate for a vote. ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02), and Peter DeFazio (OR-4) today released the following statement after the Department of Transportation announced it has awarded Norwegian Air International (NAI) an air carrier permit to operate in the United States. “This is a slap in the face to American workers,” said the Members. “Today’s decision by the Department of Transportation to award NAI a foreign air carrier permit is in direct contravention of Article 17 bis of the U.S.-EU Open Skies Agreement, and says to the world that the U.S. will reward countries that break their commitments to protecting workers.” Article 17 bis of the U.S.-EU-Iceland-Norway Open Skies Agreement states that “[t]he opportunities created by the Agreement are not intended to undermine labour standards or the labour-related rights and principles contained in the Parties’ respective laws” and further requires that these “principles . . . shall guide the Parties as they implement the Agreement.” With the decision to grant approval, DOT has decided provisions in the Open Skies Agreement that address labor are not, on their own, a sufficient basis for rejecting an otherwise-qualified applicant. In 2013, NAI applied for a foreign air carrier permit to permanently operate in the United States. DOT granted tentative approval on April 15, 2016. Behind the NAI application is a global outsourcing business model that will put U.S. airlines and their employees at a competitive disadvantage. U.S. and other European carriers rightly adhere to the high labor standards created through decades of hard work and commitment to a sustainable and socially-responsible aviation system. The point of Open Skies is to create an environment that fosters competition, not flags of convenience. Earlier this year, Reps. Larsen, LoBiondo, and DeFazio sent a letter urging the Department, in the strongest possible terms, to set aside the flawed tentative decision on Norwegian’s permit application and to deny the application. ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the U.S. House voted 354–34 to approve the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 – legislation shaped by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) to include important priorities for Northwest Washington, including Larsen’s plan to clarify that Women, Infants and Children (WIC) food assistance programs can operate on all military bases throughout the country. “No military family should have to go hungry,” said Larsen, who earlier this year won a victory with Senator Murray for military families by successfully pushing the Department of the Navy to reverse its decision to close the WIC office at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. “Under this bill, military families across the country will have the opportunity to access the same food assistance and nutrition programs that play such a critical role in my District.” In addition, Larsen successfully negotiated a key administrative fix to TRICARE for National Guard members and for the preservation of protections for LGBTQ federal contractors. The bill also authorizes $611.2 billion for national defense – $3.2 billion above levels set by sequestration. “Our military must reflect the people it defends and match the threats our country faces,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “By rejecting discrimination against LGBTQ contractors, increasing access to food assistance programs for military families and giving our servicemembers a raise and the tools they need succeed – this bill does just that.” Larsen succeeded in removing section 1094 of the House version of the bill – also known as the “Russell amendment” – which would have rolled back civil rights for LGBT employees of federal contractors. In his efforts to shape the bill during the conference process, Larsen said the provision would “directly undermine protections for LGBT members of the workforce…it could legalize discrimination and should be rejected.” Additionally, Larsen’s amendment to ensure continuous coverage for National Guard members who transition from full-time Federal Duty to State Active Duty status was included. During the response to the 2014 Oso mudslide, National Guard members who made such a transition were forced to temporarily switch to state health insurance – a process that was disruptive and inefficient for both the state and the federal government. Larsen’s amendment, modeled off of legislation from Rep. Suzan DelBene, will prevent these disruptions in coverage. Larsen also secured $5 million for continued research into low enriched uranium for naval reactors. Advanced reactors could one day eliminate the need for highly enriched uranium on Navy ships without sacrificing performance – thereby achieving both nonproliferation and financial goals by reducing the security needs associated with manufacture, transport, and storage of naval reactor fuel. Other provisions in the bill include: 2.1% increase in military pay; $76 million for a Growler maintenance hangar and Triton mission control facility at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island; $1.2 billion for counter-ISIL programs, and; $2.88 billion for 15 KC-46A tanker aircraft. A summary of the bill is available here. The bill now moves to the Senate for a vote. ###
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—After urging from Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the House has voted 392-26 to approve $1 billion to combat the nation’s opioid epidemic as part of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act. Larsen last week pressed leaders in the House and the Senate to fund the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, a bill that enacted – but did not fund – sweeping reforms Larsen called for including expanded access to lifesaving overdose reversal drugs and improved pain management and prescription practices. With today’s vote, the House has fulfilled Larsen’s request. “Washingtonians told me loud and clear about the urgent need for additional resources to take on the opioid epidemic,” said Larsen. “I heard them, and with the help of their ideas, feedback and stories today our country is taking a huge step forward to put communities in Washington state and across the country on the road to recovery.” The legislation also includes bipartisan reforms for mental health treatment and Medicare – including Larsen’s Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016 which aims to fund additional psychiatric hospital beds, give family members a greater role in working with mental health professionals, and provide law enforcement officers with training to recognize the signs of mental illness. Below is a list of funding included in the bill: $1 billion over two years to combat the opioid epidemic, with preference given to states with an incidence or prevalence of opioid use disorders that is substantially higher relative to other states; $1.4 billion for President Obama’s Precision Medicine Initiative; $1.8 billion, including $1 billion over the next three years, to support Vice President Biden's Cancer Moonshot, and; $1.5 billion for President Obama’s BRAIN initiative, which aims to fund research to treat, cure, and prevent brain disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, and traumatic brain injury. In August, Larsen conducted an expansive tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District where he held a series of events with law enforcement, health officials, advocates, community leaders, and elected officials to discuss new tools made available by the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and to hear directly from stakeholders as to what additional support is needed to address the opioid epidemic. ###
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) has been awarded the Distinguished Public Service Award, the Navy’s highest civilian honor for courageous or heroic acts, or outstanding service of benefit to the Navy or Marine Corps. “I am deeply honored and humbled to receive this award,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This award belongs to the women and men of the Navy, the Marine Corps and their families – whose unsung, everyday sacrifices make our military the finest the world has ever known. I will continue to advocate for our servicemembers and veterans, and work to ensure they have the resources they need to succeed.” "This award was presented to recognize Representative Larsen's tremendous support for our Sailors and Marines and his forceful advocacy for the resources needed to maintain a strong Navy and Marine Corps,” said Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus. “We are fortunate to have such a dedicated leader in Congress." Larsen has been a consistent champion for the U.S. military, servicemembers and veterans. Larsen successfully fought to keep open the Women, Infants, and Children office on Naval Air Station Whidbey Island – which hundreds of military families rely on for food assistance. He also secured language in the House version of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act to allow Women, Infants, and Children offices to operate on military bases. Additionally, Larsen has advocated for a strong Navy presence in Everett, WA. Larsen worked to bring three new destroyers to replace decommissioned frigates at Naval Station Everett, and pushed the Navy to avoid a gap between retiring the frigates and the new destroyers. In 2015, Larsen pressed the VA to change the Veterans Choice Program to better meet the needs of veterans in the Pacific Northwest. Whidbey veterans can now receive local health care instead of facing an hours-long drive across Deception Pass to Mount Vernon or having to take the a ferry to Seattle to reach a VA doctor. And in September of this year, Larsen succeeded in helping circumvent a 1992 ban on the VA providing in vitro fertilization services for veterans – which had previously forced veterans with service-connected infertility to pay thousands of dollars out of pocket. Larsen will be presented with the award at an official ceremony to be announced in the coming weeks. ###
11.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC–-Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) and Julia Brownley (CA-26), today led a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald urging swift adoption of in vitro fertilization (IVF) for veterans who suffer from infertility due to service-connected injuries – a new benefit made available thanks to legislation Larsen helped pass in September. “After years of fighting to provide reproductive healthcare for wounded veterans who dream of becoming parents, earlier this year we successfully passed a provision to circumvent the 1992 ban on in vitro fertilization services for veterans,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. “I will continue fighting to ensure swift implementation of the healthcare to which veterans are now entitled and for a permanent repeal of the ban.” For years Larsen has been the House of Representatives’ leading voice for expanding reproductive care for veterans. In last year’s Veterans Affairs spending bill Larsen pushed the Department to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, in April of this year the agency announced that IVF treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life – meaning that Congress has been the final barrier between affected veterans and the healthcare they need to start families. In September Larsen helped pass a provision – which was originally included in the Senate version of the bill by Senator Murray (D-WA) – in the Congressional spending bill to provide in vitro fertilization services for veterans for the first time since the 1992 ban was enacted. Because this provision was passed as part of a larger annual spending package – the prohibition will go back into effect at the end of the fiscal year unless additional action is taken. Larsen has vowed to continue his efforts to fight for a full and permanent repeal of the IVF ban. The bipartisan letter has been signed by 46 Members of Congress. The following groups have endorsed the letter: American Academy of Assisted Reproductive Technology Attorneys, American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American Society for Reproductive Medicine, AMVETS, American Urological Association, Blue Star Families, Elizabeth Dole Foundation, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Military Order of the Purple Heart, National Military Family Association, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Quality of Life Foundation, RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association, Service Women’s Action Network, The Veterans Health Council, Vietnam Veterans of America, Wounded Warrior Project. ###
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting against H.R. 5711, a bill that aims to prohibit the Department of the Treasury from authorizing U.S. financial transactions related to the export or re-export of commercial passenger aircraft to Iran. “This bill is the first step of this new administration and this Republican Congress to destroy manufacturing and manufacturing jobs in this country,” said Larsen, the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. “By prohibiting the Department of the Treasury from authorizing transactions of commercial aircraft to the Republic of Iran, H.R. 5711 writes a check to our competitors in Europe.” Earlier this year, Boeing announced a multi-billion dollar sales agreement with Iran Air which requires authorization from the Department of the Treasury. ###
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) has joined 168 members of the U.S. House of Representatives in a letter asking President-elect Donald Trump to rescind alt-right leader Steve Bannon’s appointment as White House Chief Strategist. The full list of signers and the text of the letter are below. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, Alma Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Donald Beyer (VA-8) Sanford Bishop (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) Brendan Boyle (PA-13) Robert Brady (PA-1) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Michael Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-At large) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Katherine Clark (MA-5) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Danny Davis (IL-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Ted Deutch (FL-21) Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Dwight Evans (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) John Garamendi (CA-3) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Michael Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph Kennedy (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Gwen Moore (WI-4) Seth Moulton (MA-6) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-1) Richard Nolan (MN-8) Donald Norcross (NJ-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Kathleen Rice (NY-4) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Bobby Scott (VA-3) Jose Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Timothy Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-At large) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3)
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Aviation, and Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, today raised major concerns with the security, safety, and implementation issues facing a Republican proposal to privatize the nation’s air traffic control (ATC) system. Their comments follow a Government Accountability Office (GAO) – the top Congressional watchdog – report which found that aviation experts are deeply divided and unable to answer serious questions about the impacts to national security and the financial stability of the ATC system if it were privatized. “Today, the non-partisan, independent Government Accountability Office issued a report which concluded that privatizing our nation’s air traffic controller system would be an arduous, expensive, and lengthy process to implement,” said Larsen. “The agency’s report underscores many obstacles to privatization – including the disruption of the Department of Defense’s role in securing our national airspace and the looming and unanswered question of user fees. The national airspace system is becoming more efficient thanks in large part to the progress being made on NextGen – progress that can and should continue without privatizing the world’s largest and most complex air traffic control system.” “The results of last week’s election may have given proponents of air traffic control (ATC) privatization hope that their proposal will have more success in the next Congress, but those same proponents have failed to answer the many serious concerns regarding their plan. We held only one hearing on a plan to privatize the ATC system, and less than 24 hours later, the Committee marked up the plan and passed it over bipartisan opposition. Due to controversy surrounding the legislation and a lack of votes, the bill was never considered by the House of Representatives. If privatization proponents are serious about moving any ATC proposal forward in the new Congress, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure needs to schedule hearings and hold in-depth discussions that address the major concerns raised by opponents, stakeholder groups, and the GAO. Today’s GAO report raises legitimate questions about whether the 2016 Republican proposal will guarantee safety, expedite new technology, and protect taxpayer dollars. Proponents of privatization need to answer these serious concerns. We must not rush to pass a proposal that hasn’t been properly vetted just because the political landscape has changed,” said DeFazio. Key findings of the report include that the GAO’s panel of aviation experts could not confirm that a private ATC system would be capable of protecting national security and collaborating with the military to ensure the safety of our National Airspace System. Nor could they guarantee that a private corporation would speed up technological advances and NextGen implementation. The experts confirmed that a privatized air traffic control system would be heavily and negatively impacted by an economic downturn and a decrease in air travel. A previous report from the GAO found that ATC privatization would negatively affect small and rural communities by jeopardizing their access to the aviation system. It could also mean higher costs for passengers and other users of the system including general and business aviation. A privatized ATC system would be “too big to fail,” meaning consumers or taxpayers might have to bail out the private corporation if it couldn’t pay the $10 billion-plus that it costs to operate a safe system. And finally, privatization would jeopardize safety oversight by splitting the FAA in two and leaving safety programs vulnerable to sequestration and shutdowns. In March, the Congressional Budget Office determined that the Republican plan to privatize the United States ATC system would increase the deficit by nearly $20 billion over 10 years. Since introducing the controversial proposal last February, proponents of ATC privatization have been unable to answer many key outstanding concerns: Over the past 20 years, taxpayers have invested over $50 billion in more than 66,000 ATC assets. How will taxpayers be compensated for those assets when the proposal hands them over to a private ATC organization? How will a privatized ATC system preserve access by air to small and rural communities? How will ATC privatization expedite NextGen? Some experts interviewed by the GAO said restructuring would impede or have no effect on NextGen progress. Would a non-governmental organization charged with running the air traffic control system be capable of protecting national security and assuming established air defense procedures shared between the FAA and the military as executive branch divisions? How will a private air traffic control corporation set fair user fees to pay for the system, and how would the corporation guarantee that the money will be used to operate the system? Will taxpayers be liable to bail out the corporation if it can’t pay the $10-plus billion annual cost of running a safe and efficient ATC system? How will consumers not end up paying more for airline tickets when the corporation increases user fees for air traffic services? Larsen and DeFazio have led Democratic opposition to the plan to privatize the Federal ATC system, and Larsen has consistently raised concerns about the challenges and unanswered questions involved in proposed privatization plans. ###
10.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In response to the Navy’s announcement that it will begin voluntarily testing drinking water at and around Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and the Outlying Landing Field in Coupeville for perfluoroalkyl chemicals, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement: “I share and take seriously the concerns of the families living on and around Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and the Outlying Landing Field in Coupeville. I am committed to ensuring that affected communities have access to safe and clean drinking water. The Navy briefed my staff on the situation and committed to assessing and addressing the problem by testing drinking water, providing bottled water to affected residents, connecting affected homes to municipal water systems (which are unaffected), building water infrastructure where necessary and holding a series of public meetings on the Island beginning in November. Over the coming weeks I will continue to monitor this situation closely to make sure these actions are executed in a timely manner and that the concerns of local residents are heard.” In May 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued lifetime health advisory levels for perfluorooctane sulfonate and perfluorooctanoic acid – two perfluoroalkyls the Navy has historically used in firefighting foam – at 70 parts per trillion, individually and combined. The Navy plans to do similar testing at additional installations across the country. More information about the Navy’s drinking water testing program can be found here: https://www.secnav.navy.mil/eie/pages/pfc-pfas.aspx. The Navy Region Northwest Public Affairs Office can be reached at (360) 396-1630. ###
10.29.2016	
10.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Denny Heck (WA-10) today announced that Washington is being awarded a $2.7 million U.S. Department of Labor ApprenticeshipUSA State Expansion Grant to boost apprenticeships in the state. The announcement comes after the Members threw their support behind Washington’s application in a letter to the U.S. Department of Labor last month. “The need for highly-skilled workers in Washington is significant, especially given our robust aerospace industry,” the Members wrote. “We ask that you give full and fair consideration to Washington state’s grant application and look forward to working with you on a federal level to promote apprenticeships and expand the skills of our workforce.” The state expansion grant program exists to help states develop and implement comprehensive strategies to support apprenticeship expansion to new sectors and underserved populations, as well as enhance state capacity to conduct outreach and work with employers to start new programs. Washington state’s application aims to use apprenticeships to help increase the number of people in the state who are able to find and maintain good jobs – especially people in disadvantaged populations – and help close the skill gaps that employers need, especially in manufacturing industries. ###
10.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the administration’s announcement that it has reached a settlement with China to end hidden discriminatory tax exemptions that had benefited certain types of aircraft produced in China, which is prohibited under the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. "The United States has brought 14 trade enforcement actions against China since 2009, and every time our country has gone to bat we have won," said U.S. Congressman Rick Larsen, the ranking member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. "Today's decision is a win for the tens of thousands of workers in my District whose jobs are directly tied to the aviation industry and international trade, and whose livelihoods are threatened when foreign entities artificially advantage one country over another." “While we are happy to announce this discrimination has ended, we remain deeply concerned about China’s lack of transparency on taxes affecting American products,” said Ambassador Froman. “Transparency is a core obligation in the international trading system. China should not impose discriminatory taxes or conceal them. Our proactive efforts in this case put a spotlight on this problem and prompted China to remove the secrecy that obscured this policy.” More information about the case USTR is bringing is available here. China’s policy exempted certain aircraft produced in China from a 17 percent value-added tax. But it imposed those taxes on imported aircraft, including products manufactured in the United States, impacting U.S. aviation workers. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative brought the dispute to the WTO, and China subsequently agreed to end this practice. Since 2009, when President Obama took office, the U.S. has filed 23 enforcement complaints with the WTO, more complaints than any other WTO member. The United States has won every one of these disputes decided thus far. Larsen has championed efforts to hold other countries accountable when they engage in unfair trading practices. In 2010, Larsen urged U.S. Trade Representative Kirk to hold the EU accountable for illegally subsidizing Airbus. Last year he pushed for legislation which created a Trade Agreements Enforcement Trust Fund to pay for enforcement actions against other countries that break trade rules. ###
10.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) has introduced a House resolution to honor programs in the Second District of Washington state that work to end domestic violence and to support victims of domestic violence. October is “Domestic Violence Action Month.” “On a single day in 2014, Washington domestic violence programs served 1,930 victims/survivors,” wrote Larsen. “These organizations and tribes…should be recognized for the work they do every day to help others in need.” Larsen’s resolution highlights the work of numerous organizations and tribes including: Citizens Against Domestic and Sexual Abuse in Island County, Domestic Violence Services of Snohomish County, Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Services of Whatcom County, Lummi Victims of Crime, Tulalip Tribes’ Legacy of Healing Advocacy Center and Safe House, Swinomish Tribe, Skagit Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Services, and Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault Services of the San Juan Islands. In 2013, Larsen helped pass the Violence Against Women Act of 2013, legislation that strengthened law enforcement’s ability to counteract domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. The bill also expanded protections for Native, immigrant and LGBT victims. For a full text of the resolution click HERE. ###
09.30.2016	WASHINGTON D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, met this week with the Small UAV (unmanned aerial vehicles) Coalition and the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) to discuss opportunities and challenges in the drone industry. The Small UAV Coalition is a “partnership of leading consumer and technology companies who believe that U.S. leadership in the research, development, production, and application of unmanned aerial vehicles will benefit consumers in all walks of life.” AUVSI is the “world's largest nonprofit organization devoted to advancing the unmanned systems and robotics community.” "As the drone industry continues to grow, businesses and regulators must work together to develop new rules to navigate uncharted territory,” said Larsen. “It was great meeting with the Small UAV Coalition and AUVSI to discuss how regulations can support companies that are pursuing innovations such as the use of drones for package delivery, while also ensuring high safety standards for the public, the environment and other aircraft.” Earlier this month, Larsen delivered a keynote address at an aviation symposium in Seattle about the future of the drone industry. Larsen has consistently called for a strong regulatory system to safely grow the drone industry. In 2015, Larsen praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision to create a registration process for unmanned aircraft systems and when the agency announced its final rule on small drones in June of this year, Larsen called it “an important first step in establishing rules of the road.” ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that a provision to overturn a 1992 ban on in vitro fertilization (IVF) services for veterans is on its way to the President’s desk as part of the Congressional spending bill – legislation that also includes $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus. “Veterans deserve to be able to start families – period,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee. “For more than two decades Congress has stood in the way of veterans who dreamed of becoming parents. I am proud to say that by working together with my colleague Senator Murray and alongside numerous veterans and veterans advocacy organizations, those days will soon be behind us.” The provision – which was originally included in the Senate version of the bill by Senator Murray (D-WA) – allows the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide assisted reproductive technology and adoption reimbursement to veterans through September 30, 2017, and comes after a four year effort on the part of Larsen and Murray. Previously, the VA was able to provide veterans with fertility assessments, counseling and some treatments but not IVF – the most popular and successful assisted reproductive technology available today – which forced veterans to pay thousands of dollars to address fertility issues from service-connected injuries. Thousands of servicemembers suffer battlefield injuries that make it difficult or nearly impossible to have children without medical assistance, and a single IVF treatment can cost $12,000 or more. Earlier this year, Larsen held a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol with families of wounded veterans and the Wounded Warrior Project to urge an end to the ban. In May, Larsen teamed up with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to urge the VA to work with Congress to help injured veterans access advanced fertility treatments. For years Larsen has been the House of Representatives’ leading voice for expanding reproductive care for veterans. In last year’s Veterans Affairs spending bill Larsen pushed the Department to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, in April of this year the agency announced that IVF treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life – meaning that Congress has been the final barrier between affected veterans and the healthcare they need to start families. Because this provision was passed as part of a larger annual spending package – the prohibition will go back into effect at the end of the fiscal year unless additional action is taken. Larsen has vowed to continue his efforts to fight for a full and permanent repeal of the IVF ban. The Congressional spending bill also includes a provision that provides flexibility for the Department of Justice to fund new opioid grant programs, as well as $37 million in new resources to fund those programs. In August, Larsen concluded an expansive tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District where he held a series of events with law enforcement, health officials, advocates, community leaders, and elected officials to discuss new tools made available by the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which he helped pass in July, and to hear directly from stakeholders as to what additional support is needed to address the opioid epidemic. Additionally, the legislation fulfills Larsen’s request to increase funding for the Maritime Security Program – a program through which the government provides an annual retainer payment to 60 private, U.S.-flag ships to carry critical U.S. cargo during wars and national emergencies – to $299 million for FY 2017. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that the House has approved an effort he led – along with Reps. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Denny Heck (WA-10) – to boost Puget Sound protection and restoration by authorizing $451 million for the Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project (PSNERP) as part of the Water Resources Development Act. The legislation also includes $170 million to address the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. “The Puget Sound is the largest estuary by water volume in the United States,” said Larsen. “As one of the largest habitat restoration efforts in the history of the United States, this wide-reaching project is integral to the implementation of the Puget Sound Action Agenda, the recovery and protection of several fish and mammal species listed under the Endangered Species Act, and the fulfillment of tribal treaty rights. This project will help facilitate restoration of river deltas, beaches, open coastal inlets, and barrier embayments within the region.” On September 16, 2016, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers submitted a final Chief’s Report for the project which recommended construction authorization for three projects as well as conditional authority for an additional nine projects pending further feasibility study. The House and Senate will now reconcile the two versions of the bill. Larsen has a long record of fighting to protect local estuaries. In May of this year, Larsen’s bipartisan bill to fund the National Estuary Program – which supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery – through 2021, became law. ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after voting against the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act: “As a member of Congress and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, my responsibility to advance policies that keep our country safe is one that I take seriously. After reviewing the policy carefully, it was clear to me that the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act would increase the risks to our country and to our men and women in uniform by exposing them to prosecution in foreign civil and criminal courts. I am deeply committed to supporting to the victims, first responders and their families who have suffered as a result of the 9/11 attacks and I will continue to advocate for programs such as the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which extended the compensation fund for individuals (or relatives of deceased individuals) who were injured or killed in the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and extends the World Trade Center Health Program until the year 2090.” ###
09.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) today announced that their bipartisan bill – which aims to expand paid sick leave benefits recently made available by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 to veterans hired by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) – is now headed to President Obama’s desk for signature. “I am proud to work across the aisle – but especially when it means expanding healthcare for veterans,” said Larsen, Ranking Member of the House Aviation Subcommittee and a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act will help ensure that no newly hired veteran FAA employee who has sustained an injury due to military service will have to choose between earning a paycheck and receiving healthcare – and that is great news.” “I applaud my colleagues for quickly remedying the injustice veterans working at the FAA were subjected to in terms of choosing between their jobs and their medical appointments. Common-sense solutions do exist and can be achieved when a bipartisan approach is taken. I appreciate Rep. Larsen’s continued partnership in finding solutions to issues affecting our constituents and communities,” said LoBiondo, Chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee and member of the House Armed Services Committee. The bill, which Larsen and LoBiondo introduced earlier this month, was unanimously approved by the full House last week. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 makes up to 104 hours of paid sick leave available to most newly hired veteran federal employees with service-connected conditions rated as 30 percent or more disabled for the purposes of attending medical treatment related to these conditions. However, veterans hired by the FAA were ineligible for these new benefits. Larsen and LoBiondo’s bill requires the FAA to prescribe policy and procedures that ensure disabled veterans have access to the new disabled veteran sick leave benefits that their counterparts in other agencies receive. Senators Hirono (D-HI) and Fischer (R-Neb.) sponsored identical legislation in the Senate. Between 2012 and 2016, the FAA hired between 150-350 veterans with a 30 percent or more disability rating each year. Currently, there are more than 650 veterans in Washington state, 245 veterans in New Jersey and 15,500 veterans nationally who work for the FAA. Veterans of Foreign Wars, Federal Managers Association, FAA Managers Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, American Federation of Government Employees, American Legion, Professional Aviation Safety Specialists, National Air Traffic Controllers Association and Paralyzed Veterans of America all support this legislation. ###
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor the five individuals who were shot and killed in Burlington, WA last Friday as well as their families and law enforcement officials: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the five individuals who were killed this past weekend in a mass shooting at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, Washington. Sarai Lara was a 16 year-old sophomore at Mount Vernon High School. She was a cancer survivor and her mother described her as her ‘right hand.’ Chuck Eagan was a Boeing maintenance worker from Lake Stevens. He had two daughters, and was planning on retiring next year. Shayla Martin was a 52 year-old from Mount Vernon and a makeup artist at the Macy’s where the shooting took place. Belinda Galde was a 64 year-old from my hometown of Arlington, who had served the public for more than two decades as a probation officer at the Snohomish County District Courts. Beatrice Dotson was Belinda’s mother and she was 95 years-old. Today, I rise to honor these five individuals and to express my condolences to their friends and families. I rise to honor and thank the brave law enforcement officials whose quick investigation led to the capture of the suspected shooter in less than 24 hours. And lastly I rise to offer my condolences to the community of Burlington which is undoubtedly struggling to make sense of this senseless gun violence that was brought to their doorstep. Thank you.”
09.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement regarding the shooting that took place at the Cascade Mall in Burlington, WA last night: "It is with a heavy heart that I offer my thoughts and prayers to the friends and families of the five individuals who lost their lives in this horrific shooting. I want to thank the law enforcement officials who are continuing to investigate and search for the suspect, and I urge local residents to follow safety information as it becomes available." ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Don Young (R-AK) this week introduced a House Resolution to mark the 20th anniversary of the Arctic Council and to express support for the Council’s work. The resolution cited the Arctic Council’s vital importance in promoting international cooperation on military, environmental, economic and scientific interests shared by Arctic nations. “The United States’ current chairmanship of the Arctic Council offers an opportunity to promote and implement our policy objectives,” the Members wrote. “The House of Representatives supports the Arctic Council’s work and remains committed to ensuring that the United States fulfills its responsibilities as an Arctic nation and asserts leadership on issues affecting the Arctic.” The Arctic Council – which is an intergovernmental body that promotes collaboration between the United States, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia and Sweden – was established on September 19, 1996. In 2014, Larsen and Young launched the bipartisan Congressional Arctic Working Group. Larsen and Young are two of the House’s leading voices focused on helping raise awareness about Arctic issues – including the need for the U.S. to strengthen its fleet of polar icebreakers. In recent years, Larsen and Young have called for a number of Government Accountability Office studies regarding the Arctic (found here and here). In 2015, Larsen also requested a GAO study which revealed that the U.S. is significantly under-resourced in terms of policies and strategies related to the Arctic. For text of the resolution click HERE. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Denny Heck (WA-10) today sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Labor urging full and fair consideration for Washington state’s grant application for the US Department of Labor ApprenticeshipUSA State Expansion Grants program. The state expansion grant program exists to help states develop and implement comprehensive strategies to support apprenticeship expansion to new sectors and underserved populations, as well as enhance state capacity to conduct outreach and work with employers to start new programs. “The need for highly-skilled workers in Washington is significant, especially given our robust aerospace industry,” the Members wrote. “We ask that you give full and fair consideration to Washington state’s grant application and look forward to working with you on a federal level to promote apprenticeships and expand the skills of our workforce.” Washington state’s application aims to use apprenticeships to help increase the number of people in the state who are able to find and maintain good jobs – especially people in disadvantaged populations – and help close the skill gaps that employers need, especially in manufacturing industries. Full text of the letter is HERE. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a call with U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Froman, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded a new trade enforcement action at the World Trade Organization (WTO) concerning more than $18 billion in illegal European Union subsidies to Airbus. In December 2011, the EU claimed to have removed the WTO inconsistencies, but the United States disagreed and requested a compliance panel to address the issue. In the report released today, the compliance panel confirmed that the United States was correct: the EU did not come into compliance with respect to the subsidies previously found, and it further breached WTO rules by granting more than $4 billion in new subsidized financing for the A350 XWB - causing tens of billions of dollars in adverse effects to the U.S. industry. In total, the panel found that there have been nearly $22 billion in subsidized financing from the EU and Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and Spain, and continuing lost U.S. exports worth tens of billions of dollars. “Today’s announcement confirms what the U.S. has suspected for some time: that the European Union was unfairly subsidizing Airbus at the expense of American companies and workers – including many in my District,” said Larsen, the ranking member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. “I will continue to work so that American workers get a fair shot and so that U.S. trading partners who break the rules are held accountable.” The compliance panel found that since 2006, subsidies to the Airbus A320 family of aircraft resulted in the displacement or impedance of Boeing 737s in the EU, Australia, China, and India markets, as well as lost sales of 271 737s. In the twin-aisle market, which includes Boeing’s 767, 777, and 787, the panel found that the subsidies benefitting the A330, A340, and A350 XWB caused displacement or impedance of Boeing aircraft in the EU, China, Korea, and Singapore markets, as well as lost sales of 50 Boeing aircraft. When it came to the largest aircraft – the panel found that subsidies benefitting the A380 caused displacement or impedance of Boeing 747s in the EU, Australia, China, Korea, Singapore, and UAE markets, as well as lost sales of 54 Boeing aircraft. In total, the panel found that nearly $22 billion in subsidized financing from the EU and Germany, France, the UK, and Spain caused tens of billions of dollars in lost U.S. exports. These subsidies – and the resulting loss in Boeing sales – also came to the detriment of the more than 21,000 Boeing jobs in Washington’s 2nd District. Since 2009, USTR has brought 23 enforcement actions at the WTO. The United States has won every one of these disputes decided thus far. Larsen has championed efforts to hold other countries accountable when they engage in unfair trading practices. In 2010, Larsen urged U.S. Trade Representative Kirk to hold the EU accountable for illegally subsidizing Airbus. Last year he pushed for legislation which created a Trade Agreements Enforcement Trust Fund to pay for enforcement actions against other countries that break trade rules. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today took to the House floor to advocate passage of the bipartisan FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act, legislation that aims to expand paid sick leave benefits recently made available by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 to veterans hired by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The bill, which Larsen introduced earlier this month with Rep. Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02), was unanimously reported out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee last week. Following Larsen’s floor speech today, the House unanimously approved the legislation, which now awaits action in the Senate. “Last November, after passing the House and Senate by unanimous consent, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act was signed into law. That legislation recognizes that no one who has sustained an injury due to military service should have to choose between earning a paycheck and receiving healthcare,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act will help ensure that no newly hired disabled veteran FAA employee is faced with that choice and help finish the laudable work that was started by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act.” The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 made up to 104 hours of paid sick leave available to most newly hired veteran federal employees with service-connected conditions rated as 30 percent or more disabled for the purposes of attending medical treatment related to these conditions. However, veterans hired by the FAA are ineligible for these new benefits. Larsen and LoBiondo’s bill would require the FAA to prescribe policy and procedures that ensure disabled veterans have access to the new disabled veteran sick leave benefits that their counterparts in other agencies receive. Between 2012 and 2016, the FAA hired between 150-350 veterans with a 30 percent or more disability rating each year. Currently, there are more than 650 veterans in Washington state and 15,500 veterans nationally who work for the FAA. Veterans of Foreign Wars, Federal Managers Association, FAA Managers Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, American Federation of Government Employees, American Legion, Professional Aviation Safety Specialists, National Air Traffic Controllers Association and Paralyzed Veterans of America all support this legislation. Prepared text of Larsen’s floor speech is below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5957, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Veteran Transition Improvement Act of 2016. Last November, after passing the House and Senate by unanimous consent, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act was signed into law. That legislation recognizes that no one who has sustained an injury due to military service should have to choose between earning a paycheck and receiving healthcare. Specifically, the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act provides up to 104 hours of up-front, disabled veteran leave during an employee’s first 12 months on the job. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act will apply to anyone hired on, or after November 5th of this year. However, that legislation only applies to federal civilian personnel covered under Title 5 leave provisions. Consequently, those not covered under Title 5 – including employees of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) – are not able to use these leave benefits. In my home state of Washington, there are more than 650 veterans who work at the FAA and across the country more than 15,500 veterans work for the FAA. From 2012 to 2016, the FAA hired between 150-350 veterans each year – men and women who have served our country but may be unable to get the healthcare they need. In an effort to expand these benefits to disabled veterans hired by the FAA, earlier this month Representative LoBiondo joined me in introducing this bipartisan bill. H.R. 5957 will ensure that newly hired disabled veteran FAA employees receive the same up-front disabled leave that personnel at other government agencies will receive. This legislation will help ensure that no newly hired disabled veteran FAA employee is faced with the choice between earning a paycheck and receiving healthcare, and finishes the laudable work that was started by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act. I would like to thank all of the advocacy organizations who support this legislation, including: The Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW); The American Legion; Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA); American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE); Federal Managers Association; FAA Managers Association; Professional Aviation Safety Specialists (PASS); General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA); and The National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA) I would also like to thank Representative LoBiondo for working with me on this important legislation. and I ask for your support as well. And lastly, I would like to recognize Senator Hirono who has introduced companion legislation and I look forward to continue working to move this important bill past the finish line. Last week, this bipartisan bill was unanimously reported out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and today and I ask for your support as well. With that, I yield back Mr. Speaker. ###
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) today successfully advanced bipartisan legislation to close a loophole that prevents veterans hired by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from receiving paid sick leave benefits recently made available by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015. The FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act was unanimously reported out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and now heads to the full House for consideration. “The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act recognizes that no one who has sustained an injury due to military service should have to choose between earning a paycheck and receiving healthcare,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “However, due to an unintended loophole in that legislation, employees of the Federal Aviation Administration are not able to use these new benefits. With the support of the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee behind the bipartisan FAA Veteran Transition Improvement Act, the laudable work started by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act is one step closer to becoming a reality.” “Veterans who join the FAA workforce should not be penalized for attending medical appointments for their service-related injuries. The more than 15,000 veterans currently employed at the FAA bring invaluable experience and deserve parity with their counterparts in other federal agencies. I am glad our colleagues realize the importance of moving forward with Rep. Larsen and my bipartisan fix to this loophole in existing law. We will continue to closely work to bring our bill to the House floor for a vote,” said LoBiondo, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 made up to 104 hours of paid sick leave available to most newly hired veteran federal employees with service-connected conditions rated as 30% or more disabled for the purposes of attending medical treatment related to these conditions. However, due to a loophole in the law, veterans hired by the FAA are ineligible for these new benefits. Larsen and LoBiondo’s bill would close that loophole by requiring the FAA to prescribe policy and procedures that ensure disabled veterans have access to the new disabled veteran sick leave benefits that their counterparts in other agencies receive. Between 2012 and 2016, the FAA hired between 150-350 veterans with a 30% or more disability rating each year. Currently, there are more than 650 veterans in Washington state, 245 veterans in New Jersey and 15,500 veterans nationally who work for the FAA. Veterans of Foreign Wars, Federal Managers Association, FAA Managers Association, General Aviation Manufacturers Association, American Federation of Government Employees, American Legion, Professional Aviation Safety Specialists, National Air Traffic Controllers Association and Paralyzed Veterans of America all support this legislation. ###
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Frank A. LoBiondo (NJ-02) today introduced bipartisan legislation to close a loophole that prevents veterans hired by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) from receiving paid sick leave benefits recently made available by the Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015. “Being forced to choose between earning a paycheck or receiving healthcare is a moral injustice – and all the more so if that healthcare is required due to injuries sustained during military service,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This legislation would help ensure that newly hired disabled veteran FAA employees are no longer faced with that choice.” “Veterans working at the FAA should not be penalized for attending medical appointments for their service-related injuries. Our bipartisan fix to this loophole in a well-intentioned law will ensure equal treatment of the more than 15,000 veterans employed by the FAA across the country. I appreciate Congressman Larsen’s continued leadership and partnership with me on these critical issues and urge my colleagues to support our efforts on behalf of these veterans,” said LoBiondo. Currently, there are more than 650 veterans in Washington state, 245 veterans in New Jersey and 15,500 veterans nationally who work for the FAA. The Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act of 2015 made up to 104 hours of paid sick leave available to most newly hired veteran federal employees with service-connected conditions rated as 30% or more disabled for the purposes of attending medical treatment related to these conditions. However, due to a loophole in the law, veterans hired by the FAA are ineligible for these new benefits. Larsen and LoBiondo’s bill would close that loophole by requiring the FAA to prescribe policy and procedures that ensure disabled veterans have access to the new disabled veteran sick leave benefits that their counterparts in other agencies receive. The Federal Managers Association, FAA Managers Association, American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO, American Legion and Professional Aviation Safety Specialists all support this legislation. ###
09.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that nearly $1.5 million in federal grants have been awarded to two Washington organizations to support their work to prevent homelessness among veterans. Catholic Community Services of Western Washington received $784,064 and the Opportunity Council received $698,771 through the Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Services for Veteran Families program. The program supports organizations’ work to provide housing, outreach and other support services to veterans and their families. “Too many veterans in Western Washington do not know where they will sleep from night to night,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “These resources will enable local organizations to expand their work to provide veterans and their families with critical services such as housing and employment.” “Catholic Community Services in Snohomish County served more than 90 veterans and their families in the last year through our Supportive Services for Veteran’s Families (SSVF) program,” said Will Rice, Vice President of Catholic Community Services of Washington. “The funding for this program provides essential services for homeless veterans living unsheltered or at risk for homelessness in Snohomish County. The SSVF program fills the gaps in the existing veteran’s service continuum in Snohomish County. Because of the flexible nature of this funding we are able to serve some of the most vulnerable veterans that do not qualify for the many veteran’s programs. We are very proud of the work that our SSVF team does visiting encampment and places where unsheltered veterans are living, providing rapid rehousing services, and helping our veterans access assistance so they never again have to return to living on the streets or unsheltered.” "We are committed to serving veterans and their families by working to end veteran homelessness," said Mike Parker, Director of the Whatcom Homeless Service Center at the Opportunity Council. “This SSVF grant helps us honor that commitment. We appreciate Congressman Larsen’s support as we join in local, regional and national efforts to address this important issue." Catholic Community Services serves veterans in Snohomish County, and the Opportunity Council serves veterans in Island, Skagit, Whatcom and San Juan Counties. More information about the grant awards is available here. ###
08.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is urging the Tesoro Corporation and the American Petroleum Institute to take action on safety guidelines recently issued by the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. “Ensuring the safety of workers, surrounding communities and the environment needs to be of the highest importance when operating a refinery,” wrote Larsen, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “Accordingly, I ask that you provide me with specificity on how, if at all, you are addressing the safety alert guidance...I also ask that you provide me with details on any safety improvements you have made with respect to potential High Temperature Hydrogen Attack events since the April 2, 2010, incident.” Larsen has been a leader in advocating for improved safety standards at oil refineries. Following the 2010 tragedy at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes, WA, Larsen repeatedly pressed the U.S. Chemical Safety Board for the timely release of a report investigating the explosion. The report that followed pinpointed the cause of the 2010 explosion as a High Temperature Hydrogen Attack which resulted in the rupture of a heat exchanger. Additionally, the report found that current industry practice did not meet minimum requirements to prevent future such explosions. Accordingly, in February of this year, the American Petroleum Institute – which sets standards for the oil and gas industry – updated its standard. However, in July, the U.S. Chemical Safety Board deemed this new standard to be insufficient, and in August the agency followed up with new safety recommendations. For full text of Larsen’s letters to Tesoro and the American Petroleum Institute click HERE and HERE. ###
08.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) urged the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Armed Services Committees to adopt provisions pertaining to the accessibility of military food assistance programs, increased support for education programs for military families, and protection of LGBT federal contractors – among other priorities – in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). In a letter, Larsen specifically called for language clarifying that Women, Infants and Children (WIC) food assistance programs can operate on military bases and for an increase in federal support for school districts near military bases through Impact Aid funding. The letter also expressed Larsen’s support for preserving civil rights protections for LGBT federal contractors, for a key administrative fix to ensure continuous TRICARE coverage for certain National Guard members, and for the authorization of continued research into low enriched uranium naval reactors. “I believe we must do more as a Congress to address military food insecurity. One key step would be to allow entities operating the Special Supplemental Nutrition program for WIC to use space on base,” wrote Larsen. Earlier this year, Larsen and Senator Murray won a victory for the Women, Infants, and Children office at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and for military families by successfully pushing the Department of the Navy to reverse its decision to close the office. In his letter, Larsen continued his longstanding advocacy for Impact Aid – a program that benefits school districts that have reduced tax bases due to military installations. “These schools educate large numbers of military family members,” wrote Larsen, “I request that the final bill include an increase in the authority for…Impact Aid, including the supplemental program for students with disabilities.” Additionally, Larsen called out section 1094 of the House bill which would roll back civil rights for LGBT employees of federal contractors. The provision would “directly undermine protections for LGBT members of the workforce…it could legalize discrimination and should be rejected,” wrote Larsen. On TRICARE, Larsen urged the inclusion of an amendment he successfully included in the House version of the NDAA, which would ensure continuous coverage for National Guard members who transition from full-time Federal Duty to State Active Duty status. During the response to the 2014 Oso mudslide, National Guard members who made such a transition were forced to temporarily switch to state health insurance – a process that was disruptive and inefficient for both the state and the federal government. Larsen’s amendment, modeled off of legislation from Rep. Suzan DelBene, would prevent these disruptions in coverage. Lastly, Larsen pressed for authorization of continued research into low enriched uranium for naval reactors. These advanced reactors could one day eliminate the need for highly enriched uranium on Navy ships – thereby “achieving both nonproliferation and financial goals by…reducing the security needs associated with manufacture, transport, and storage of naval reactor fuel.” Larsen is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. For full text of the letter, click HERE. ###
08.22.2016	MOUNTLAKE TERRACE, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today hosted a “bicycle town hall” with local cyclists, the Cascade Bicycle Club and other local officials from the City of Mountlake Terrace, the City of Edmonds, the City of Lake Forest Park, the City of Lynnwood, the Verdant Health Commission and Community Transit. Larsen led a bike ride from the Lynnwood Park and Ride to the Mountlake Terrace Senior Center where he then held a town hall style meeting about safe routes to and from schools and expanding the bike network in South Snohomish County. “Cycling is the primary mode of transportation for thousands of Washingtonians – which makes it important not only for our health and sense of community but also for our economy,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “I will continue to make investing in safe and reliable bike paths and trails a priority so that folks – who may be cycling to Lynnwood for work, Edmonds Community College for school or the Mountlake Terrace Senior Center for recreation – can get where they are trying to go safely and efficiently.” "U.S. Representative Rick Larsen has been a leader in growing the area's bike network and improving safety for children biking and walking to school," said Elizabeth Kiker, Executive Director of the Cascade Bicycle Club. "Bike rides and town halls like this one show a wonderful commitment to championing better biking and transit connections in South Snohomish County." Since 2005, the percentage of Washingtonians that use a bicycle to commute has increased by 50%. Larsen has been a leader in advocating for resources to maintain and improve infrastructure for cyclists and pedestrians. Last year, Larsen released a report which shined a spotlight on trends and causes of accidents involving pedestrians and bicycles. Additionally, in December of 2015 Larsen helped pass a long-term transportation bill which increased funding for bike lanes, sidewalks and trails, and requires states to take into account all transportation users – especially bicyclists and pedestrians – when building roads. ###
08.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) concluded an expansive tour of Washington’s 2nd Congressional District where he held a series of events with law enforcement, health officials, advocates, community leaders, and elected officials to discuss new tools made available by the recently passed bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act and to hear directly from stakeholders as to what additional support is needed to address the opioid epidemic. “We are witnessing a sea change when it comes to the conventional wisdom about addiction,” said Larsen. “Over these past two weeks I saw that sea change first hand, with Washingtonians in agreement that addiction is not a moral failing but rather a medical condition that can and should be addressed through treatment. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act takes steps in the right direction, but from Everett to Bellingham I heard from communities that need additional resources to match the magnitude of the problem they face – and I am ready to take the ideas, feedback and stories I heard back to the House to continue helping our law enforcement, health officials and community leaders take on this epidemic.” See highlights of Larsen’s tour at https://www.facebook.com/RepRickLarsen and https://www.youtube.com/CongressmanLarsen/ Larsen’s tour included discussions in Bellingham, Mount Vernon, Island County, and Everett that centered on how the opioid epidemic – which frequently overlaps with issues of mental health and homelessness – is straining local social service organizations and what steps communities are taking to address the crisis. Larsen also toured a local needle exchange program in Snohomish County and participated in a homeless community outreach program run by the Snohomish County Sherriff’s Office of Neighborhoods. In Washington, roughly 600 people die annually due to opioids – a figure that increased by 31 percent between 2002 and 2013. Snohomish County alone saw nearly 20 percent of Washington's heroin-related deaths between 2011 and 2013 though it represents less than 10 percent of the statewide population. Last month, Larsen helped pass the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, legislation that makes critical reforms to address the nation’s opioid epidemic. The bill includes a variety of reforms Larsen has called for including expanded access to lifesaving overdose reversal drugs and improved pain management and prescription practices. However, the bill does not fulfill President Obama’s $1.1 billion funding request which Larsen pressed for earlier this year. ###
08.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) toured the Port of Everett’s South Terminal, which will directly benefit from a $10 million U.S. Department of Transportation competitive grant announced last month to modernize the South Terminal. Earlier this year, both Representative Larsen and Senator Murray sent letters to DOT urging support for the Port of Everett’s grant application, citing the project’s importance to the local and regional economy. “This is great news for the hundreds of businesses and the tens of thousands of jobs that depend on the Port of Everett to connect local goods and services with global markets,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “As an economic pillar of our region, an investment in the Port is an investment in the long-term economic growth that will create jobs in the Pacific Northwest – and I am proud to support the Port’s modernization efforts.” "With tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of exports, the Port of Everett is a critical part of our regional economy, which is why I am proud to stand with the Port today and why I'm so glad it received this important investment," Senator Murray said. "I created the TIGER program because it's all about making our communities and our transportation systems safer, more efficient, and able to meet the demands of the 21st century economy. I will keep fighting in the other Washington to make sure the TIGER program has the resources it needs from the federal government to invest in infrastructure in Everett and around Washington state." "It was great having Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen visit us so we could show them up-close how their ongoing support and advocacy of the Port of Everett’s South Terminal Modernization efforts will benefit trade and maritime jobs in Washington State," Port of Everett CEO Les Reardanz said. "With this federal investment, we will be able to modernize our facilities to continue to support the aerospace, manufacturing and construction industries in the region." The $10 million investment will help complete the South Terminal Modernization Project at the Port and double its rail capacity, which will ensure the Port can support larger vessels and heavier cargo in order to better serve their customers and compete in the global marketplace. The Port of Everett is a strategic port that supports Washington state’s aerospace, construction, manufacturing, and energy industries, with nearly $25 billion in exports annually and supporting more than 35,000 jobs. Last year, Larsen helped pass a five-year transportation bill which secured a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding to improve Washington state’s infrastructure. ###
08.16.2016	MOUNT VERNON, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today held a roundtable discussion with North Sound Behavioral Health Organization, Evergreen Recovery Centers, and the Snohomish County and Whatcom County Departments of Health on recent changes to mental health and substance abuse programs in Washington state. “It is time we change the discussion around addiction and mental illness – which are not moral failings but rather health issues that require treatment,” Larsen said. “I am going to keep fighting in Congress until our communities have the resources they need to fight substance abuse and until we pass legislation to reform and improve how we address mental health.” In Washington, roughly 600 people die annually due to opioids – a figure that increased by 31 percent between 2002 and 2013. Last month, Larsen helped pass the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, legislation that makes critical reforms to address the nation’s opioid epidemic. The bill includes reforms Larsen has called for including expanding access to lifesaving opioid overdose reversal drugs and improving pain management and prescription practices. However, the bill does not fulfill President Obama’s $1.1 billion funding request for addressing the opioid epidemic which Larsen pressed for earlier this year. Larsen is also the co-sponsor of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016 which passed the House in July. This legislation would fund additional psychiatric hospital beds and give family members a greater role in working with mental health professionals to develop a loved one’s care plan. The bill also provides law enforcement officers the training to recognize the signs of mental illness and the tools to connect individuals with mental health services as an alternative to incarceration. ###
08.16.2016	EVERETT, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today held a roundtable discussion with Snohomish County Executive Dave Somers, Everett Mayor Ray Stephanson, Marysville Mayor Jon Nehring, law enforcement and health officials on the opioid epidemic in Snohomish County and the Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act – which was signed into law in July. “Those who suffer from addiction need our help – and as everyone here knows, that help is both urgently and widely needed,” said Larsen. “I have heard from Snohomish County parents, community leaders and law enforcement officials and it is clear that the reforms made by the Comprehensive Addiction & Recovery Act are a step in the right direction. But there is much more work to do in order to help the thousands of families suffering from the effects of addiction and I will keep fighting in Congress until our communities have the resources they need to fight this epidemic.” Click HERE for high quality photos from today’s roundtable. Although it represents less than 10 percent of the state's population, Snohomish County saw nearly 20 percent of Washington's heroin-related deaths between 2011 and 2013. Last month, Larsen helped pass the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, legislation that makes critical reforms to address the nation’s opioid epidemic. The bill includes reforms Larsen has called for including expanding access to lifesaving opioid overdose reversal drugs and improving pain management and prescription practices. However, the bill does not fulfill President Obama’s $1.1 billion funding request for addressing the opioid epidemic which Larsen pressed for earlier this year. ###
08.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today announced that the Port of Orcas has been awarded a $2,004,466 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to help improve the safety and operations at Orcas Island Airport. “Orcas Island Airport is an economic engine for both the Island and the region, and these resources will help the airport thrive,” said Larsen. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs and investing in airports like Orcas helps support good jobs and keeps our economy moving.” This grant will support the rehabilitation of Orcas Island Airport's pavement and runway, improve drainage to better handle stormwater runoff, and replace its existing Automatic Weather Observing System III to enhance safety by providing accurate, current, and site-specific weather information. ###
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced that the Port of Everett has been awarded a $10,000,000 competitive grant to help complete the South Terminal Modernization Project. The project aims to increase the berth length for cargo equipment to accommodate larger ships, strengthen the dock to support heavier cargo operations and increase rail capacity at the seaport. Larsen sent a letter to Secretary Foxx earlier this year urging the Department of Transportation to approve the Port’s grant application. “This is a big win for Snohomish County’s economy,” said Larsen. “These resources will ensure the Port of Everett can continue to serve important regional industries while remaining globally competitive in international trade.” “The Port of Everett would like to thank Representative Larsen for his support of this project as well as the U.S. Department of Transportation for investing in our region,” said Port of Everett CEO Les Reardanz. “These investments will help the Port modernize our facilities and provide an important boost to our region’s major industries.” The stronger dock will allow the Port to accommodate Boeing’s new 777X airplane which is scheduled to begin production in 2017. Three in five jobs in Snohomish County are dependent on trade and the Port of Everett supports more than 35,000 jobs in the construction, manufacturing and energy sectors. More than $25 billion in U.S. exports flow through the Port of Everett each year. Last year, Larsen helped pass a five-year transportation bill which secured a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding to improve Washington state’s infrastructure. ###
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced the launch of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge – an opportunity for students to learn key computer science skills by creating their own original applications for a local competition. The competition – which runs through November 2nd – is open to k-12 students who live in or attend school in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. Students may compete as individuals or in teams up to four. Local experts will evaluate submissions and winners will be announced in early December. “It is critical that we find more ways to encourage young folks to turn their passions into careers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) – and this competition is a great way to do just that,” said Larsen. “I am looking forward to seeing what Washington’s creative and tech-savvy students come up with.” Winners will be honored by Congressman Larsen and have their apps featured on display in the United States Capitol building. By some estimates there are nearly a quarter of a million unfilled programming jobs in the United States. The competition is an effort to maintain American competitiveness by proactively inspiring youth to pursue crucial STEM skills. Eligible students can sign up to participate at https://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/compete-2016/sign-up/. Additional questions can be directed to Jamie Darnell in Congressman Larsen’s office at Jamie.darnell@mail.house.gov or (360)-733-4500. ###
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced that the City of Everett has been awarded a $3,358,459 competitive grant to help reduce carbon emissions in city buses. The grant was made possible by the Low or No Emissions Bus Program which was authorized by the five-year transportation bill Larsen helped pass last year. The legislation secured a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding to improve Washington state’s infrastructure. “This is good news for the City of Everett,” said Larsen. “In Washington state transportation means jobs and these resources will help Snohomish County lead when it comes to an energy efficient system of public transportation while also reducing local carbon emissions.” “This grant is an investment in creating a healthier community in Everett,” said Tom Hingson, Everett Transit Director. “The funding will allow us to replace 22-year-old diesel buses with all-electric, battery-operated buses. It’s really the first step in our efforts to modernize Everett Transit’s fixed-route fleet.” The Low or No Emission Bus Program provides funding to state and local governments for the purchase or lease of zero-emission and low-emission transit buses. Funds can also be used to acquire, construct and lease support facilities. ###
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement after Republican Presidential candidate Donald Trump questioned the United States’ existing agreements with and commitment to defending its NATO allies: “For almost 70 years, the United States has been a proud partner in NATO—a partnership that is not just about mutual defense with 27 other countries and preventing another world war, but is also about protecting our values of democracy, peace, security and humanitarian assistance. After September 11, 2001, NATO supported the U.S. in the fight against terror and it is currently supporting the effort to destroy ISIL. Questioning our country’s commitment to an institution that is so critical to our own defense is reckless, dangerous and weakens our role in the world.” The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has existed to protect the freedom and security of its members since 1949 and it includes 28 independent member countries. The original treaty, which derives its authority from the United Nations Charter, has never been modified. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) proposed new rules to improve oil spill response and mitigate impacts of derailments of crude oil traveling by rail. According to PHMSA, “the proposed rule would update and clarify the comprehensive oil spill response plan requirements for certain trains and would require railroads to share information with state and tribal emergency response commissions to improve community preparedness for potential accidents.” “I have heard from many of my constituents who are concerned about the risk oil traveling by rail poses to their neighborhoods. It is a concern I take seriously and it is why I fought to increase funding for at-grade rail crossings and replace older tank cars with newer models to reduce the risk of explosion,” said Larsen, who sits on the House Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee. “By updating and expanding the response to oil spills these proposed rules are part of an all-of-the-above strategy when it comes to the safety of our communities.” Larsen has consistently fought to implement measures to protect communities near trains carrying crude oil. Last year he championed provisions in the long-term transportation bill to improve the caps on older tank cars to reduce pressure and the potential for explosion in case of an accident. Larsen also successfully secured resources to improve at-grade rail crossings where rail incidents are most likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. ###
07.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a call with U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Froman, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded a new trade enforcement action at the World Trade Organization (WTO) concerning China’s export duties on nine raw materials: antimony, cobalt, copper, graphite, lead, magnesia, talc, tantalum, and tin. These materials are key in sectors such as aerospace, automotive, electronics, and chemicals. The export duties – which range from 5-20% – provide an unfair competitive advantage to China at the expense of American workers and manufacturers. “I applaud today’s action which is important for aerospace jobs in my District and is exactly the type of action that I had in mind when we pushed for a Trade Agreements Enforcement Trust Fund last year,” said Larsen, the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. “This administration has now brought 22 cases to the WTO 13 of which are against China. The U.S. has won every one of those cases. These victories send a strong message that the U.S. will hold trading partners accountable in order to get all workers a fair shot. If countries are going to trade with the U.S. they have to do so under good faith, they have to do so in accordance with international standards and they have to do so knowing that if they do not live up to those standards that the United States is going to act on enforcement.” When China joined the WTO it agreed to eliminate export duties on these products, but it has failed to follow through on this commitment. Today’s action is the 13th trade enforcement case the Obama administration has launched against China at the WTO – more than any other WTO country over the same period. The U.S. has won every case that has been decided so far. Larsen, who Co-Chairs the U.S.-China Working Group, has championed efforts to hold other countries – including China – accountable when they engage in unfair trading practices. Last year he pushed for legislation which created a Trade Agreements Enforcement Trust Fund to pay for enforcement actions against other countries that break trade rules. He also supported a provision to enable faster action against countries engaging in unfair trading practices as well as an office dedicated to ensuring other countries play by the rules or face consequences. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after an international tribunal’s landmark decision which concluded that China’s claim over waters in the South China Sea has no legal basis. “Today’s decision should be respected as the rule of law. If China rejects the ruling I think it is going to have a very difficult time explaining to its neighbors and the international community why it will not comply with international norms. The United States will continue to support freedom of navigation operations and keeping sea lanes of commerce open in our own interests. More than ever it is critical that all countries keep talking and keep working together.” Larsen co-chairs the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today voted in favor of a bipartisan agreement to extend the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through September 30, 2017. The agreement includes important safety, security and consumer protection improvements – including a provision Larsen championed to require the U.S. Department of Transportation to update long-delayed standards for airplane lavatory access among passengers with disabilities. However, the agreement does not streamline FAA certification processes, provide long-term funding for critical aviation programs, nor provide rules to address flight attendant fatigue. The extension now heads to the Senate where it must be approved and signed into law before FAA authorization expires on July 15th. “Our aviation system – and the hundreds of thousands of jobs in Washington state that rely on it – will benefit from the funding certainty that a 14 month extension provides,” said Larsen. “But if not for the futile effort to privatize air traffic control we would have seen a major bipartisan overhaul of our national aviation system. We need to set our sights higher than a series of short-term extensions.” In 2014, the aerospace industry in Washington supported 267,200 jobs, $22.4 billion in labor income and $85.7 billion in business revenues. Larsen has consistently pushed for long-term FAA re-authorization and called for reforms to streamline the FAA certification process that will help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs by saving time, making products safer and transporting them to market more quickly. Additionally, Larsen has called for protections to provide flight attendants with minimum rest periods. The bill’s major provisions include: Safety Streamlines processes for approval and interagency cooperation to deploy unmanned aircraft during emergencies such as disaster responses and wildfires. Creates new processes to detect, identify, and mitigate unauthorized operation of unmanned aircraft around airports and critical infrastructure. Directs the FAA to establish a comprehensive and strategic framework to identify and address cybersecurity risks to the aviation system. Strengthens mental health screening for pilots, addressing a factor in the 2015 Germanwings Flight 9525 crash. Security Strengthens security for foreign airports by requiring comprehensive security assessments for all overseas airports serving the United States and considers the level of information sharing and security capabilities of foreign airports. Consumers Optimizes checkpoints by redeploying certain TSA personnel and assessing TSA’s staffing allocation model, in order to reduce passenger wait times while enhancing security Requires air carriers to provide a refund of paid baggage fees when items are lost or unreasonably delayed. Click here for a summary of the bill. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Adam Smith (WA-09), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Denny Heck (WA-10), and Derek Kilmer (WA-06) and U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) today applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) announcement that Alaska Airlines has been selected as a tentative awardee to provide service between the United States and Havana, Cuba. The flight would originate in Seattle and operate same plane service through Los Angeles to Havana. In March, the members sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx urging him to consider Alaska Airlines’ application to offer service between Havana, Cuba and the U.S. They highlighted the proposed route’s potential to benefit local and regional communities and economies, and provide international travelers convenient connection options to access Cuba. The U.S.-Cuba market has been without scheduled air services for more than 50 years. “Alaska’s existing Latin American gateway in Los Angeles, with nonstop service to nine other Latin American destinations, is uniquely positioned to provide flights between West Coast cities and Havana. Alaska’s proposed service would attract local business, leisure, and Cuban American customers while providing international travelers with convenient connection options to access one of the Caribbean’s most popular destinations,” the members wrote in the letter. The Department has tentatively decided to allocate the 20 available U.S.-Havana, Cuba daily roundtrip flights to Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines, and United Airlines. DOT expects to announce final decisions later this summer and flights would begin later in 2016. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today voted in support of the bipartisan Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, legislation that makes critical reforms to address the nation’s opioid epidemic. The bill, which passed the House in a 407-5 vote, includes a variety of reforms Larsen has called for including expanding access of lifesaving opioid reversal drugs such as naloxone as well as improving pain management and prescription practices. However, the bill does not fulfill President Obama’s $1.1 billion funding request which Larsen pressed for earlier this year. “The opioid crisis is devastating families in the Pacific Northwest and across the country and this bill is an important first step in the right direction,” said Larsen. “While authorizing reforms is progress, making a meaningful difference in the lives of those who are suffering from addiction requires a serious investment of resources from Congress. That did not happen today and it is something I will continue to fight for.” Additionally, the legislation authorizes grant programs for states to establish, implement, and improve state-based prescription drug monitoring programs and grant programs and reforms to help veterans and neonatal abstinence syndrome. Between 2011 and 2013, nearly 20 percent of all heroin-related deaths in Washington state occurred in Snohomish County, though it represents less than 10 percent of the state’s population. Full text of the bill can be found HERE. ###
06.30.2016	LYNNWOOD, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today toured WorkSource Lynnwood – a newly opened one-stop-shop for job seekers. “WorkSource Lynnwood offers programs designed to meet the employment needs of the increasingly diverse communities in the Second District,” said Larsen. “Finding a job is not always easy – and the variety of services that WorkSource offers can help folks train for and succeed in the job market.” Click HERE for a high quality photo from today’s event. WorkSource Lynnwood, which opened in April, is a comprehensive one-stop-shop offering job seekers training opportunities, placement assistance and access to employment resources. Larsen has consistently supported legislation to increase job training opportunities for both youth and adults. His Youth Access to American Jobs Act would create a pathway for students from their junior year in high school through community college and into an apprenticeship, helping students gain skills directly related to workforce needs in their area. Larsen is also supporting legislation to encourage more women and minorities to enter STEM fields. ###
06.29.2016	ARLINGTON, WA—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today met the winning team of the General Aviation Manufacturers Association’s “Build a Plane Challenge” and toured the Glasair Aviation facility. “Congratulations to the talented team from Weyauwega-Fremont High School,” said Larsen, the ranking member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation. “Whether it is competing to construct an airplane or participating in an apprenticeship it is critical – especially in aerospace hubs like the Northwest – that we find more ways to encourage young folks to turn their passions into careers in the STEM field. It was great to see that work happening in my hometown of Arlington.” Click HERE for a high quality photo from today’s event. The General Aviation Manufacturers Association and industry leaders sponsor an annual “Build a Plane” Challenge in order to promote STEM studies in high schools across the country. The winning high school team received an all-expenses paid trip to Arlington to spend two weeks at Glasair Aviation assembling a Glasair Aviation Sportsman airplane. Larsen is a leading proponent of STEM education. His Youth Access to American Jobs Act would create a pathway for students from their junior year in high school through community college and into an apprenticeship, helping students gain skills directly related to workforce needs in their area. Larsen is also supporting legislation to encourage more women and minorities to enter STEM fields. ###
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s 5-3 decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, which struck down a Texas state law which has forced more than half of the state’s women’s health providers to close: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is a bright spot in an era where women’s reproductive rights have increasingly fallen under attack at the state and local level. The Court has sent a loud and clear message that laws such as H.B.2 – which significantly limit women’s health options – in no way achieve the purported goal of protecting women.” ###
06.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today congratulated Ohnshim Kim, a high school student from Mukilteo who recently won the Second Congressional District’s Congressional Art Competition. Kim won top honors for her charcoal drawing entitled “A Walk,” which is currently on display in the U.S. Capitol Building and will remain there for one year. This year, Larsen’s office received 33 submissions for the competition from across the Second District. Three local judges scored the pieces on their creativity, the execution of the artist’s skill, and the way each piece tells a story or provokes a reaction. The judges included Stacy Murphy and Diane Stiles from the Skagit Art Association, and Sarah Arney from the Arlington Arts Council. “Congratulations to Ohnshim and to the many talented young artists who submitted artwork this year. It was great meeting Ohnshim and learning more about what inspired her work – she is clearly a talented young person with a bright future ahead of her,” Larsen said. Click HERE for a high quality photo. Hundreds of thousands of students have participated in the Congressional Art Competition since 1982. The competition is open to all high school students in grades 9-12. Students interested in participating in the Congressional Art Competition can find details on Larsen’s website. Photos of art submissions are available on Larsen’s Facebook Page. ###
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision on United States v. Texas, which left a lower court order on the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans Program in place: “I am deeply disappointed by today’s decision. Our country’s immigration system should focus resources on those who pose threats to public safety not tearing families apart. It is now clearer than ever that a lasting solution to immigration must come from Congress.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member on the House Armed Services Committee, today announced that after a four year effort to expand reproductive services for veterans a provision to overturn a ban on in vitro fertilization (IVF) services for veterans has passed the House as part of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs conference report. The provision was originally included in the Senate version of the bill by Senator Murray. The conference report will now be considered by the Senate. While Larsen did not support the overall conference report because of last-minute policy riders that underfund the Zika virus, contain anti-choice policies, and controversial funding offsets, the IVF provision is a milestone. The provision allows the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide assisted reproductive technology to veterans — and comes after a final push from Larsen to pressure Congress to act. On Tuesday, Larsen led a letter to House and Senate appropriators urging Congress to end the ban and last week he held a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol with families of wounded veterans and the Wounded Warrior Project. “This is a milestone in a long and deeply personal fight to get Congress to do the right thing,” said Larsen. “Veterans deserve to be able to start families – and today the House has finally recognized that its responsibility to support those who have sacrificed for our country includes providing them with widely-used and accepted reproductive services to help them become parents.” Since 1992, the VA has been able to provide veterans with fertility assessments, counseling and some treatments but not IVF – the most popular and successful assisted reproductive technology available today – which forced veterans to pay thousands of dollars to address fertility issues from service-connected injuries. A single IVF treatment can cost $12,000 or more. In May, Larsen teamed up with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to urge the VA to work with Congress to help injured veterans access advanced fertility treatments. Thousands of servicemembers suffer battlefield injuries that make it difficult or nearly impossible to have children without medical assistance. For years Larsen has been the House of Representatives’ leading voice for expanding reproductive care for veterans. In last year’s Veterans Affairs spending bill Larsen pushed the Department to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, in April of this year the agency announced that IVF treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life—meaning that Congress has been the final barrier between affected veterans and the healthcare they need to start families. ###
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after more than 100 U.S. Representatives and Senators held a sit-in on the House floor to demand action on gun violence prevention: “From Lynnwood to the San Juan Islands, over 160 people from my District called my office today – not to mention the thousands more who reached out on social media – to express support for the sit-in. I heard from a teacher from Marysville School District. I heard from a lawyer who experienced a workplace shooting. These folks are fed up, and so am I. Gun violence is an epidemic that has affected too many people I represent. For years legislation to prevent gun violence has been a nonstarter, but – as shown by the incredible support from folks in my District and by the leadership of civil rights legend Rep. John Lewis – I believe as a country we are experiencing a turning point. There comes a time when – no matter the odds – you have to say ‘enough is enough’ and act. That is what is happening today on the House floor.” ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Ranking Member on the House Subcommittee on Aviation, today released the following statement after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced its final rule regarding the use of small unmanned aircraft systems for commercial, scientific, public safety and other non-recreational uses: “The unmanned aircraft system industry is booming – and as a global hub for aviation research and development Washington’s second district is well-positioned to benefit from this technological revolution,” said Larsen. “But as these technologies are increasingly integrated into our everyday lives it is critical that safety remains the number one priority, and these regulations are an important first step in establishing rules of the road for these aircraft.” The FAA’s final rule includes requirements: To avoid operating unmanned aircraft over people; For non-recreational remote pilots to pass a written knowledge test and to go through the same security vetting process as traditional manned-aircraft pilots; For unmanned aircraft to stay at least 5 miles from airports and, among other reasonable restrictions, generally fly at an altitude below 400 feet, creating a safe buffer between unmanned and manned aircraft, which can generally fly no lower than 500 feet; and For remote pilots to keep unmanned aircraft within visual sight. Larsen has consistently called for a strong regulatory system to safely grow the unmanned aircraft system industry. In 2015, Larsen praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s decision to create a registration process for unmanned aircraft systems and later said the agency’s draft rulemaking would “help our country keep its place as the global leader in aviation technology.” ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement after Boeing announced that it signed a sales agreement with Iran Air: “Today’s announcement is good news for Boeing and hopefully means more jobs for Washington state. In the coming days the U.S. government will be taking a hard look at the specifics of the deal to ensure it is consistent with both U.S. interests and those of our international allies and I’ll be tracking those developments closely.” ###
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today announced that a provision he has championed to improve pipeline safety is on its way to the President’s desk as part of the PIPES Act – a bill that will reauthorize the federal pipeline safety program for four years. The amendment Larsen fought to include will renew technical assistance grants that Washington state stakeholders rely on to improve pipeline planning and development, emergency response, and information sharing. Since 2009, Washington state has received 10 grants totaling more than $430,000. Past grant recipients include the Pipeline Safety Trust, the Association of Washington Cities, Skagit County and the Utility Contractors Association of Washington. “By promoting safety in pipeline construction and maintenance the bipartisan PIPES Act ensures that we are making the safety of our communities – and the pipelines they utilize every day – a top priority,” said Larsen. The PIPES Act reauthorizes technical assistance grants that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration provides to communities. Grants can be used for: Improving emergency response capabilities; Improving safe digging programs; Developing pipeline safety information resources; Implementing local land use practices that enhance pipeline safety; Community and pipeline awareness campaigns; and Enhancing public participation in official proceedings about pipelines. Larsen has prioritized pipeline safety throughout his time in Congress. Following the tragic pipeline explosion in Bellingham that killed one adult and two children and dumped thousands of gallons of gasoline into Whatcom Creek, Larsen helped write the 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act as well as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011. Larsen has also pushed to tighten the criminal liability standards for pipeline incidents. Earlier this year, he called for criminal penalties against pipeline operators whose actions were inherently reckless, citing the Bellingham tragedy as an example. ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that his amendment to boost funding for research to reduce jet noise by $2 million has been included in the annual military spending bill. The Navy is currently researching engine seals – or “chevrons” – which could lead to quieter Growler operations by reducing the harshness of the interaction between exhaust and ambient air. At the same time, Chevrons neither impact fuel consumption nor engine performance. Supporting research into quieter engines is one aspect of Larsen’s broader, seven-point plan to address the concerns of communities surrounding Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Larsen’s amendment is a step forward on one key aspect of that plan. “I strongly support Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and its vital training operations – including carrier landing practice at Outlying Field Coupeville – which make it one of our country’s most valuable naval assets,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Initial research into noise reducing technologies has been encouraging and this amendment would send a clear message to the Navy that Congress believes this research should be made a priority.” If successful, this technology could produce quieter engines for both sailors and families living near bases where these aircraft are stationed. Last year, Larsen requested that the Congressional defense committees be briefed on the Navy’s efforts to develop noise reducing chevrons for the F414 engine, which powers the Super Hornet and Growler. Over the past two years, Larsen has held public meetings on Whidbey Island and throughout the San Juan Islands to hear directly from constituents on jet noise and other issues. Larsen was joined in offering this amendment by Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06). ###
06.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined by families of wounded veterans and advocates today held a press conference in front of the U.S. Capitol to call on Congress to support veterans who want to start families but are unable to due to a 1992 law banning the Department of Veterans Affairs from funding in vitro fertilization (IVF) services. “These brave servicemembers sacrificed for our country in the line of duty. It is unconscionable that Congress would stand in the way of their dreams of becoming parents and starting a family,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Unfortunately, because of an outdated ban on effective fertility treatments, that is often the case. It is time for Congress to lift the VA’s ban on providing IVF by passing the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015, or by repealing the ban in a spending bill.” Click HERE for a high quality photo from today’s event. Legally the Department can provide veterans with fertility assessments, counseling and some treatment but not IVF – the most popular and successful assisted reproductive technology available today – which forces veterans to pay thousands of dollars to address fertility issues from service-connected injuries. A single IVF treatment can cost $12,000 or more. In May, Larsen teamed up with House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to urge the Department to work with Congress to help injured veterans access advanced fertility treatments. Thousands of servicemembers suffer battlefield injuries that make it difficult or nearly impossible to have children without medical assistance. For years Larsen has been Congress’ leading voice for expanding reproductive care for veterans. In last year’s Veterans Affairs spending bill Larsen pushed the Department to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, in April of this year the agency announced that IVF treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life—meaning that Congress is the final barrier between affected veterans and the healthcare they need to start families. Larsen’s Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015 would expand the Department’s fertility treatment services to include IVF. ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after the White House outlined state-by-state funding levels under President Obama’s proposed FY 2017 budget to combat the opioid epidemic—including $20 million available to Washington state over two years. “Communities in Northwest Washington are working hard to find solutions to address the opioid epidemic, and these resources represent a much-needed down payment for the thousands of individuals and families who are suffering from the impacts of addiction. It is time for Congress to do its part by authorizing this funding to provide communities with more resources and tools to expand treatment options, stop overdoses and prevent future addiction.” Between 2011 and 2013, nearly 20 percent of all heroin-related deaths in Washington state occurred in Snohomish County, though it represents less than 10 percent of the population. Earlier this year Larsen led the Washington delegation in a letter to House Appropriators in support of the President’s FY 2017 plan to fight the opioid epidemic. ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, this week met with a group from Mt. Baker Planned Parenthood to discuss their efforts and his support for safe and accessible access to healthcare. “It is always great meeting with the staff of Mt. Baker Planned Parenthood who are working hard to protect people’s access to healthcare,” said Larsen. “Nearly 20 years ago, my wife and I relied on the services of Planned Parenthood to confirm the great news that we were going to have our first child. I continue to be a staunch supporter of the effort to protect federal funding for Planned Parenthood so that it can continue to offer health care options, education and high-quality services to women and men in our communities and nationwide.” Mt. Baker Planned Parenthood, founded in 1969, serves men, women , and teens of Whatcom, Skagit and San Juan counties. They provide affordable reproductive healthcare and education, including STI testing and a variety family planning services. The Mt. Baker Planned Parenthood served 12,000 people in 2014 alone. Larsen is a long-time supporter of Planned Parenthood. On Thursday, Larsen signed on to a resolution to disband the Select Investigative Panel on Planned Parenthood, which has spent more than $300,000 taxpayer dollars investigating the organization. ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—This week, members of the Washington Delegation, Reps. Rick Larsen, (WA-02), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Denny Heck (WA-10), Susan DelBene (WA-01), and Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced H.R. 5417, the bipartisan Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act, which would ensure the annual funds collected through the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) are used to support our ports and strengthen our region’s global competitiveness. “As one of the most trade-dependent states in the country, Washington is heavily reliant on the efficient movement of goods, and our ports play a critical role in that process. For too long the Harbor Maintenance Tax has placed Washington ports at a significant economic disadvantage by incentivizing shippers to deliver U.S.-bound goods through Canada and Mexico. With 40 percent of jobs in Washington tied to trade, we simply cannot afford to continue allowing this to happen. The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act would give our ports the resources and level-playing field they need to compete by ensuring the tax collected is available for infrastructure investments and by allowing donor ports to provide rebates to shippers and importers,” the members said. “The HMT threatens thousands of middle class jobs in our region and hurts Washington businesses that depend on Northwest Seaport Alliance facilities by diverting cargo from Puget Sound ports to ports in Canada,” said Port of Seattle Commission President John Creighton. “This legislation will provide us with tools to grow our cargo volumes, protect jobs and keep our gateway competitive.” This bipartisan bill will introduce a degree of equity into the HMT system that has long been lacking,” said Connie Bacon, President of the Port of Tacoma Commission. “By allowing our ports to finally receive a fair return, this proposal will help The Northwest Seaport Alliance maintain a competitive trade gateway for manufacturers and growers throughout the state.” Washington State Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell have also introduced a companion bill, S. 2729 in the U.S. Senate. Specifically, the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Reform Act: Establishes full use of the annual Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) to support the operation and maintenance of our ports and harbors. Makes permanent provisions to allow for expanded uses of the HMTF for donor ports and energy transfer ports. Makes permanent the 10 percent set-aside for small ports. ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that a provision he has championed to improve pipeline safety cleared a key legislative hurdle when it passed out of the House by a voice vote. The amendment to the Securing America's Future Energy: Protecting our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (SAFE PIPES) Act would renew technical assistance grants that Washington state stakeholders rely on to improve pipeline planning and development, emergency response, and information sharing. The legislation now heads to the Senate, which is expected to take up the bill in short order. “This week marks the 17th anniversary of the tragic explosion in Bellingham, and as we saw with that incident when it comes to pipeline safety there is no room for error,” said Larsen, a senior member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Our communities deserve a safe and reliable system of pipelines to provide the fuel that cooks their food, heats their homes and powers their cars, and this grant program represents a critical component of pipeline safety.” Larsen has prioritized pipeline safety throughout his time in Congress. Following the tragic pipeline explosion in Bellingham that killed one adult and two children and dumped thousands of gallons of gasoline into Whatcom Creek, Larsen helped write the 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act as well as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011. Larsen has also pushed to tighten the criminal liability standards for pipeline incidents. Earlier this year, he called for criminal penalties against pipeline operators whose actions were inherently reckless, citing the Bellingham tragedy as an example. The SAFE PIPES Act reauthorizes technical assistance grants that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration provides to communities. Grants can be used for: · Improving emergency response capabilities; · Improving safe digging programs; · Developing pipeline safety information resources; · Implementing local land use practices that enhance pipeline safety; · Community and pipeline awareness campaigns; and · Enhancing public participation in official proceedings about pipelines. Washington state recipients of past grants include the Pipeline Safety Trust, the Association of Washington Cities, Skagit County and the Utility Contractors Association of Washington. ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) along with his colleagues Reps. Dave Reichert (WA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Dennis Heck (WA-10), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Adam Smith (WA-09) introduced H.R. 5397, a bill to rename the Olympic Wilderness within Olympic National Park as the “Daniel J. Evans Wilderness,” in honor of former Washington Governor and Senator Dan Evans. Dan Evans served the state of Washington for more than 50 years, including service as a state legislator, Governor and United States Senator. During his time in the U.S. Senate, Evans was the lead sponsor of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 which designated over 1.5 million acres of wilderness areas in Washington, including 877,000 acres within Olympic National Park as “the Olympic Wilderness.” The Washington State Delegation released the following statement after introducing the bill: “As a conservationist and an outdoor recreationalist, Sen. Dan Evans understands the importance of protecting Washington State’s natural treasures so they can be enjoyed by future generations. Throughout his distinguished career, he worked tirelessly to preserve our state’s national parks and forests and played a critical role in the passage of the 1984 and 1988 Washington Wilderness Acts. It is only fitting that the name of the Olympic National Park wilderness recognizes the efforts of the man who fought so hard to preserve it.” Washington State Sens. Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray introduced identical companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. ###
06.08.2016	BURLINGTON, WA—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, who are having issues with a federal agency are invited to talk with his staff at mobile “office hours” in Burlington on June 9th. Larsen’s office can act as a liaison between constituents and federal agencies to help resolve concerns including: · Social Security Administration benefits · Department of Veteran’s Affairs disability claims · IRS refund issues · U.S. Immigration matters · Office of Personnel Management retirement benefits A team from Larsen’s office will be available to discuss constituents’ federal agency concerns and potential solutions. Larsen’s staff will be holding mobile office hours monthly. Constituents with questions can also call Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188. In 2015, Larsen’s office was able to assist more than 400 constituents who were facing issues with federal agencies. Thursday, June 9 11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. Burlington Public Library Rotary Community Meeting Room 820 Washington Ave. Burlington, WA 98233 ###
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, was today named “Legislator of the Year” by the Security Industries Association for his leadership in advancing legislation to encourage school safety. "I appreciate the Security Industry Association's support for school safety,” said Larsen, Co-chair of the Congressional School Safety Caucus. “The School Safety Caucus is a forum to look at the best ways for schools to approach their safety needs, and the School Safety Act of 2015 aims to boost security in our schools and communities. Congress must do more to make our schools safer, shrink the cycle of violence and empower schools to focus on what they do best: teaching our students and preparing them for their futures." Earlier this year, Larsen launched the School Safety Caucus to focus on best practices for school safety and investments to help schools meet their unique safety needs. Larsen also introduced the School Safety Act, a bill that aims to improve security measures in schools such as training for staff and students, and deterrents like lighting and locks. The legislation would also reauthorize the Secure Our Schools program to provide matching grants to local, state and tribal governments to meet schools’ individual security needs. ###
05.27.2016	New schedule will cover Aircraft carrier based practice flights only, not all Ault operations WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded Naval Air Station Whidbey Island’s announcement that it will publish flight practice schedules for Ault Field. Larsen made the recommendation to the base at the request of his constituents. NASWI currently publishes a weekly schedule of Growler Field Carrier Landing Practices (FCLPs) at OLF Coupeville, which Larsen helped initiate. Larsen listened to community members’ suggestion that the base also publish a schedule for similar flight training at Ault Field to try to give people impacted by jet noise from Ault Field this same advanced notice. Working with NASWI to publish the flight training schedule at Ault Field is part of Larsen’s long term plan to address people’s concerns about jet noise. The Ault Field schedule will cover FCLPs and other aircraft carrier based training, not all base operations, so it will not be a comprehensive notice about all jet noise. As at OLF Coupeville, weather conditions and other factors can cause changes from the published schedule. “Publishing a schedule for practice flights out of Ault Field will be a tool for communities to know when jet noise will pick up, just as the schedule for OLF Coupeville has been. Transparency about flight practice at Ault Field marks more progress on my long-term plan to address people’s concerns about jet noise out of NASWI. “I have asked the Navy to consider how Growler operations affect local communities, and I appreciate the base’s ongoing work to address these concerns. “While my support for NASWI remains steadfast, I am also committed to partnering with local officials, community members and the Navy to address the impacts of noise across the north Puget Sound region,” Larsen said. ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined his colleagues in launching the first ever Congressional Voting Rights Caucus—created to protect our nation’s democracy by ensuring that the fundamental right to vote is safeguarded for all eligible Americans. Larsen will serve as a Vice-Chair of the Caucus. The Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965 was signed into law to end decades of racial discrimination and tactics to prevent African Americans and other ethnic minorities from voting. Unfortunately in 2013, the Supreme Court crippled the effectiveness of the VRA by striking down the section of the Act requiring jurisdictions with a history of discrimination against minority voters to clear election changes with the federal government. “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 broke down barriers for millions of people in our country to more fully participate in our democracy. The Supreme Court decision two years ago cut deeply into the core of the Voting Rights Act, allowing partisan state legislatures to pass voting laws, such as voter identification laws, that are disenfranchising citizens and undermining our democracy. “We should all be supporting initiatives to protect the right to vote. That is why I introduced the America Votes Act of 2015. This bill would quell voter identification laws by allowing voters to sign a sworn written statement attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification required at their polling place. I based this bill off the model from Washington state where ballots are mailed-in. “I joined the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus because voting is a fundamental right that must not be abridged. The fact that so many people face barriers to casting their ballot is destructive to our democracy. This is the first election in my lifetime without the protection of the Voting Rights Act and I hope it is my last,” Larsen said. The goal of the Congressional Voting Rights Caucus is to educate the public on the current voter suppression tactics in place in their home states, districts, and counties, inform constituencies on their rights as voters, and to create and advance legislation that blocks current and future suppressive and discriminatory tactics that deny American citizens the sacred right to vote. The Caucus will be Co-Chaired by Representative Terri Sewell, (AL-7) and Representative Marc Veasey (TX-33). Rep. Larsen joins as Vice-Chair along with Representative G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Representative David Cicilline (RI-1), and Representative John Conyers (MI-13). ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan bill to invest in estuary restoration that Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, introduced was signed into law on Friday by President Obama. The legislation reauthorizes the National Estuary Program (NEP) through 2021, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. Larsen hailed the bill’s signing into law as a bipartisan effort to keep our environment healthy. “The President signing this important legislation will ensure local communities can continue protecting and restoring estuaries. This is a major victory for clean water and healthy habitats today and long into the future. “The Puget Sound is the second largest estuary in the country, and the Pacific Northwest depends on it for a healthy environment and a strong economy. Unique habitats where rivers meet the ocean support many species of fish, birds and other wildlife. Healthy estuaries also sustain economic activity like fishing, tourism and outdoor recreation. “I thank Representative LoBiondo for working with me to make sure this important legislation which benefits our environment and economy crossed the finish line,” Rep. Larsen said. Larsen has a long record of support for restoring local estuaries, like the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project. When finished, this project will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in Washington state. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. ###
05.20.2016	Released April 28, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Rick Larsen (D-WA), and Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA), introduced H.R. 5090, legislation that would prevent the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) from permitting a foreign air carrier to operate between European countries and the United States unless the carrier complies with basic, fair U.S. or European Union labor standards. The legislation was introduced in response to the DOT’s tentative decision to grant a permit to Norwegian Air International (NAI). NAI established itself in Ireland, where labor laws permit the airline to hire its pilots and flight attendants on individual employment contracts under non-European law in order to cut costs. NAI’s overt practice of labor forum-shopping violates our Open Skies agreement with Norway and the European Union and gives it an unfair competitive advantage in the transatlantic market. “Consumers may purchase tickets on Norwegian.com and they may board planes marked Norwegian in big bold letters, but this airline is ‘Norwegian’ in name only. The DOT record shows that Norwegian Air International is headquartered in Ireland and employs contract crews based in Thailand to circumvent Norway’s fair and strong labor standards. It’s a virtual airline set up to undercut competition by exploiting cheap labor. Our bipartisan legislation sends a strong message to DOT—we must stop this race to the bottom, and protect the open and fair transatlantic aviation market,” said DeFazio. “Norwegian Airlines has sidestepped the bedrock labor agreements that are the foundation of the US-EU Air Transport Agreement. In so doing, they have compromised the competitiveness of American air carriers. There has been long-standing opposition in Congress to permitting this to go forward. The U.S. Department of Transportation must reconsider its position,” said LoBiondo. “My colleagues and I have been clear with DOT that strong labor standards must factor into NAI’s air carrier permit decision. Today we are introducing legislation that would prohibit DOT from issuing a permit to NAI if doing so would undermine labor standards,” Larsen said. “Granting an air carrier permit to NAI would say to the world that the U.S. rewards other countries that break their commitments to protecting workers. Our agreements with other countries are only as strong as our ability and willingness to enforce them, which is why I am pushing hard for the U.S. to hold other countries accountable for their end of the deal,” said Larsen. Article 17 bis of the U.S.-EU-Iceland-Norway Open Skies Agreement states that “[t]he opportunities created by the Agreement are not intended to undermine labour standards or the labour-related rights and principles contained in the Parties’ respective laws” and further requires that these “principles . . . shall guide the Parties as they implement the Agreement.” With the decision to grant temporary approval, DOT has decided provisions in the U.S.–EU Agreement that address labor are not, on their own, a sufficient basis for rejecting an otherwise-qualified applicant. The bipartisan legislation introduced today would require the DOT to find that a permit is consistent with article 17 bis before issuing a permit, maintaining the competitive balance in the transatlantic aviation marketplace. In 2013, NAI applied for a foreign air carrier permit to permanently operate in the United States. DOT granted tentative approval on April 15, 2016. Behind the NAI application is a global outsourcing business model that will put U.S. airlines and their employees at a competitive disadvantage. U.S. and other European carriers rightly adhere to the high labor standards created through decades of hard work and commitment to a sustainable and socially-responsible aviation system. The point of Open Skies is to create an environment that fosters competition, not flags of convenience. Yesterday, DeFazio, LoBiondo, and Larsen sent a letter urging the Department, in the strongest possible terms, to set aside the flawed tentative decision on Norwegian’s permit application and to deny the application. ###
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after voting against the National Defense Authorization Act of 2017, the country’s annual defense policy bill. “Voting against the National Defense Authorization Act is a difficult decision, because I know how important it is to make sure our troops receive the equipment, training and support they need. However, this bill makes the wrong choices. It uses dangerous budget chicanery. And it permits discrimination against the LGBT community. “My colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee and I put a lot of hard work into this bill, and it includes many positive provisions like my language to allow WIC offices to operate on military bases. But I cannot support a bill that shortchanges our women and men in uniform as a ploy to tear apart the budget agreement, allows runaway spending on nuclear weapons programs and turns back the clock on vital protections for workers. “I want to see the House and Senate come together to complete a bill that does right by our troops and our national security needs,” Larsen said. Policies Larsen disagreed with include: Transferring $18 billion from the war spending account to the main defense budget. This move ensures that Americans serving in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere will run out of funding before the end of the budget year, absent further Congressional action. Allowing religious organizations that contract with any agency of the federal government to discriminate on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation. Larsen cosponsored an amendment to strip this language from the bill, but the House majority did not accept the amendment. Continuing on the path to $1 trillion in nuclear weapons spending without conducting rigorous oversight or developing a plan to pay for it. ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi in urging the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to help injured veterans get access to advanced fertility treatments. The VA recently announced that in vitro fertilization treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life, in response to legislation from Larsen. However, a ban on IVF for veterans remains in place. Larsen and Pelosi asked VA Secretary McDonald to help make the case to overturn the ban. “We are writing to request that you work with Congress as we debate providing essential services to women and men who are dealing with fertility issues as a result of combat injuries caused by explosive devices used against our forces in Iraq and Afghanistan,” Larsen and Pelosi wrote. “As Congress begins work on appropriations for Fiscal Year 2017, the time to act is now to lift the ban on IVF for veterans. We ask that you express your support to Members for overturning the ban on IVF and to make any recent findings public.” ###
05.13.2016	I am working on a long-term plan to respond to people’s concerns about jet noise out of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. While my support for NASWI remains steadfast, I am also committed to partnering with local officials, community members and the Navy to address the impacts of noise across the north Puget Sound region. The concerns I hear vary from Coupeville to Lopez Island, and the solutions I am pursuing will not satisfy everyone in all of these communities. But it is important to me to take steps to address my constituents’ concerns and the needs of the Navy to find collaborative solutions. I began working on a seven point plan in late 2014. I want to share the progress I have made on each of these ideas to help mitigate the impact of jet noise on our communities while ensuring our Navy pilots get the training they need to perform their vital missions. Making sure people understand the number of Growlers at NASWI After talking with many people on Whidbey Island toward the end of 2014, I recognized there was some confusion about the number of Growlers currently at NASWI, as well as the number the base may fly in the future. Through an op-ed in the Whidbey News-Times and communicating directly with constituents at meetings and through letters, I dispelled incorrect rumors about the number of Growlers doubling at the base and clarified accurate information. We know there are 82 Growlers flying out of NASWI. An additional 17 planes are used as backup in case an active plane is damaged. The number of Growlers to be based at NASWI in the future will be determined by the ongoing Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) that the Navy is working on. A draft EIS is expected this fall and will be open for people to provide comments. The EIS will also set the standard for the number of operations at Ault Field and Outlying Field (OLF) Coupeville. In the past, I have pushed to ensure the Navy reaches out widely to communities impacted by the base, and I will continue to do so. Pushing to reduce noise from engine testing Engine tests on the ground at Ault Field can be heard from places on North Whidbey Island and across the water in the southern portions of the San Juan Islands. While some Navy facilities have specially designed hangars to muffle noise from these activities, NASWI does not. Senator Patty Murray and I asked the Navy to fund the construction of a ‘hush house’ at Ault Field. We also pushed successfully for the Navy to include the impacts of a hush house in the EIS. Advancing technology to reduce engine noise Ongoing research may produce attachments to Growler engines, called chevrons, that could muffle jet noise without sacrificing engine performance. I included language in the 2016 defense policy bill indicating Congressional support for the research and putting in place oversight to keep the Navy working on this technology. The first flight testing took place in 2015, and the Navy found that the current chevron design is successful at quieting engines at most settings, but was less effective at higher levels of power. The Navy is using this information to work up new, more effective chevron designs. I will continue to track progress of this research. Supporting technology to reduce future training flights, maintain training standards Landing on a carrier is one of the most dangerous tasks in aviation. The Navy rightly requires a significant number of Field Carrier Landing Practices (FCLPs) before a pilot can be certified or recertified to deploy on board a carrier. Navy engineers are currently developing a software package for the Growler that could improve pilot safety and reduce the amount of training pilots need by increasing automation. Making carrier landings more automated could safely reduce the number of training flights pilots need. I included language in a draft of the 2017 defense policy bill last week to advance the Navy’s work on this software package and maintain the momentum behind using technology to improve pilot training and safety. Expanding the Navy’s noise measurements to all impacted communities The Navy conducted noise measurements on Whidbey Island as part of the EIS process. I asked the Navy to increase its outreach to other communities that are impacted by noise from the base. At my urging, the Navy held a public meeting on Lopez Island to listen to citizens’ concerns about jet noise and answer questions about potential changes to base operations. Base officials also performed informal sound tests last year in areas on Lopez Island and discovered a significant noise difference between jets flying with landing gear up versus down. The base is now directing pilots to keep their wheels up when conditions allow until they are over water when they are flying approaches that go over Lopez Island to lessen the noise level.Publicizing flight training schedules for Ault Field NASWI currently publishes a weekly schedule of Growler Field FCLPs at OLF Coupeville. Community members have suggested to me that the base also publish a schedule for FCLPs at Ault Field to try to give people impacted by jet noise from Ault Field this same advanced notice. I have shared this recommendation with base leadership and will continue asking them to pursue this proposal.Using community data to understand noise impacts in the San Juans Residents on the San Juan Islands experience jet noise, and officials from San Juan County have proactively addressed citizens’ concerns by setting up a database for people to report noise. I am working to facilitate communication between the community and the Navy to ensure data are collected in a way that is maximally useful. As the representative of the Second Congressional District, I take seriously my responsibility to address concerns, questions and ideas that I hear from my constituents. That is why I have been working on several different approaches to address the varying concerns people have about the impacts of Growlers flying out of NASWI. Some of the strategies I am pursuing will take more time, like integrating new technology into the Navy’s operations. I am also open to other ideas that people have to lessen the impacts of jet noise. NASWI is one of the Navy’s premier assets. I remain committed to ensuring the base stays strong and our pilots get the training they need. I continue to support the Growler aircraft, their crews, and the FCLPs at OLF Coupeville. We can take steps to uphold the base’s critical role in our national defense while lessening the disruptions that Growlers cause for residents. I will keep working on collaborative solutions. Larsen's piece ran in the Whidbey News-Times on May 7, 2016.
05.09.2016	EVERETT—Constituents of Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, who are having issues with a federal agency are invited to talk with his staff at mobile “office hours” in Burlington on May 12 and in Mountlake Terrace on May 26. Larsen’s office can act as a liaison between constituents and federal agencies to help resolve concerns including: Social Security Administration benefits Department of Veterans Affairs disability claims IRS refund issues U.S. Immigration matters Office of Personnel Management retirement benefits A team from Larsen’s office will be available to discuss constituents’ federal agency concerns and potential solutions. Larsen’s staff will be holding mobile office hours monthly. Constituents with questions can also call Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188. In 2015, Larsen’s office was able to assist more than 400 constituents who were facing issues with federal agencies. Burlington – Thursday, May 12 11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. Burlington Public Library Gentry Family Meeting Room 820 Washington Avenue Mountlake Terrace – Thursday, May 26 11:30 a.m. – 1 p.m. Mountlake Terrace Public Library Small Meeting Room 23300 58th Avenue W ###
05.04.2016	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting constituents to attend service academy information nights later this month. Larsen’s staff will hold two information nights on May 18 in Everett and May 19 in Burlington. Students and their families from the Second Congressional District are invited to learn more about the application process for a Congressional nomination to one of the four United States Service Academies. The application deadline is November 4. For more information, please call Larsen’s Everett office at 425-252-3188, or visit his website: https://larsen.house.gov/helping-you/military-academy-nominations. Upcoming information nights: May 18: Everett 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 2100 2711 Oakes Avene, Everett May 19: Burlington 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. American Legion Post 91 721 E. Fairhaven Avenue, Burlington ###
05.02.2016	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today cheering the agreement between Alcoa and the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) to keep the Intalco smelter in Ferndale operating. The smelter had previously been scheduled to be curtailed at the end of June. “I have been working to keep Intalco running throughout my time in Congress because I know how important this facility is for the hundreds of workers, their families and Whatcom County. The announcement today that Alcoa will keep this smelter running is great news for jobs and for the local economy. “In my recent conversations with Alcoa, I pressed for solutions to keep hundreds of workers on the job. Today’s announcement is a big win for the community, and I am grateful to all sides for making this agreement possible,” Larsen said. Larsen worked closely with negotiators for Alcoa and BPA to help secure the 10-year power agreement in 2012. Though Ferndale is no longer in his Congressional district, Larsen continues to work on this issue to keep good-paying jobs in Whatcom County. Larsen is also a member of the Congressional Aluminum Caucus. ###
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—A high school student from Mukilteo has won the Congressional Art Competition for the Second Congressional District, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Ohnshim Kim of Mukilteo won top honors for her charcoal drawing entitled “A Walk,” which will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for a year. Students from Everett, Bellingham and Lynnwood received honorable mentions. Larsen’s office received 33 submissions for the competition from across the Second District. Larsen held a reception for the student artists who entered the Congressional Art Competition at the Everett Public Library on Saturday. Three judges scored the pieces on their creativity, the execution of the artist’s skill, and the way each piece tells a story or provokes a reaction. The judges were Stacy Murphy and Diane Stiles from the Skagit Art Association, and Sarah Arney from the Arlington Arts Council. “Congratulations to the many talented young artists who submitted pieces to the Congressional Art Competition. I saw all of the pieces on display, and I was inspired by their creativity and the stories I heard about how these students made their art. These young artists used their unique perspectives and skills to create interesting and thought-provoking pieces of art,” Larsen said. Top entries in the competition include: Ohnshim Kim of Mukilteo received first place for her charcoal drawing entitled “A Walk.” Kristine White of Everett received second place for her colored pencil drawing entitled “Just Jazzy.” Elizabeth Hanks of Bellingham received third place for her painting entitled “Adele.” Megan Matson of Lynnwood received an honorable mention for her photograph entitled “Pink Pull.” Bracken Hibbard of Everett received an honorable mention for his photograph entitled “Snow Scene.” Photos of art submissions are available on Larsen’s Facebook Page. “A Walk,” by Ohnshim Kim of Mukilteo. ###
04.27.2016	In response to near closure of WIC office at NASWI, Larsen worked to include language in the defense policy bill to allow WIC offices to operate on bases when serving military families. WASHINGTON, D.C.—Nutrition services for military families with young children would be allowed to operate on military bases because of an amendment to the defense policy bill led by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. Larsen worked successfully to include language in the House version of the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act that clears the way for Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) offices to serve families on base. Larsen pushed for this legislative fix after the Navy had moved to close the WIC office at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). Larsen worked with Senator Patty Murray to push the Navy to keep the WIC office open. While this outcome is positive for NASWI, Larsen wanted to put in place a permanent and nationwide fix to ensure military families have ease of access to nutrition services. Currently there is no policy that explicitly prohibits or allows WIC offices to operate on military bases. “I want military families to be able to count on support from their communities. That is why I worked with other local leaders to keep open the WIC office on NASWI, and why I worked today on a permanent and nationwide solution so military families across the country can get the services they need quickly and easily. “As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I will continue to fight for military families. Those who sacrifice for our country should not have to worry about whether they can afford their next meal,” Larsen said. In January, Larsen toured the WIC office at NASWI, which is run by Community Action of Skagit County. In touring the WIC office, he learned more about the hundreds of families who visit the office each month and the other services families can access in the same building. ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, pushed successfully today to advance an initiative that will improve pilot safety and ease training through automation, part of his ongoing efforts to address community concerns about jet noise out of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, worked to include this language in the annual defense policy bill, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The Armed Services Committee is marking up the FY2017 bill today. “I am committed to a long-term plan to respond to those in our community who are concerned about jet noise. In partnership with local officials, community members and the Navy, I am working to find ways to mitigate the effects of the noise on communities across the north Puget Sound region. One potential solution is to use technology to increase automation in carrier landings to safely ease the amount of training pilots need. My amendment does just that, and it maintains the momentum of using technology to improve pilot safety and training. “I remain steadfast in my support for NASWI as a premier Navy asset while finding solutions to reduce the impact of noise on local communities. As part of last year’s defense policy bill, I successfully pushed for the Navy to move forward with technology to reduce engine noise, and testing is ongoing. I am also pursuing funding for an acoustic hangar to reduce noise impact on Lopez Island, and I have asked the Navy to conduct noise monitoring on the San Juans as part of an environmental impact study for the EA-18G Growler. As a result, the base made a change to flight operations to help lessen sound over sections of Lopez Island,” Larsen said. Larsen’s language expresses the support of the committee for the MAGIC CARPET software package, which is in development, and requires the Navy to report on its progress to advance the software. The committee hearing about the NDAA will continue throughout the day and is available to watch here. ###
04.27.2016	The growing volume of hateful speech and deplorable treatment of Muslims in our country is deeply disturbing. This country was founded on the principle that people can practice whatever religion they choose. We are stronger as a nation precisely because our Constitution guarantees religious liberty. I am sad and angry to hear that plans for a new mosque in Mukilteo have been met with resistance and fear. The 2nd District has a long history of appreciating diversity, showing kindness toward those who need a hand and maintaining strong, welcoming communities. Communities in Northwest Washington know better than to let fearful prejudice influence how we treat our neighbors. Telling people their place of worship is not welcome is wrong, and it defies every value of freedom and tolerance that make our country exceptional. I understand there are efforts under way in the community to begin to repair the damage, and that is a good start. Now we have to go above and beyond in welcoming our neighbors to heal and rebuild trust. Rather than letting hateful and discriminatory rhetoric define how we think about Islam, I encourage people to get to know their Muslim neighbors. Our similarities are greater than our differences; we all want quality education for our kids, good-paying jobs and the chance to contribute to our communities. If you have questions, I challenge you to learn and connect. People who are supporting the new Islamic Center of Mukilteo have invited community members to attend an event to learn more and to ask questions. Mosques are centers of worship, fellowship and service. Adding another gathering space where people celebrate their faith together can only strengthen the fabric of our community. Diversity in our communities fosters richer perspectives, more innovation and collaboration. Isolation fragments us and spreads toxic fear and prejudice. That is why I am working to break down barriers and build up inclusive communities. I want Northwest Washington to be a welcoming place for immigrants, including refugees from war-torn parts of the world. We can make the choice today to defend the foundation of religious freedom and tolerance that defines our country as a place of hope and opportunity. I know that many people in our area are happy to welcome the new mosque. It is this kind of community spirit and engagement that I see in Northwest Washington that gives me hope that bigotry will lose, and that we will stand together in support of diversity and inclusion. Let us stand together. U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Washington, represents the 2nd Congressional District. This guest column appeared in the April 23, 2016 edition of the Everett Herald.
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Members of the Washington state Congressional delegation today called for funding to address the heroin and prescription drug addiction epidemic that is affecting communities in the Pacific Northwest and nationwide. Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Adam Smith, WA-09, Denny Heck, WA-10, and Jim McDermott, WA-07, wrote to House Appropriators in support of the President’s FY 2017 plan to fight the opioid epidemic. “Overdoses and deaths related to heroin and prescription painkillers have increased sharply over the past few years, particularly in Washington state,” the members wrote. “Substance abuse has been stigmatized as a moral failing for far too long. We are poised and ready to work with you in order to figure out a solution to this national epidemic.” Full text of the letter follows and is available here. Dear Chairman Cole, Chairman Culberson, Ranking Member DeLauro, and Acting Ranking Member Honda: We write to express our general support for funding for the President’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 plan to combat the opioid epidemic. We think that helping people who are battling prescription drug abuse and heroin abuse should be a bipartisan priority. Overdoses and deaths related to heroin and prescription painkillers have increased sharply over the past few years, particularly in Washington state. In fact, according to the U.S. Department of Justice Drug Enforcement Administration the number of overdose-related deaths is greater than of car accidents and firearms deaths combined. About 600 people die each year in Washington due to an opioid overdose. Many users begin by abusing prescription drugs such as hydrocodone and oxycodone, and then switch to heroin because it is cheaper and easier to access. As a result, 914,000 Americans aged 12 or older used heroin in 2014. According to the Washington State Department of Health the number of deaths from heroin reached 293 people in 2014, about twice as many as in 2008. Bold action must be taken to provide swift and immediate treatment to manage overdose of opioids. Substance abuse has been stigmatized as a moral failing for far too long. We are poised and ready to work with you in order to figure out a solution to this national epidemic. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress ###
04.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan bill to invest in estuary restoration that Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, introduced has passed the House, getting the bill one step closer to President Obama’s desk for his signature. The legislation reauthorizes the National Estuary Program (NEP) through 2021, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. Larsen and LoBiondo hailed the bill’s passage as a bipartisan success for a healthy environment. “Passing this bipartisan bill to ensure local communities can continue protecting and restoring estuaries is a major victory for clean water and healthy habitats today and long into the future,” Larsen said. “The Puget Sound is the second largest estuary in the country, and the Pacific Northwest depends on it for a healthy environment and a strong economy. Unique habitats where rivers meet the ocean support many species of fish, birds and other wildlife. Healthy estuaries also sustain economic activity like fishing, tourism and outdoor recreation. I thank Representative LoBiondo for working with me to make progress for our environment and our economy.” “Too often there is only focus on those issues that divide us rather than unite us. Today Congress came together to promote sensible, cost-effective programs that protect unique ecosystems in South Jersey and across the country. Communities in my district have long recognized the economic and environmental importance in protecting cherished local resources in the Delaware Estuary and Barnegat Bay Estuary. Working closely with local residents involved in preserving both estuaries, we have had continued success in raising public awareness and responsibly caring for our natural treasures to keep our waters clean for future generations,” said LoBiondo. “I am once again proud to partner with Representative Larsen on bipartisan solutions to the issues our nation faces.” Established in 1987, the NEP’s goal is to improve the quality of estuaries by developing plans for attaining or maintaining water quality. This includes protection of public water supplies and the protection of indigenous populations of shellfish, fish, and wildlife. Funding from the NEP, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, helps build the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. Larsen has long supported estuary restoration in the Pacific Northwest. For example, the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project is one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in Washington state. Larsen helped secure funding for this project. Passage of this bill to restore estuaries is the most recent of Larsen’s efforts to protect Washington state’s environment. Larsen led legislation to create the Wild Sky Wilderness and designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as Wild and Scenic. He also successfully pushed the administration to create the San Juan Islands National Monument. ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, strongly opposed the U.S. Department of Transportation’s decision to tentatively grant a foreign air carrier permit through a show cause order to Norwegian Air International (NAI). Larsen raised concerns that the carrier will be able to avoid certain protections for workers. In Article 17 bis of the U.S.-E.U. Bilateral Agreement, air carriers are prohibited from undermining labor protections and tax laws. While NAI will maintain a presence in Norway, the company has received an air carrier certificate from Ireland and is hiring crews through a Singapore company, which allows NAI to avoid Norwegian labor and social laws. Larsen urged DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx to give serious considerations to NAI’s potential labor violations in a letter in January 2014. “I am deeply troubled by DOT’s recent decision to tentatively grant a foreign carrier permit for NAI. In my view, approving this permit would violate our agreement with the EU to ensure that airlines doing business in the U.S. have strong labor standards. “As the U.S. considers other international agreements, I want to be clear that our commitments with other countries are only as strong as our ability and willingness to enforce them. Without enforcement, our agreements are only pieces of paper. I will formally contact DOT about this issue and will work closely with labor groups, industry and my colleagues who are just as perplexed and disappointed by this decision,” Larsen said. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) took an important step toward helping veterans who sustained injuries during their military service get access to advanced fertility treatments, as a result of urging from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. In response to legislation from Larsen, the VA announced that in vitro fertilization treatment is consistent with its goal to support veterans and improve their quality of life. The Department of Defense already covers in vitro fertilization for active duty service members and retirees, but the VA is legally prohibited from providing similar treatments for veterans. In the VA spending bill last year, Larsen pushed the VA to analyze the prevalence of infertility among veterans returning home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Today’s announcement is in response to Larsen’s language. Larsen also introduced a bill, the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015, to give veterans with service-connected disabilities access to in vitro fertilization and adoption assistance. “The experts agree that veterans who finished their service to our country unable to conceive children because of injuries should get the care and support they need to start a family. The VA’s announcement today is a confirmation for veterans with service-connected disabilities that their sacrifices will be honored. Congress should act quickly to follow the VA’s lead and lift the ban on providing IVF for veterans so they can achieve their dreams of starting families,” Larsen said. In its report released today, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) found that more than 39,000 veterans would be eligible for IVF if the ban were lifted. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his efforts to improve pipeline safety today by championing safety grants for local communities as part of a larger pipeline safety bill. Larsen voted for and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee passed the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety (PIPES) Act of 2016. Among other provisions, the bill reauthorizes technical assistance grants that Washington state organizations have used over the last several years to improve pipeline planning and development, emergency response, and information sharing. Larsen has prioritized pipeline safety throughout his time in Congress, following the tragic pipeline explosion in Bellingham that killed three young people and caused severe damage to the environment and surrounding community. Larsen helped write the 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act and its 2006 revisions, as well as the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty and Job Creation Act of 2011. “We depend on 2.6 million miles of pipelines in our country each day to cook our food, heat our homes and drive to work. That is why safety must come first when we build new pipelines and maintain existing ones. “I have worked for years to raise the bar on pipeline safety after the tragic 1999 explosion in Bellingham, and the PIPES Act continues the momentum of progress. The safety grants I pushed for have made a big difference in Washington state and will continue to protect our communities going forward. Keeping our communities safe requires vigilance, and I remain committed to pushing pipeline safety forward,” Larsen said. Though the amendment was not adopted, Larsen also pushed to tighten the criminal liability standards for pipeline incidents. At today’s committee markup of the bill, Larsen called for criminal penalties against pipeline operators whose actions were inherently reckless, citing the Bellingham tragedy as an example. “I want to hold operators accountable for reckless actions that put our communities in danger. I am disappointed the committee did not take this opportunity to put in place criminal penalties for reckless operator behavior,” Larsen said. The PIPES Act reauthorizes technical assistance grants that the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration provides to communities. Grants can be used for: Improving emergency response capabilities; Improving safe digging programs; Developing pipeline safety information resources; Implementing local land use practices that enhance pipeline safety; Community and pipeline awareness campaigns; and Enhancing public participation in official proceedings about pipelines. Washington state recipients of past grants include the Pipeline Safety Trust, the Association of Washington Cities, Skagit County and the Utility Contractors Association of Washington. ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the administration’s announcement that it has reached a settlement with China to end an export subsidy program, which is prohibited under World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) brought the dispute to the WTO, and China subsequently agreed to end its “Demonstration Bases-Common Services Platform” Program, which provides export subsidies across seven different sectors and puts U.S. workers at a disadvantage. “Today’s announcement that China will end its unfair export subsidies program sends a strong and important message that the U.S. will hold our trading partners accountable and enforce the trade agreements we have in place. If other countries want to trade with us, they must play by the rules or face the consequences. “I am pleased USTR followed through on this case and is pushing to make sure our workers get a fair shot. Leveling the playing field is exactly why we have the WTO and rules of the road for international trade,” Larsen said. More information about the case USTR is bringing is available here. Since 2009, when President Obama took office, the U.S. has filed 20 enforcement complaints with the WTO, more complaints than any other WTO member. ###
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced two federal grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for local airports in Skagit County. The Skagit Regional Airport will receive $73,675 and the Anacortes Airport will receive $298,675. Both grants will fund safety improvements. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. The Skagit Regional and Anacortes airports are central to the region’s economy, helping move people and products safely and efficiently,” Larsen said. “As the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am fighting for robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like these that contribute to a strong economic foundation. Smart infrastructure investments create jobs and improve safety for pilots, passengers and nearby communities.” “We are appreciative of the support and leadership that Congressman Larsen has shown to the Port of Skagit and the surrounding region,” said Patsy Martin, Executive Director for the Port of Skagit. “He truly believes in supporting infrastructure like the Skagit Regional Airport that serves as the basis for many businesses and good jobs.” “The Anacortes Airport is a vital link for commerce in Skagit and San Juan Counties and the surrounding area. This FAA grant will help make important safety upgrades to the airport so it can continue to serve as an economic driver for the region. We appreciate Congressman Larsen’s continued support for local aviation infrastructure,” said Dan Worra, Port of Anacortes, Executive Director. ###
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting constituents having issues with a federal agency to talk with his staff at mobile “office hours” in Burlington on April 14 and in Lynnwood on April 28. Larsen’s office can act as a liaison between constituents and federal agencies to help resolve concerns including: Social Security Administration benefits Department of Veteran’s Affairs disability claims IRS refund issues U.S. Immigration matters Office of Personnel Management retirement benefits A team from Larsen’s office will be available to discuss constituents’ federal agency concerns and potential solutions. Larsen’s staff will be holding mobile office hours monthly. Constituents with questions can also call Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188. In 2015, Larsen’s office was able to assist more than 400 constituents who were facing issues with federal agencies. Burlington – Thursday, April 14 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Burlington Public Library Rotary Community Meeting Room 820 Washington Ave. Lynnwood – Thursday, April 28 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Lynnwood Public Library Large meeting room 19200 44th Avenue W ###
04.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about the announcement from Boeing that it will cut 4,000 jobs from its commercial division in the next few months. “I share workers’ deep disappointment and frustration at Boeing’s latest plans to cut thousands of jobs in just the next few months. The Puget Sound is home to the best aerospace workforce in the world, and Boeing should not take this fact for granted. “Cutting 4,000-plus jobs sends mixed messages about Boeing’s plans for the future in Washington state, and it sends workers and their families on a roller coaster ride of uncertainty. “Workers and many others in our state have taken decisive action to ensure a strong future for Boeing and aerospace manufacturing in our region. To see Boeing respond to Washington state’s clear commitment with thousands of job cuts is deeply troubling. Boeing should offer assurances to workers and taxpayers about its intentions for Washington state moving forward, especially as these latest cuts seem to hold harmless its commercial operations in South Carolina,” Larsen said. ###
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today led the call for a minimum of $65 million to support the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, a critical source of investment for salmon habitat restoration in the Pacific Northwest. In a letter to House appropriators, Larsen and 11 other members from the West Coast requested continued funding to support recovery of Pacific salmon, a linchpin for the Northwest’s economy and environment. Larsen has successfully led similar requests the previous three years. Past support for the program has resulted in “impressive accomplishments,” the members wrote in their letter. “As of last year, PCSRF grants have funded 11,500 projects to restore more than 1,031,000 acres of essential fish habitat and improved more than 10,000 miles of streams for fish passage. Recent analyses also suggest that on average 17 new jobs and $2.3 million in additional economic activity result for each $1 million investment of PCSRF and state matching funds,” the members wrote. “The restoration and protection of our fisheries resources are vitally important to our economies, our states, and to the nation.” Full text of the letter follows. A link to the letter is available here. March 23, 2016 Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Honda: We ask you to maintain funding for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund (PCSRF) by including a minimum of $65 million in the Fiscal Year 2017 Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee Appropriations bill. Your past support for this program, including the $65 million that was included in last year’s Omnibus Appropriations bill, has resulted in impressive accomplishments in local and state salmon recovery efforts that are essential to the ecosystem of the Pacific Coast. A true partnership between the federal government, states, localities and private citizens helps catalyze thousands of restoration and conservation projects in our region. Under PCSRF, the National Marine Fisheries Service provides competitive funding to the states of Washington, California, Oregon, Alaska, Idaho, and Nevada, and tribes of the Pacific Coast region to implement habitat restoration and recovery projects that contribute to the sustainability of the species. Over the evolution of this program, NOAA Fisheries Service, states, tribes and local project managers have developed an integrated approach to track progress, measure performance, and ensure accountability. As of last year, PCSRF grants have funded 11,500 projects to restore more than 1,031,000 acres of essential fish habitat and improved more than 10,000 miles of streams for fish passage. Recent analyses also suggest that on average 17 new jobs and $2.3 million in additional economic activity result for each $1 million investment of PCSRF and state matching funds. Continued commitment, collaboration and resources are required to achieve the overarching goal of full recovery and sustainability. The restoration and protection of our fisheries resources are vitally important to our economies, our states, and to the nation. This is a challenging endeavor and we appreciate your continued support for PCSRF. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Don Young Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Jackie Speier Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Jerry McNerney Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Sam Farr Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress ###
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Estuaries are drivers of a healthy environment and a strong economy, which is why Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is leading a bipartisan effort to invest in estuary restoration. Larsen and Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, along with 52 other members, sent a letter this week to House appropriators requesting full funding for the National Estuary Program (NEP). Larsen and LoBiondo’s bill to reauthorize the NEP through 2020 passed the House last summer. “The people who live and work near and on our estuaries have the greatest stake in sound coastal management, best understand the unique challenges and opportunities in those places, and know the right stakeholders to engage in crafting durable and effective solutions,” they wrote. “NEPs play a key role in implementing national policies that result in better, more cost-effective coastal management that benefits states and local communities.” Full text of the letter follows. The letter is also available here. March 22, 2016 Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: Estuaries are one of the most productive habitats on earth, but are increasingly affected by impacts of human population growth along the coast. In 1987, Congress established the National Estuary Program (NEP) to identify, protect, and restore “estuaries of national significance.” Now located within 28 different watersheds, the National Estuary Program is recognized as a model for building partnerships to protect the coastal environment, sustaining coastal economies and the jobs that come with it, and improving our quality of life. We are writing to thank you for your past support of the NEP, and ask you to continue to invest directly in the stewardship of our nation’s coasts by ensuring that each of the 28 NEPs in the field receives level funding of $600,000 in FY 2017. Each National Estuary Program: Demonstrates real environmental results through on-the-ground habitat restoration and protection. Reflects local environmental and economic priorities. Involves the community as equal partners and engages the public throughout the decision-making process Demonstrates the ability to secure and leverage funds from multiple sources Ensures decisions are based on the best science available Builds on water quality control measures and tailors them to specific places and communities Is non-regulatory and cost-effective Collectively, NEPs have restored and protected more than 1.5 million acres of land since 2000 alone. As the health of our coastal ecosystems decline, NEPs work to ensure that federal agencies work together and with state, regional, NGO and private partners to better manage ocean and coastal resources for the benefit of the nation and to reduce conflicts, redundancies, and inefficiencies that waste time and money. The people who live and work near and on our estuaries have the greatest stake in sound coastal management, best understand the unique challenges and opportunities in those places, and know the right stakeholders to engage in crafting durable and effective solutions. NEPs play a key role in implementing national policies that result in better, more cost-effective coastal management that benefits states and local communities. We believe the NEPs in the field should continue to receive $600,000 each in order to continue ongoing work to help ensure the ecological and economic viability of our nation’s estuaries. Thank you for your strong support of this program over the years, and for considering our request. Sincerely, Frank A. LoBiondo Member of Congress Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
03.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his work to help small businesses grow through exports by leading efforts to fund the State Trade Expansion Program (STEP) in FY 2017. Larsen and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, sent a letter to House appropriators along with 17 other members requesting sufficient funding for STEP. The program has helped more than 450 small businesses in Washington state bring in $220 million in sales, according to the Washington State Department of Commerce, which administers the program Larsen and Reichert reintroduced a bill last year to reauthorize STEP. A recently passed trade bill (the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015) included $30 million annually for STEP for each of the next five years. Full text of the letter follows. The letter is available here. March 16, 2016 Dear Chairman Crenshaw and Ranking Member Serrano: We urge the Committee to include funding for the State Trade Expansion Program (STEP) consistent with the authorization levels provided in the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. Since its inception in 2010, STEP has produced impressive results supporting small businesses. The STEP program’s benefits are twofold. First, the program increases the total number of small businesses that export by providing support to help them start selling their products abroad. Second, the program helps small businesses that have been exporting to increase their sales in overseas markets. The STEP grant award is available in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. Territories. In the first two years of STEP, 3,737 small businesses benefited from participation in the program. Around the country, a majority of states have effectively leveraged these resources for a return on investment of more than $10 for every $1 invested. In Washington State, the program returns an extraordinary $182 to the state’s economy for every $1 spent. The STEP program helps our small businesses create jobs here at home by helping these businesses sell more of their products overseas. Recently, Congress overwhelmingly supported a reauthorization of the STEP program in the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, and we respectfully request that you provide funding consistent with this newly enacted legislation. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress David G. Reichert Member of Congress Sheila Jackson Lee Member of Congress Charles B. Rangel Member of Congress Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress Ron Kind Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Mike Quigley Member of Congress William R. Keating Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress John K. Delaney Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Danny K. Davis Member of Congress Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Member of Congress Ami Bera Member of Congress Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress Collin C. Peterson Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress ###
03.23.2016	Co-Chairs of Electronic Warfare Working Group push to ensure U.S. maintains competitive EW edge WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a time of changing and increasingly agile national security threats, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Jackie Walorski, IN-02, today introduced a bill to help the U.S. keep its competitive edge in the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum domain. Larsen and Walorski are the co-chairs of the Electronic Warfare Working Group and members of the House Armed Services Committee. The Electronic Warfare Capabilities Enhancement Act (H.R. 4851) will help get innovative electronic warfare (EW) technology into the hands of warfighters more quickly so they can effectively defeat existing and emerging threats. The bill acknowledges the need to treat the electromagnetic spectrum as a critical operational domain, similar to air, land, surface and submarine warfare. It also places more responsibility with the year-old EW Executive Committee to guide a coordinated, Pentagon-wide approach to EW investment. “Our warfighters face a wide range of threats in the EM spectrum, from terrorist groups using cheap, secure, commercially-available technology to rival nations deploying highly innovative electronics. Too often, our women and men in uniform are using outdated technology in the increasingly contested EM spectrum,” Larsen said. “The way we develop, buy and roll out EW technology must focus on getting the right capabilities fielded more quickly. This bipartisan bill will put flexible, adaptive technologies on the front lines faster, giving our servicemembers the EW solutions they need to perform their vital missions.” “As our military relies more and more on technology for everything from communications to targeting to unmanned vehicles, we need to ensure that these systems are not vulnerable to hacking, jamming, and other forms of electronic warfare. The Department of Defense established the joint Electronic Warfare (EW) Executive Committee to strengthen our defense against threats from our enemies, who have worked tirelessly to increase and expand their own capabilities,” Walorski said. “This legislation will empower the EW Executive Committee in procuring or updating protections to our military’s electronic infrastructure while also providing the Congress with the tools to properly fund and provide resources to these programs. In the global, and now digital, fight against terrorism, we cannot ignore the serious ramifications of failing to keep up with the ever changing pace of military technology. We must ensure our service men and women have access to communications systems that will allow them to quickly assert their information dominance in the fight against global terrorism.” The Electronic Warfare Capabilities Enhancement Act makes a number of advances to improve the way the Pentagon buys and implements EW technology: Gives the Department of Defense more flexibility, making it easier to modernize legacy systems and develop new EW technologies. Provides leaders in the Pentagon with more and better tools to more rapidly acquire advanced EW technology. Calls on the EW Executive Committee to report to Congress on a strategic plan to strengthen US EW capabilities, including new operational concepts, attributes needed in future EW capabilities, new training methods and requirements, and progress in streamlining acquisition processes. The bill is a companion to Senate bill 2486, introduced by Senators Mark Kirk (IL) and Kirsten Gillibrand (NY). ###
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is encouraging Northwest Washington cities and counties to take advantage of available transportation funding through the new five-year surface transportation bill that Congress passed in December. The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has recently opened up the application process for a number of programs under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST, Act) and Larsen is working to make sure Northwest Washington communities are well-positioned. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. I worked hard to include Northwest Washington’s priorities in the FAST Act, such as ferryboat funding, investments in bike and walking paths and resources for at-grade rail crossings. But this bill is only as good as the progress it makes on the ground for our roads, bridges, highways and transit. That is why I want to make sure local communities have the opportunity to apply for new funding to repair and build up their infrastructure,” Larsen said. DOT has announced funding opportunities available through the FAST Act: Freight mobility projects through the FASTLANE (Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies) Program ($800 million in FY2016): FASTLANE is designed to fund projects of national or regional significance, with 25 percent reserved for rural projects in areas with a population of 200,000 or less, and 10 percent for smaller projects, including planning and design work, with a cost of more than $5 million. Larsen has encouraged local communities to take a big-picture, coordinated approach to move the region’s freight mobility to the next level. Notice of Funding Opportunity available here. Infrastructure project financing through the TIFIA (Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act) program: TIFIA loans are available for a wide range of transportation projects, including transit development and smaller scale projects. Larsen pushed to develop a streamlined application process for smaller projects, and DOT is working on this process now. Notice of Funding Opportunity available here. DOT also announced another funding opportunity separate from the FAST Act: Transportation grant funding through the TIGER (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) program ($500 million in FY2016): TIGER grants are awarded competitively for a variety of transportation projects. Larsen supported a successful TIGER grant in 2015 for the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal. Notice of Funding Opportunity available here. ###
03.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Many jobs in today’s globally competitive workforce require some level of STEM skills, which is why Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced his support today for a new bill that encourages more women and minorities to enter STEM fields. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the Women and Minorities in STEM Booster Act, which sets up a competitive grant program for colleges, universities and nonprofit organizations to develop creative ways to recruit more women and minorities into science, technology, engineering and math. “Our country has to make the most of workers’ STEM potential if we are going to compete in today’s global economy. Women and minorities are underrepresented in STEM fields, which often pay a higher than average wage. More innovative minds solving tomorrow’s problems is a win for our economy and a win for workers’ paychecks,” Larsen said. Larsen also is leading a bill to develop partnerships between schools and apprenticeships in STEM fields to connect more students with good-paying jobs. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act creates a pathway for students from their junior year in high school through community college and into an apprenticeship, helping students gain skills directly related to workforce needs in their area. ###
03.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued a statement today regarding the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) extension the House passed that authorizes the agency through July 15. “The current House reauthorization bill contains much needed certification reforms, direction to speed up the integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), and a long term authorization of programs and funding. On certification, the House bill includes far-reaching reforms to streamline the FAA certification process that will help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs. “As it stands however, the House bill also contains a proposal to privatize the air traffic control (ATC) system and because of that privatization proposal, we are missing an opportunity to act swiftly and advance a long-term aviation bill. “Back in February, I said this bill could be a slam dunk but for privatization, and today I still feel that way. Unfortunately, this controversial privatization plan brings up the very real possibility that we could be looking at a series of extensions. As we know all too well, a series of short-term extensions has very real impacts on all users of the aviation system. “I am hopeful the House and Senate can work together to advance a long-term bill without putting our aviation system into a damaging holding pattern with a series of short-term patches,” Larsen said. Larsen, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, voted to strike the ATC privatization proposal, and instead make targeted reforms to FAA procurement and personnel at a Committee markup in February. ###
03.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a letter to National Security Advisor Susan Rice earlier this week, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, outlined important issues for Washington state that he hopes to be incorporated in the high-level discussions with President Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The Prime Minister’s official visit began this morning. “Since Canada is one of our country’s most important allies, this visit presents an opportunity for the United States and Canada to continue building a strong bilateral relationship. The visit is also a vehicle to advance bilateral cooperation on a number of subjects, including energy, the environment and the economy. In addition to these issues, there are four critical issues that are particularly important to the Pacific Northwest, especially Washington state,” Larsen wrote. Full text of the letter follows. March 7, 2016 The Honorable Susan E. Rice National Security Advisor U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear National Security Advisor Rice: President Obama will host Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for a state visit on March 10. Since Canada is one of our country’s most important allies, the visit presents an opportunity for the United States and Canada to continue building a strong bilateral relationship. The visit is also a vehicle to advance bilateral cooperation on a number of subjects, including energy, the environment and the economy. In addition to these issues, there are four critical issues that are particularly important to the Pacific Northwest, especially Washington state. I respectfully request that President Obama discuss these in further detail with Prime Minister Trudeau. First, the Columbia River Treaty provides enormous benefits to the Pacific Northwest by facilitating shared water resource management between the United States and Canada. Despite these benefits, an imbalance has emerged in the power benefits recognized under the Treaty. To address this imbalance it is my hope that President Obama can receive a commitment from the Canadian government to engage in Treaty discussions to balance power production. Related to this, it is important that the discussion include the United States and Canadian governments’ commitment to preserving the environment of the Pacific Northwest, and issues related to flood risk management. Second, projected increases in vessel traffic highlight the need for enhanced and effective vessel traffic services (VTS), which provide active monitoring and navigational advice for vessels in confined and busy waterways. Given the changing transportation energy situation in the United States and the recent lifting of the crude oil export ban, now is the time for the United States and Canadian governments to work towards harmonized regulations for the safe and environmentally sensitive transit of natural resources to and from West Coast ports. Third, as these increases in vessel traffic occur, we must remain committed to the vitality of our waterways. For more than two decades, inadequate wastewater treatment in Victoria has plagued the health and habitat of the region’s waters, including the Strait of Juan de Fuca. After several failed attempts at opening a sewage treatment plant, it now appears a solution is nowhere on the horizon. This lack of a solution undermines long-standing efforts at environmental restoration and wastewater management, and it jeopardizes the health of not only the Strait of Juan de Fuca, but all of the region’s waterways. Fourth, the United States shares an interest in the Arctic with Canada. The Arctic offers opportunity for improved science and sea floor mapping, which is critical to keeping people and the environment in the Arctic safe. Ship breaches like the MSV Fennica, a vessel Shell used in its Chukchi Sea energy exploration, could have been avoided if the Arctic had nautical charts at the same level of precision as the rest of our maritime domain. Maritime traffic will continue traversing these difficult regions, and action to avoid breaches must be a priority. Collaboratively, we must invest in scientific research to prevent future disasters and allow safe passage of northern sea routes. While the above is not an exhaustive list of issues between the United States and Canada, I encourage President Obama to address these subjects that are so important to Washington state and the greater Pacific Northwest. Thank you for your attention to these matters and please do not hesitate to contact me directly if you have any questions. Sincerely, Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Washington State, 2nd District ###
03.07.2016	BELLINGHAM—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that plans to dredge the Squalicum Waterway in Bellingham will move forward after the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers included $436,000 for the first phase of the project in its FY16 work plan. Larsen has championed the project through meetings with the Port of Bellingham to develop community support, as well as pressing the Corps to invest in the dredging project that is critical to the Northwest Washington economy. The Corps is funding the sediment characterization portion of the project, which is required before carrying out the larger maintenance dredging project. “The Squalicum Waterway enables commerce to flow in Northwest Washington, supporting about 2,000 jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. I am pleased the Corps recognizes that maintaining this waterway is critical to the Pacific Northwest economy,” Larsen said. “The Army Corps’ commitment to maintaining the Squalicum Waterway is great news for jobs and the economy in Whatcom County and the greater region, because our working waterfront businesses depend on the waterway to sell their goods both domestically and internationally. The Port is grateful to Congressman Larsen for his help in securing funding for the first phase of maintenance for the Squalicum Waterway,” said Port of Bellingham Executive Director Rob Fix. ###
03.07.2016	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting high school-aged students in the Second Congressional District to submit their artwork for the Congressional Art Competition. The U.S. House of Representatives holds the nationwide high school visual art competition to encourage and recognize artistic talent in each congressional district. The winning entry will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The winning artist will receive two free plane tickets to Washington, DC. Students in grades 9-12 who live or attend school in the Second Congressional District are eligible to apply. To participate, students must complete and submit the entry form. The form is available online (https://larsen.house.gov/helping-you/art-competition) or by calling Larsen’s Everett office at 425-252-3188. Entry forms must be signed by the student, a parent or guardian and a school faculty member. Forms and art submissions are due by Monday, April 18 at 4 p.m. They can be mailed or delivered to Larsen’s offices in Everett or Bellingham: Rep. Rick Larsen Re: Art Competition Wall Street Building 2930 Wetmore Avenue, Suite 9F Everett, WA 98201 Rep. Rick Larsen Re: Art Competition 119 North Commercial Street, Suite 1350 Bellingham, WA 98225 Art submissions can be submitted to one of Larsen’s district offices or a designated drop off location throughout the district, listed here. If students need assistance in getting their artwork to one of Larsen’s offices or the drop off locations, they can call the Everett office at 425-252-3188. Participants will be honored and the winner will be announced at a reception on April 23, 2016. Students can check whether they are Second District residents at this link: https:www.house.gov/representatives/find/ All entries must be original in concept, design and execution. For more information on the annual Congressional Art Competition, call 425-252-3188. ###
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Susan Brooks, IN-05, this week launched the School Safety Caucus to focus on best practices for school safety and investments to help schools meet their unique safety needs. Larsen and Brooks launched the Caucus at a briefing on Capitol Hill on Wednesday to address safety challenges and opportunities that schools face. “Schools must be a place where our students feel safe. The School Safety Caucus is a forum to look at the best ways for schools to approach their safety needs, as well as to push for investments in security and other safety measures,” Larsen said. “I want to see Congress do more in supporting our schools and communities to shrink the cycle of violence, and I thank Congresswoman Brooks for her partnership on this issue. By supporting safety, we can empower schools to focus on what they do best: teaching our students and preparing them for the future. “Keeping our schools safe takes all of us, and our children deserve a quality education in a safe environment,” Brooks said. “The School Safety Caucus is an important way that we as policymakers can join parents, students, teachers, security professionals, law enforcement and emergency personnel and advocate for the best ways to keep our kids safe at school. We all have to work together to craft solutions that meet the challenges posed by our increasingly digital and mobile world and to protect and ensure the safety of schools so that students and educators alike can focus on learning. I’m looking forward to working with Congressmen Larsen to address this important issue.” Larsen also introduced the School Safety Act, which would reauthorize the Secure Our Schools program to provide matching grants to local, state and tribal governments to meet schools’ individual security needs. Brooks is a cosponsor of the bill. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting constituents having issues with a federal agency to talk with his staff at mobile “office hours” in Burlington on March 10 and in Lynnwood on March 24. Larsen’s office can act as a liaison between constituents and federal agencies to help resolve concerns including: Social Security Administration benefits Department of Veteran’s Affairs disability claims IRS refund issues U.S. Immigration matters Office of Personnel Management retirement benefits A team from Larsen’s office will be available to discuss constituents’ federal agency concerns and potential solutions. Larsen’s staff will be holding mobile office hours monthly. Constituents with questions can also call Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188. In 2015, Larsen’s office was able to assist more than 400 constituents who were facing issues with federal agencies. Burlington – Thursday, March 10 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Burlington Public Library Rotary Community Meeting Room 820 Washington Ave. Lynnwood – Thursday, March 24 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Lynnwood Public Library Large meeting room 19200 44th Avenue W ###
02.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after the U.S. Navy announced that it will homeport a new destroyer at Naval Station Everett. The Navy had already committed to homeporting five destroyers at the base, and today’s announcement brings the total to six. The USS Ralph Johnson is a new destroyer that will be commissioned in FY2017. “Today’s announcement highlights the crucial role that Naval Station Everett plays in keeping our country safe and protecting our interests worldwide. Homeporting a new destroyer in Everett shows the Navy’s ongoing commitment to the base as a critical component of our country’s Asia-Pacific security strategy. “Ensuring the Navy maintains a strong presence in Everett has always been a priority for me. I have advocated for new destroyers at Naval Station Everett for more than 10 years, and I have had many discussions with Navy officials about homeporting critical assets in Everett. “On top of the base’s strategically important location, its facilities are among the best the Navy has to offer. Local officials and community leaders have worked hard together to support sailors and their families stationed at ‘The Sailor’s Choice’ in Everett. I look forward to welcoming the USS Ralph Johnson to Everett and letting its sailors and families know they are an important part of our community,” Larsen said. In April 2015, the Navy announced it would base the USS Kidd, USS Gridley and USS Sampson in Everett. The destroyers will replace frigates that were recently decommissioned, and they are all scheduled to arrive throughout 2016. The ship is named for Marine Private First Class Ralph Henry Johnson, who posthumously received the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions during the Vietnam War. Pfc. Johnson used his body to shield two fellow Marines from a grenade, absorbing the blast and dying instantly in March 1968. Pfc. Johnson was from South Carolina, and he was 19 years old when he died in service to our country. ###
02.24.2016	Larsen’s measures to strengthen trade enforcement also signed into law WASHINGTON, D.C.—Small businesses will have more support to grow through exports because of provisions that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, championed in the trade bill that President Obama signed into law today. The President signed the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, which includes two Larsen-led measures to help small businesses increase their exports and two of his provisions to improve trade enforcement. Helping Small Businesses Larsen has long led efforts to fund the State Trade and Export Promotion program, which helps small businesses start exporting or increase their export capacity through funding for foreign trade missions, foreign sales trips, technical assistance and other cost-of-business expenses related to exporting. More than 450 small businesses in Washington state have made use of STEP to bring in $220 million in sales, according to the Washington State Department of Commerce, which administers the program. The new law also includes Larsen’s provision to require more coordinated, efficient assistance from the federal government to streamline trade resources for small businesses. “Today is a great day for small businesses in Northwest Washington and around the country that need a little extra help to get their products into the hands of consumers worldwide. According to the Small Business Administration, small businesses have generated the majority of net new jobs over the past decade, but less than one percent of them export—significantly fewer than other developed countries. “I have worked for years to invest in STEP, because when we help our small businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. STEP has a proven record of success, helping hundreds of small businesses in Washington state, like Warm Industrial Nonwovens in Lynnwood, generate millions of dollars in sales,” Larsen said. STEP grants have enabled Warm Industrial Nonwovens to attend international trade shows and get its products in front of major aerospace manufacturers including Boeing, Airbus, Bombardier and others, resulting in new sales, said company owner Jim Chumbley and sales director Steve Bagwell. “A big part of going to the shows is making connections with the corporate decision makers to then be able to sell to major manufacturers,” they said. The law: Authorizes the STEP program to receive $30 million annually for FY2016 – FY2020. The program received $17.4 million in FY2015, with Larsen’s urging. Streamlines the federal agencies that play a role in trade promotion to provide more efficient, effective assistance to small businesses seeking to start exporting or grow their exports. Strong Enforcement Larsen championed a new trust fund to pay for enforcement actions against other countries that break trade rules. He also supported a provision to require quick action against countries engaging in unfair trading practices, as well as an office dedicated to ensuring other countries play by the rules or face consequences. “If other countries want to trade with us, they must play by the rules or face the consequences. This new law creates for the first time a trust fund dedicated to enforcing trade deals. This fund is not just words on paper. It is real money, up to $30 million, to make sure our trading partners play fairly. “I am also pleased that the new law makes permanent an office dedicated specifically to enforcing trade agreements. The office has a strong track record since its inception in 2012, helping bring cases to the World Trade Organization (WTO) against countries like Argentina, China and India for unfair trade practices. Since 2009, the U.S. has brought 20 complaints to the WTO, more than any WTO member, and has won every case that has been decided so far. “With the new trust fund and more trade cops on the beat, the U.S. will be better equipped to track down and put a stop to countries that are creating an unfair playing field for our workers,” Larsen said. The law: Establishes a trust fund to pay for the enforcement of trade agreements and requires the U.S. Treasury to transfer $15 million each year to the fund, which may have a balance of up to $30 million; Permanently establishes the Interagency Center on Trade Implementation, Monitoring and Enforcement in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to increase investigations and enforcement actions; and Establishes new requirements for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to initiate investigations within 15 days of receiving a petition about allegations of unfairly traded goods and make a final determination within 210 days. ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to uphold workers’ rights through several amendments to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill. Larsen took the votes during the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of H.R. 4441, the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act of 2016. “A strong economic foundation for our workers requires fair and secure workplaces. That is why I voted today to increase the amount of rest that flight attendants receive to a minimum of 10 hours, because the well-being and safety of crew members depends on getting enough rest. And I fought successfully against a threat to the Davis-Bacon Act, which has protected wages for middle class families for decades. “Despite the many positive reforms included in this bill that will support a strong aviation system and its workers, I remain concerned about the proposal to hand over our airspace to private control. Running a science experiment with the most complex airspace in the world comes with a lot of risk, including the uncertain futures of thousands of workers at FAA. While the committee worked through a lot of important issues today, I remain completely unsatisfied with the ATC privatization proposal,” Larsen said. Larsen voted on several amendments to protect workers, including: Strike ATC privatization and make targeted reforms to FAA procurement and personnel. (Larsen voted yes; amendment failed) Require a minimum of 10-hour rest periods for flight attendants, as well as fatigue risk management plans. (Larsen voted yes; amendment passed) Provide airline ticket and gate agents with the same legal protections from assault as flight attendants and flight crews. (Larsen voted yes; amendment passed as part of a larger package) Raise the Davis Bacon threshold for any airport development project to $150,000. (Larsen voted no; amendment failed) Strike the preemption of state meal and rest break laws for truck drivers. (Larsen voted yes; amendment failed) ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded the transit funding included in the President’s budget for critical projects in Northwest Washington, and he pledged to continue fighting for strong transportation investments as Congress takes up the budget for FY2017. In his budget request to Congress for FY2017, President Obama included $125 million for Sound Transit’s Lynnwood Link light rail extension, part of a total $1.1 billion grant intended for the project (through the New Starts program). The President also included $43 million for Community Transit’s second Swift rapid-transit bus route between Paine Field and Canyon Park in Bothell (through the Small Starts program). Larsen supported both grant applications. “It is a big deal that President Obama included job-creating transit funding for Northwest Washington in his budget. The millions of dollars for bus rapid transit and light rail are a marker of the strength of the projects and the need of our region. The Swift line will better connect workers and employment centers in Snohomish County. The Lynnwood link is a critical part of Sound Transit’s efforts to build light rail that will serve as a transit spine from Everett to Tacoma. “The onus is now on Congress to fully fund the Federal Transit Administration for the coming year and to get a budget done on time. The President has laid out a strong plan for transit, and I will fight to turn line items on a page into real transit solutions for Northwest Washington. “We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. Building up the transit network that Northwest Washington needs will cut down growing traffic congestion and enable people and products to move more efficiently,” Larsen said. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, led efforts late last year to include Pacific Northwest transportation priorities in the new five-year transportation bill. In September, Larsen rode a Community Transit bus with morning commuters from Lynnwood to Seattle to discuss transit issues. Background on Community Transit’s Swift Lines Community Transit in Snohomish County created the state’s first Bus Rapid Transit line in 2009. It has been a huge success. Swift carries about 5,700 riders every weekday. The Swift line was funded with federal assistance, including: $1.5 million from the Federal Highway Administration’s Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality program; $11.3 million in capital to purchase 15 Swift buses from the Federal Transit Administration bus and bus facilities accounts; and $480,000 to operate Swift for late-night/weekend service, through FTA’s Job Access and Reverse Commute program. ###
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Markup of H.R. 4441, the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization Act of 2016. The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Watch Larsen’s opening remarks here. Good morning. Before I get into my statement, I would like to echo what I said at yesterday’s hearing. This FAA reauthorization bill largely reflects the result of bipartisan hard work and compromise, and I thank Chairman Shuster and Chairman LoBiondo for working with Ranking Member DeFazio, myself, and other Democratic members on this Committee. This bill contains much needed certification reforms, direction to speed up the integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS), and a long-term authorization of programs and funding. And the bill could be a slam dunk. However, because of the proposal to privatize the air traffic control (ATC) system, I believe we are going to miss an opportunity to act swiftly and advance a long-term aviation bill. There are much needed reforms in this bill that are ready to go, and at this stage, I am concerned these bipartisan policy proposals are going to stall because of efforts to spin off ATC. It’s certainly all of our responsibility to do what is best for our national aviation system. Unfortunately, with ATC privatization, we are falling short of that. Before I offer some additional thoughts on privatization, I would like to mention a few safety concerns. Safety. I am concerned that the bill prevents FAA from advancing rules to protect the flying public from the well-known risks of transporting lithium batteries by air. I am also concerned about eliminating the longstanding requirements for general aviation pilots to obtain a medical fitness certification before flying. I would like to see the committee address these issues today. While there are a few changes we should make to the bill’s safety provisions, I can say I am pleased with reforms in two key areas – certification and UAS. Certification. This bill contains far-reaching reforms to streamline the FAA certification process that will help U.S. manufacturers become more competitive and create jobs. The reforms reflect a consensus between industry and government stakeholders, designed to save time, make products safer and get them to market quicker. I am confident these changes will help domestic aviation aircraft and avionics manufacturers compete on the international stage. As for unmanned aircraft, the bill makes significant and exciting changes to speed up the integration of unmanned aircraft in the national airspace. The bill directs the FAA to hold safety paramount – by increasing educational and outreach efforts to UAS operators, encouraging enforcement of unsafe and unauthorized operations, and establishing a pilot program to detect and employ measures to neutralize unsafe UAS. The bill also creates a new risk-based permitting program that will dramatically increase the safe pace of UAS integration. Changes in this bill will help safely integrate UAS while enabling our country to keep its place as a global leader in aviation and aerospace technology. ATC Privatization. But I must emphasize again are my concerns regarding efforts to privatize our ATC system. I don’t think experimenting with the most complex airspace in the world comes without a lot of risk. As you heard me say yesterday, the Department of Defense plays a critical role in protecting our nation, and that’s just not a role I am comfortable relegating primarily to a private corporation. I believe we are just scratching the surface when it comes to identifying operational issues involving the DOD. So stay tuned. Finally, I would like to reiterate the bipartisan efforts of Chairman Shuster, Chairman LoBiondo, and Ranking Member DeFazio. But the privatization effort still causes me a lot of concern. I look forward to the mark up today. I look forward to working toward an agreement where we can move forward the positive and critical bipartisan reforms we have reached without having them weighed down by differences over ATC reform. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after a Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing about a proposal to privatize the air traffic control system. Larsen brought forward concerns from the Department of Defense (DOD) about what the proposal would mean for national security. The DOD is currently an equal partner with the Federal Aviation Administration in managing the national airspace, but the privatization proposal would relegate DOD to an advisory role, leaving many unanswered questions about where DOD fits. “I started this hearing with many concerns about the GOP proposal to privatize the national airspace, especially how it would affect national security. Red flags are only waving harder after the GOP expert on ATC privatization had few answers about DOD’s role, going so far as to say those issues are the ‘turf’ of the House Armed Services Committee. “The takeaway is that even the majority’s ATC privatization expert has not thought through the national security implications and says the issue belongs to HASC. “At the beginning of this hearing I said that DOD’s role in this privatization proposal remains undeveloped, uncertain and undermined. Nothing has changed, and we are still left with many more questions than answers. “Running political science experiments on our national airspace, and by extension our national security, is not an option. Without clear answers about DOD’s role, this proposal cannot go forward,” Larsen said. Read Larsen’s full opening statement here. Watch his opening remarks here, and his questions to witnesses here. More information about the ATC privatization proposal is available here. ###
02.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee’s hearing, “Review of ATC Reform Proposals.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Mr. Chairman, thank you for agreeing to hold this hearing and for the opportunity to discuss your legislative proposal to privatize our nation’s air traffic control (ATC) system. But before we talk privatization, I would like to thank you and Chairman LoBiondo, who have worked with Ranking Member DeFazio, me, and other Democratic Members on every other title in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill introduced last week. As a result, the bill is full of bipartisan provisions to increase airport investment, improve U.S. manufacturers’ ability to get products to market, integrate unmanned aircraft and improve air service for the traveling public. A majority of the bill is the product of bipartisan efforts that will move our country’s aviation system forward in a big way. However, I believe privatizing ATC in the United States would be a science experiment with a lot of potential to go wrong. I want to highlight two areas where I think the implications of this mistake are most evident and problematic. The first deals with NextGen. While we can all acknowledge that implementation has been slow and expensive, it’s now moving forward, thanks in large part to Chairman LoBiondo’s efforts. The FAA is finally reaching and passing important milestones on major industry priorities, such as DataComm, multiple-runway operations, performance-based navigation procedures, and programs to reduce taxi times and ground delays. So breaking apart the FAA at a time when it is making real and important strides towards NextGen implementation would be unwise. We’re on a nonstop flight with NextGen implementation, but we’re headed for a seven-year-plus layover with privatization. The other area that causes me great concern, and where the proposal is only partially thought out at best, is what privatization would mean to the Department of Defense and our national security. Earlier this week, I had the opportunity to speak with representatives from the Department of Defense about ATC privatization. The last conversation we had was in May, and their concerns have not changed. While this is not an exhaustive list, I think it is critical for the committee to hear the takeaways from that meeting. First, the one thing that is clear to me about where DOD fits into ATC privatization is that we have very little clarity on this issue. DOD controls nearly 15 percent of the nation’s airspace. But this bill gives the Department of Defense a mere advisory role on the board of directors, a demotion from its current equal-footing partnership with FAA. The Department of Defense may have little to no say about routes and airspace, because the bill does little to explain how the Board would make these decisions with DOD. Additionally, after decades of a government-to-government relationship, the FAA and DOD conduct day-to-day ATC operations under the guidance of various MOUs and policy agreements. How would this relationship be handled under privatization? How would dispute resolution be settled? We aren’t sure because the bill is silent on these issues. If the corporation’s goal is to maximize efficiency and reduce user fees, how would it maintain assets, like primary radar, that the DOD uses? We also aren’t sure how special-use airspace will operate, how user fees will be charged to international state aircraft, or how joint civilian and military installations will handle air traffic. The list doesn’t stop there. As we all know, the FAA’s role in securing our national airspace is critical to homeland defense. This has been accomplished through long-standing and well-articulated agreements between the FAA and DOD. I’m concerned that entrusting this mission to a private-sector entity separate from the government would be a reckless decision with potentially dire consequences, consequences we may not have thought of yet because we have not fully aired out where DOD fits. DOD’s role in this privatization proposal is undeveloped, undermined and uncertain. Giving DOD a mere advisory role with no other discussion about the challenges reminds me of the role that Coldplay had in the Super Bowl half-time show: billed as a headliner, but quickly outshined. As we sit here today, the simple fact is that privatization raises too many questions that we just cannot answer – especially one week after seeing the legislation. I do not see how this proposal can go through until we get clear answers to these issues. Before this legislation moves any further, this committee has the responsibility to get clarity about what privatization means for our national security, and what impacts it could have, not on some users of the system, but on all users of the system. We have not had those conversations, and we must. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the President released his budget proposal for FY2017. Larsen said the President’s budget contains many positive investments that will create more good-paying jobs, access to skills training, financial security and opportunity for communities in Northwest Washington. “The budget the President announced today makes forward-thinking investments in a strong economic foundation that puts jobs and opportunity first. “The administration’s commitment to creating jobs by supporting our small businesses through the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program is great news. Small manufacturers in the Pacific Northwest and across the country are working hard every day to expand into to new markets and get their products into the hands of consumers worldwide. STEP gives them the tools to grow and expand abroad, creating jobs here at home. “I want our students to have a clear path to good-paying jobs through access to more skills training. I am pleased that President Obama shares my vision and has included $2 billion in his 2017 budget proposal for an Apprenticeship Training Fund that would double the number of U.S. apprenticeships. “People should be able to get skills training without burdensome student debt so they can focus on their futures. Pell Grants help make education affordable for thousands of students in my district, and I am glad to see the President’s budget expanding these grants so students can use them for summer classes. “Our national budget is a statement of our values and what matters to our communities, and the President’s proposal moves our country in the right direction,” Larsen said. Earlier today, Larsen praised the administration’s inclusion in the budget of $4.6 million for a new fisheries research station in Mukilteo. Highlights of the President’s FY2017 Budget Proposal More Jobs State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program: $15 million. The STEP program helps small businesses trying to overcome hurdles to exporting. Larsen and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, introduced a bill to reauthorize STEP. Larsen has pushed each year for funding for the program. International Trade Administration: $521 million. Includes $20 million for SelectUSA, to recruit foreign businesses to invest in the U.S. and create jobs here. Other funding will support stronger enforcement for trade agreements, a priority for Larsen. Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership: $141 million. Helps small and medium-sized manufacturers access new technology to improve their competitiveness. TIGER Grants: $1.25 billion over 10 years to help states build up their roads, bridges, highways and transit. Transit: $10 billion. Invests in the Federal Transit Administration’s New Starts, Small Starts and Transit formula grants. NextGen: $1billion. NextGen is a satellite-based air traffic control system that the Federal Aviation Administration is in the process of implementing. As Ranking Member on the Aviation Subcommittee, Larsen has long worked to keep NextGen moving forward. Green Climate Fund: $750 million in funding for the Departments of State and Treasury to carry out commitments the U.S. made as part of the climate treaty reached in Paris. Icebreakers: $150 million for design of new icebreakers. Larsen has long called for the U.S. to better live up to its responsibilities as an Arctic nation, including building more icebreakers. More Education & Skills Training Apprenticeship Training Fund: $2 billion. Doubles the number of apprenticeships across the U.S. Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act: $3 billion. Competitive grants for regional partnerships to bring together employers, education and training providers and workforce boards to train 500,000 people in high-demand fields. More Financial Security Pell Grants: $30.1 billion. Enables students to use Pell Grants for courses year-round. Increases the maximum Pell Grant by $300, to $6,235. Indexes future Pell Grant awards to inflation. Simplifying the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA): Starting in October, students will be able to submit their FAFSA forms three months earlier so they can have a better understanding of their financial responsibility for college before they actually apply. Unemployment Insurance: Requires states to provide at least 26 weeks of benefits. Establishes a wage insurance program for workers with at least three years of job tenure who lose their jobs and take a lower-paying job that pays less than $50,000 per year More Opportunity Paid Leave Partnership Initiative: $2 billion. Funds will help up to five states launch paid family leave programs. Wages and working conditions: $277 million to enforce laws that establish the minimum standards for wages and working conditions in many workplaces in the U.S. Treatment for opioid addiction epidemic: $1 billion to help states expand treatment for addiction. $500 million to help states expand overdose prevention strategies. Preventing Hunger: Full funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children. HUD-VASH: $496 million to assist veterans struggling with homelessness. Veterans health care: $65 billion to provide veterans with medical care, including $7.8 billion for mental health care. Veterans disability claims: $54 million. Funds will pay for 300 additional staff to process claims. ###
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded President Obama’s decision to invest in marine science and the economic activity it supports by including $4.6 million in his FY2017 budget to support a new fisheries research station in Mukilteo. The new facility will be part of the Northwest Fisheries Science Center, whose current Mukilteo research station is several decades old and needs major upgrades to continue to produce cutting-edge research. The research station is a facility of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). “The Pacific Northwest has always been a leader when it comes to protecting our environment. We start a new chapter of environmental stewardship with a cutting-edge research station that will help keep our fisheries vibrant for future generations. From assessing fish stocks and protecting red abalone, which are vital to healthy ocean habitats, to better understanding algae blooms and changing ocean chemistry, the research our scientists are producing is critical to healthy fisheries and the tens of thousands of jobs they support. “I want to see our region meet the emerging climate change challenges we face, like ocean acidification, with smart and innovative action based on sound science. Ensuring our scientists have access to modern, well-equipped facilities will position us to take on these challenges successfully. “I applaud the President for recognizing the importance of marine science that fosters a healthy environment and economy in the Pacific Northwest and in other coastal regions nationwide,” Larsen said. “The research station will be part of a redevelopment of Mukilteo’s entire waterfront, including beach access, trails, mixed use development and a multimodal transportation center. A modernized facility will not only enable significant marine research, but it will serve as an educational hub for students of all ages to learn first-hand about the value of science to our environment and our economy,” said Mukilteo Mayor Jennifer Gregerson. “I thank Congressman Larsen for his efforts to ensure Mukilteo remains a leader on environmental research, and I am so pleased the President has recognized the value of the work that happens here.” Larsen has long championed efforts to modernize the Center and the research station, whose scientists conduct fisheries research that has both regional and national economic impacts. Larsen also hosted NOAA Administrator Kathryn Sullivan at the Mukilteo research station last year. Funds from the President’s budget would cover the design and environmental work needed to get the site ready for construction. The Center’s research activities support commercial and recreational fisheries in the Pacific Northwest valued at more than $3 billion and supporting more than 60,000 jobs. The Center’s studies also support a regional shellfish industry worth more than $107 million, the largest in the country. ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about the proposed Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill. Larsen, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, highlighted some of the many bipartisan accomplishments in the bill, the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act, while voicing his disapproval of the Republican proposal to privatize the air traffic control system. “The U.S. airspace is one of the safest and most efficient in the world. The reforms we have reached on a bipartisan basis over the last several months will help maintain the U.S. aviation system’s impressive safety record and global leadership. For example, the ability of U.S. manufacturers to improve our aviation system, and to compete in the global marketplace, is tied to the FAA’s timely review of new products. I am pleased with the changes the bill makes to streamline certification processes while maintaining the highest level of safety. “I am also pleased the bill requires the FAA to move forward with rulemaking that would require certain airplanes to provide bathrooms that are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Air travel can be prohibitive for those with disabilities, and I want to see airplanes that are more accessible. “The U.S. aviation system continues to be a leader in safety and innovation, but we have opportunities to strengthen our presence abroad. That is why I pushed for a provision that will help promote our world-class aviation standards, products and services. “I disagree that the GOP privatization proposal is necessary to address the problems we face with the FAA. Much like we would not privatize our nation’s system of roads, bridges and highways, we should not privatize the highways of our skies. And while I understand NextGen reforms have been slow in coming, the FAA is making steady progress. Right now we are on a non-stop flight to implementing NextGen, but with privatization of the air traffic control system, we are headed for a seven-year-plus layover. “An otherwise strong, bipartisan reauthorization bill now stands to be held up because of a complex, untested proposal to privatize air traffic control. Our aviation industry cannot afford these costly delays. “I am also disappointed with language that would repeal state laws and prevent states from requiring meal and rest breaks for truckers. This is a safety issue that almost derailed the success of the FAST Act, and it has no place in this bill,” Larsen said. ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting constituents having issues with a federal agency to talk with his staff at mobile “office hours” in Burlington and Lynnwood this month. Larsen’s office can act as a liaison between constituents and federal agencies to help resolve concerns including: · Social Security Administration benefits · Department of Veteran’s Affairs disability claims · IRS refund issues · U.S. Immigration matters · Office of Personnel Management retirement benefits A team from Larsen’s office will be available to discuss constituents’ federal agency concerns and potential solutions. Larsen’s staff will be holding mobile office hours monthly. Constituents with questions can also call Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188. In 2015, Larsen’s office was able to assist more than 400 constituents who were facing issues with federal agencies. Upcoming mobile office hours: Burlington – Thursday, February 11 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Burlington Public Library Gentry Family Meeting Room 820 Washington Ave. Lynnwood – Thursday, February 25 11:30 a.m. – 2 p.m. Lynnwood Public Library Large meeting room 19200 44th Avenue W ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called for investments to support long-term economic growth and opportunity in Northwest Washington in a statement to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Budget. Larsen highlighted his priorities for the coming year and urged the committee to fund critical investments that create more jobs and more access to skills training. The full text of Larsen’s testimony follows. Chairman Price, Ranking Member Van Hollen, and members of the Committee: Thank you for the chance to speak to you about investments in our economic future in Northwest Washington, where I am from, and across our nation. Our country has made a lot of economic progress since the Great Recession. With the unemployment rate down to 5 percent nationally, people are getting back to work. But it’s clear that not everyone is sharing in the benefits of a growing economy, and many people understandably feel uncertain about the future. That’s why I ask your support today for investments in the coming year that will grow our economy so people have access to more good-paying jobs, more skills training, more financial security, and more opportunities to participate fully in their communities. Let me elaborate on each of these critical priorities I will be working on over the next several months. One of the best ways I know to put people to work is to invest in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. The FAST Act that Congress passed in December makes critical investments in our country’s transportation infrastructure and brings more funding certainty to our communities for transportation repair and upgrade projects for the next five years. Now we need to make sure this bill translates into results. I ask that you fully fund the FAST Act in the coming year so cities and counties in my district and nationwide can put people to work building and repairing their infrastructure. Another linchpin of our transportation network is our aviation system, which generates jobs and economic activity in Northwest Washington and across the country that cannot be overstated. As the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, one of my top priorities is to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration to maintain the U.S. aviation system’s impressive safety record and global leadership. While our country’s airspace is one of the safest and most efficient in the world, there are updates and new technology that we need to incorporate through the Next Generation Air Transportation system. I urge this committee to provide stable and adequate funding for the FAA so it can move forward with critical NextGen reforms. Just as my state’s economy depends on reliable and safe transportation networks, it also depends on access to international markets. Foreign trade touches 40 percent of all jobs in Washington state. When we export our products around the world, we create jobs here at home. I urge this committee to fund the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program, which helps small- and medium-sized businesses find new markets and overcome the hurdles to export. More than 450 small businesses in Washington state have benefitted from the program. My state is on track to generate a return of $182 for every $1 invested in small businesses through STEP. That kind of success begs repeating, and I request that the committee fully fund STEP. A strong economy demands that people can get the skills they need to succeed in the workforce. More than 90 percent of apprentices are employed after they finish their apprenticeships, and the average starting salary is $50,000. That is why I have introduced the Youth Access to American Jobs Act, to create a pathway to engage students in STEM-related fields from their junior year in high school through community college and into an apprenticeship. By linking schools with apprenticeship programs, students will gain hands-on experience and skills directly related to workforce needs in their area. I ask this committee to fully fund apprenticeship opportunities that are giving thousands of people each year access to critical skills training. Finishing an education should lead to focus on the future, not financial ruin. I urge the committee to fully fund post-secondary education programs that reduce the debt students have when they graduate, such as Pell Grants. Pell Grants help about 13,000 students and families in my district to gain skills in advanced manufacturing, engineering, and nursing. Many of these students could not otherwise afford college. I also want to see students have the opportunity to refinance their loans at lower rates so they can focus on their futures, instead of their debt. The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act is a key way we can cut down on student debt, and I hope members of the committee will join me in supporting this bill. The priorities we include in our country’s budget make a powerful statement about our values and what matters to our communities. As you craft the budget for the coming year, I ask that you consider the critical role that transportation, small business exports and education access play in my district and around the country. Thank you for your consideration. ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would undermine the U.S. government’s ability to carry out the international agreement to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon. The vote comes after Implementation Day has already been declared, when the International Atomic Energy Agency verified on January 16 that Iran met the requirements under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and sanctions began to lift. “I support the JCPOA because I believe the agreement is the best available option to halt Iran’s progress toward building a nuclear weapon. Derailing the agreement just as it gets started is short-sighted, ineffective and damages our international reputation. Our partners in this agreement are moving forward, and if Iran continues to fulfill its commitments, nuclear sanctions will continue to be lifted. It is far better for national security if sanctions relief comes with the agreement’s stringent limitations on the Iranian nuclear program and a robust inspections regime,” Larsen said. Iran has taken more than 40 steps to curtail its nuclear program, including removing more than 70 percent of its centrifuges, rendering the Arak facility reactor core inoperable, and reducing its uranium stockpile by 98 percent. The bill (H.R. 3662), which passed the House by a vote of 246 to 181, essentially stops the JCPOA from going forward by preventing the President from lifting any sanctions against Iranian banks or officials, even though the U.S. and other countries involved in the agreement have already lifted some sanctions as a result of the progress Iran has made so far. ###
01.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised a move by the Department of Defense to improve its benefits for military families, including expanded reproductive care and adoption assistance, two services Larsen has pushed for. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter announced a number of changes to policies for military families as part of an ongoing review of military recruiting and retention. However, one change could reduce paid maternity leave for some military families, which Larsen said he did not support and would address with the Department of Defense. “I want our servicemembers to have the support needed to start and raise healthy families. That is why I have pushed for better access to reproductive care and adoption assistance for our women and men in uniform and for veterans, and I am pleased the Department of Defense is recognizing the importance of these services. Women and men in uniform who already make sacrifices in service to our country should not face barriers here at home when it comes to achieving their dream of starting a family,” Larsen said. Larsen is leading a bill, the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015, to expand reproductive health services to help servicemembers and veterans with service-connected disabilities start families. The bill would also expand services specifically designed for the care of women veterans. A summary of the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. Larsen expressed frustration at an announced change in maternity leave that could negatively affect some military families. The new policy standardizes 12 weeks of paid maternity leave for all branches of the military. The Navy and Marine Corps currently offer 18 weeks, while the Army and Air Force offer 6 weeks. “While it is good news that the Department of Defense is working to support military families, cutting maternity leave for Navy families undermines recruiting and retention. I will work with the Department of Defense in the coming weeks on this issue that impacts the servicemembers in my district,” Larsen said. ###
01.21.2016	OAK HARBOR—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, toured the WIC office at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and met with staff to talk about the critical services offered to military families and applaud the U.S. Navy’s decision to keep the office open. The Navy previously had planned to close the base’s WIC office, which is run by Community Action of Skagit County, but reversed its decision following Larsen’s work in partnership with Senator Patty Murray to urge the Department of Defense to keep the office open. The WIC (formally known as the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children) office has been offered a five-year lease from the Navy, without excessive building lease fees. WIC offers supplemental foods, health care referrals, and nutrition education for pregnant women, infants, and children up to age five. “I want military families to count on support in the communities in which they live. That is why I worked with other local leaders to keep open the WIC office on NASWI. In touring the WIC office today, I learned more about the hundreds of families who visit the office each month and the other services families can access in the same building. Streamlining these resources means families can focus on their futures by getting the services they need quickly and easily. I am grateful to the office staff and to the base for helping young military families give their children a healthy start,” Larsen said. "Serving Navy families on the base has been a priority for us for many years, and we are grateful for Congressman Larsen’s efforts to make sure young military families continue to have access to WIC services,” said Bill Henkel, Executive Director for Community Action of Skagit County. “Today we were pleased to share first-hand the way that WIC provides young children a strong, healthy start here on Whidbey. We also appreciate our strong relationship with NAS Whidbey Island and look forward to continuing to provide accessible support and services to our military’s families.” Larsen worked with Senator Murray to push the Navy to keep the WIC office open. Larsen and Murray wrote multiple letters to Defense Secretary Ashton Carter urging him to avoid closing the NAS Whidbey Island WIC office. ###
01.19.2016	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced his three principal nominees to the military service academies. The nominees, from Lopez Island, Arlington and Sedro-Woolley, will be granted spots in the academies this coming fall pending successful completion of their final year of high school. Larsen will also make 24 other nominations to the academies. “Our communities are home to so many talented and dedicated young people, and it is my privilege each year to nominate exemplary students to attend military service academies. I am always impressed by our students’ many academic and personal achievements, and this year is no different. I applaud these bright young women and men for choosing to apply their talents at military academies and pledging their service to our country,” Larsen said. Harrison P. Goodrich of Lopez Island will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Naval Academy. Goodrich is ranked number one in his class and serves on the student council at Lopez Island High School. He is a varsity athlete in four sports, serving as captain of both the football and baseball teams. He is a volunteer firefighter and a Student Emergency Medical Services member, assisting with the Island paramedics and EMTs. Anna J. Fujinaka of Arlington will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Military Academy. Fujinaka attends Everett Community College. She is a member of the Civil Air Patrol where she serves as the Arlington Composite Squadron Cadet Commander and has received numerous awards. Fujinaka volunteers with the Arlington Food Bank and practices kick boxing and mixed martial arts at the Arlington Kickboxing Academy. William W. Wing of Sedro-Woolley will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Wing is a member of the National Honor Society at Sedro-Woolley High School and is active in the community, as a three sport varsity athlete. Wing is a member of the Civil Air Patrol, serving as the Cadet Squadron Commander and the Aerospace Education Officer. He volunteers with the Mission Aviation Training Academy. Wing also has his private pilot’s license. For more information about service academy nominations, visit Larsen’s website: https://larsen.house.gov/helping-you/military-academy-nominations. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. “In his final State of the Union address, President Obama laid out a strong vision for a more unified country that puts jobs and opportunity first. He also rightly highlighted the economic progress we have made since the Great Recession – the 5 percent unemployment rate is half of what it was at its peak. In Washington state, we also have seen the economy improve, with the unemployment rate down to 5.3 percent after it rose above 9 percent seven years ago. “However, it is clear that not everyone is sharing the benefits of a growing economy and many people understandably feel uncertain about the future. I appreciate the President’s acknowledgment of all the work that is still in front of us to build an economy that works for everyone. My goal in the coming year is to invest in a strong economic foundation to give people access to more good-paying jobs, more skills training, more financial security, and more opportunities to participate fully in their communities. More Jobs “Setting our economy up for job-creating success in the way President Obama described requires robust transportation infrastructure. Building up our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems is one of the best ways I know to put people to work and keep our economy moving. Congress made progress late last year by passing a five-year transportation bill, but we still do not have a sustainable source of funding for our infrastructure. I will continue pushing hard to make sure our cities and counties have the resources they need to fix and upgrade our infrastructure. More Skills “A strong economy also demands that people can get the skills they need to succeed in the workforce. That is why I am working to increase access to apprenticeship programs, which build a clear bridge between high school students and good paying jobs. More Financial Security “I agree with the President that people should be able to get the education they need without burdensome student debt so they can focus on their futures. I will continue my strong support for Pell Grants, and I will be working to allow students to refinance their federal student loans to take advantage of lower interest rates. More Opportunity “Our economy and our democracy work best when everyone has the opportunity to participate, which President Obama highlighted clearly tonight. I agree that creating more opportunity means reforming our broken immigration system so immigrants have the chance to contribute fully to their communities. “The success of our country’s democracy depends on people’s participation at the ballot box, not the size of their bank accounts. I strongly support the President’s call to stop the flood of secret, unlimited money into campaigns, and I will keep working to make sure elections give power to the people, not to money. “I also support the President’s call to keep children and families safe from the gun violence epidemic with actions like stronger background checks. I am working on other ways we can make our communities safer. For example, I want to see Congress lift the federal ban on funding for research about gun violence, because better information about this serious public health problem can help direct effective solutions,” Larsen said. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of increasing sanctions against North Korea, following the government’s nuclear test earlier this month. The North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act (H.R. 757) is designed to put additional pressure on North Korea’s nuclear program, as well as call out the government for its human rights abuses. “The North Korean government has refused to participate in normal diplomatic relations, it has deepened the isolation of its people from the rest of the world since 2012, and it has unlawfully detained Americans in recent years. It also continues to threaten the world with its nuclear program. The U.S. should cut ties with any person or organization that aids North Korea’s nuclear program and human rights abuses. “This bill rightly puts more pressure on the North Korean government by improving U.S. inspections of ships and planes coming into our country that may have ties to North Korea. Goods from North Korea are not welcome in the U.S. marketplace as long as the country continues to defy nuclear treaties and international human rights standards. “While I am not optimistic, if the North Korean government decides to end its nuclear program and commits to improving the treatment of its people, this bill leaves the door open for easing the sanctions,” Larsen said. ###
01.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after Rep. Jim McDermott, WA-07, announced his retirement. “The U.S. House of Representatives is losing a great public servant with Jim's retirement. We still get a full year of his leadership and guidance, but he will leave behind big shoes to fill. “Jim's leadership in our state, his service to the U.S. State Department, and his strong advocacy in the U.S. House all deserve thanks and praise. His support for people facing disadvantages of all kinds at home and around the world will define his time of public service. “I count Jim as a mentor, guide and friend. I look forward to working with him in 2016 to protect hard-won progressive measures like the Affordable Care Act,” Larsen said. ###
01.04.2016	For months, Murray and Larsen urged the Department of the Navy to reconsider closure of WIC office, calling closure unacceptable WIC office will continue to serve close to 700 people connected to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (Washington, D.C.) – Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA) applauded news from the Department of Navy, which reversed its decision to close the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) office at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). The WIC office has been offered the opportunity to operate under a five-year lease directed by the Secretary of the Navy, without paying exorbitant building lease fees. Close to 700 people connected to NASWI use the services at the WIC office, which offers supplemental foods, health care referrals, and nutrition education for pregnant women, infants, and children up to age five “The announcement that this vital assistance won’t be shut down is great news for hundreds of servicemembers and military families who rely on this program to give their children a healthy start,” Senator Murray said. “I was proud to fight for this decision to be reversed for the military community that sacrifices so much for their country. Making sure our military families have the support they need to put food on the table is the least we should be doing, and this WIC office is an important part of making that happen for so many people in the Naval Air Station Whidbey Island community.” "I am glad that the Navy has come to this common sense decision. Community Action provides critical services in Skagit and Island Counties, including WIC, and I am pleased that military families will continue to have access to these nutrition programs on the base," Congressman Larsen said. "As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I will continue to fight for military families. Those who sacrifice for our country should not have to worry about whether they can afford their next meal."‎ "On behalf of the Navy WIC families we serve, Community Action owes a debt of gratitude to Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen for their steadfast support of young military families, and the way they have prioritized providing young children the best start possible," Bill Henkel, Executive Director said. "We also appreciate the leadership and our partners at NAS Whidbey Island for continuing to welcome us there. After serving Navy families on base for over 27 years we look forward to continuing to provide accessible support and services to our military’s families." This spring Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen both wrote letters to Defense Secretary Ashton Carter asking for a reversal in the decision. In October, Murray and Larsen sent a second letter to Secretary Carter, urging him again to avoid closing the WIC office. ###
12.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after the U.S. Navy announced that the USS Nimitz will remain homeported in Bremerton until two ship maintenance periods are completed. “While I am deeply disappointed in the Navy’s decision not to homeport the USS Nimitz at Naval Station Everett again until 2019, I remain as committed as ever to the base and its sailors and families. “Naval Station Everett is a strategically situated deep water port that offers the Navy unique and valuable access to the Pacific Ocean, a critical asset as our country increasingly engages in the Asia-Pacific region. The base also provides sailors and their families with a high quality of life, which led to its nickname of ‘the Sailor’s Choice.’ “Throughout my time in Congress I have worked hard to strengthen the base, and I will continue my efforts with leaders in our local communities and in the Navy to ensure Naval Station Everett remains one of our country’s preeminent naval assets for our carrier fleet,” Larsen said. ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of a bipartisan spending bill that makes major investments in the environment and clean energy, as well as other investments in jobs and opportunity for which he has long advocated. The FY2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act provides funding for all federal agencies through September 2016, in line with the bipartisan budget agreement that Congress passed in October. “In today's world of political extremes, it is sometimes hard to see the work of legislative compromise actually happen. More often than not, Congress produces legislation that is an all or nothing affair. But legislating as our country’s founders envisioned requires compromise, when both parties of a negotiation get some of the things they want and lose some of the things they want. That is how citizens expect Congress to operate – to find solutions that, on balance, advance the priorities of the American people. “And that is how the Democratic leadership operated with the spending bill that I voted for and Congress passed today, by negotiating hard and successfully to secure landmark victories for our environment and for our growing clean energy economy. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is back in action with a nearly 50 percent funding boost. This hugely successful conservation fund has helped preserve open spaces throughout the Pacific Northwest for 50 years. Communities can once again rely on the fund to protect public lands and waters like Ebey’s Reserve, Chuckanut Bay and the Wild Sky Wilderness. “The iconic Northwest salmon serves as an important cultural symbol and environmental linchpin. That is why I pushed to invest in the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, which has successfully supported improvements to hundreds of thousands of acres of salmon habitat. I am pleased that the fund will continue to restore critical salmon habitat in the coming year. “Northwest Washington is already a leader when it comes to renewable energy, and provisions in this bill will propel us forward with major investments in solar and wind technology. Following the historic climate change agreement in Paris, our country must take action to lead the way on renewable energy. We made a big down payment today for a clean energy economy and jobs. “I understand some people are unhappy about lifting the ban on crude oil exports. I would rather see the ban stay in place too. But the many victories for our environment and clean energy in this bill illustrate the hard work of legislative compromise,” Larsen said. Highlights of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Northwest Washington A full summary of the bill is available here. Protecting the Environment and Creating a Clean Energy Economy Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF): $450 million, an increase of $144 million over FY2015 levels. Congress let the LWCF expire earlier this year, and Larsen has pushed to reauthorize the successful conservation program. The omnibus authorizes the program for three years. Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund: $65 million, which is the funding level that Larsen requested. He has led efforts to secure funding for this critical habitat restoration program. Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy: $2.1 billion, which is $136 million more than FY2015 levels. This office leads federal efforts to develop and advance clean energy technology. Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E): $291 million, which is $11 million more than FY2015 levels. ARPA-E provides funding and assistance for emerging clean energy technology ideas. Investment Tax Credit: Extends this tax credit for solar installations for an additional five years, with a gradual decrease of the credit over that time frame. Production Tax Credit: Extends this tax credit for wind production for five years, with a gradual decrease of the credit over that time frame. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers: $6 billion, which is $535 million more than FY2015 levels. Of these funds, $1.2 billion is for Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund projects. Investing in Our Transportation Infrastructure Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program: $500 million. TIGER grants fund major transportation investment projects. The bill also includes language reminding the Secretary of Transportation to consider worthy transportation projects in suburban areas, which is similar to a bill that Larsen introduced called TIGER CUBS to modify the program to direct more of these funds to small and mid-sized cities like those throughout Northwest Washington. Supporting Small Business Job Growth State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program: $18 million. The STEP program helps small businesses trying to overcome hurdles to exporting. Larsen and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, introduced a bill to reauthorize STEP. Larsen requested continued STEP funding in the Consolidated Appropriations Act. Investing in Education and Training Impact Aid: $1.3 billion, which is an increase of $23 million from 2015 Impact Aid provides payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes, including La Conner, Marysville and Oak Harbor. Larsen has long championed Impact Aid in Congress and pushed successfully to improve the program in the education reform bill that Congress passed earlier this month. Pell Grants: $22.5 billion. Pell Grants help students with financial need attend college. The bill also increases the maximum Pell Grant award by $140 to $5,915. Head Start: $9.2 billion, which is $570 million more than the FY2015 level. Larsen asked for full funding for Head Start in FY2016 to support the centers in Northwest Washington that give our youngest students the opportunity to get ready for kindergarten and lifelong learning. Child Care Development Block Grant: $2.8 billion, which is $326 million more than FY2015 levels. Corporation for National and Community Service: $1.1 billion, an increase of $40 million over FY2015 levels. CNCS supports service programs like AmeriCorps, including those in Northwest Washington. Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) programs: $2.7 billion, which is an $86 million increase over FY2015 levels. WIOA is the largest source of federal funding for job training and adult education. Larsen voted for WIOA last year. Investing in Healthy and Safe Communities Local law enforcement support ​Byrne-JAG grants: $347.1 million. COPS: $212 million. Violence Against Women Act programs: $480 million, which is $50 million more than FY2015 levels. Larsen helped lead efforts to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act in 2013. Legal Services Corporation (LSC): $385 million, which is a $10 million increase over FY2015 levels. LSC provides legal assistance to people who may not otherwise be able to afford it. National Institutes of Health (NIH): $32.1 billion, a $2 billion increase over FY2015 levels. The NIH funds life-saving medical research at research hospitals and universities, including in the Puget Sound. Community Development Block Grants: $3 billion. ###
12.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would create a $622 billion hole in the federal deficit by extending dozens of tax credits without paying for them. While Larsen supports many of the tax credits in the bill, extending some and making others permanent with no plan to pay for them is fiscally irresponsible and undermines any effort to reform the tax code. “I cannot support this irresponsible bill that blows a $600 billion hole in our country’s budget while dodging a solution to the real problem of a dysfunctional tax code. The gains we get under this bill are wiped out by the $600 billion pain it will cost us and our children later. And the bigger our debt, the more we pay in interest, which takes money away from our schools, our veterans and our infrastructure. “Many of the tax credits in the bill the House passed today make important investments in education, research, clean energy and other priorities that I support. While I would like to see tax credits like these extended to encourage innovation and a strong economic foundation, that economic foundation gets shaky when we charge too much to our nation’s credit card with no way to pay those charges back. The U.S. tax code also badly needs an overhaul so it works better for hardworking middle-class families, but prolonging the status quo damages the chances of getting comprehensive tax reform done. “I want to see a tax code that encourages people to go to school, workers to put their time into innovative clean energy projects, and families to invest in their futures. Our country's budget deserves a balanced approach by matching changes in the tax code like these with savings found elsewhere. We can accomplish these goals while also maintaining fiscal responsibility by including these tax credits as part of a broader tax reform effort,” Larsen said The tax extender package that the House passed costs $622 billion over 10 years by extending more than 50 tax provisions, including making 22 provisions permanent. The bill does not include any offsets to cover these costs. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today released a report detailing ways the U.S. aviation system can more effectively respond to epidemics and other global health crises. Larsen requested that the Government Accountability Office study the preparedness of U.S. airports and airlines to handle the spread of an infectious disease during the emergence of the Ebola virus last fall. Larsen, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, wanted more information about a national response plan as an alternative to banning flights to the U.S. from countries experiencing contagious epidemics. During the Ebola outbreak, some called for flight bans, though medical experts, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, recommended against the strategy. Larsen will work on a solution in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization bill that brings together relevant federal agencies to develop a national plan to respond to infectious diseases within the aviation system. “In a world where nearly 3 billion people board planes each year, the U.S. aviation system must have a clear plan of action to handle infectious disease crises. Banning air travel is not a feasible or effective solution to an epidemic, which is why I want to see federal agencies develop a plan to share information quickly and respond to the threat of an infectious disease in our aviation system. With a smart strategy in place, we can keep people safe and maintain the flow of our air traffic,” Larsen said. Full text of the GAO report is available here. ###
12.11.2015	Larsen-led provisions to help small businesses export also included in bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. trade agreements will hold other countries to a higher standard of accountability because of provisions Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, pushed for in a trade enforcement bill (Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015) that the U.S. House passed today. Larsen championed a new trust fund to pay for enforcement actions against other countries that break trade rules. He also supported a provision to require quick action against countries engaging in unfair trading practices, as well as an office dedicated to ensuring other countries play by the rules or face consequences. Larsen voted in favor of the House version of the bill earlier this year and pointed out the even stronger measures to enforce trade agreements and help small businesses in the bill he supported today. Strong Enforcement “If other countries want to trade with us, they must play by the rules or face the consequences. The bill I voted for today creates for the first time a trust fund dedicated to enforcing trade deals. This fund is not just words on paper. It is real money, up to $30 million, to make sure our trading partners play fairly. “The bill also makes permanent an office dedicated specifically to enforcing trade agreements. The office has a strong track record since its inception in 2012, helping bring cases to the World Trade Organization (WTO) against countries like Argentina, China and India for unfair trade practices. Since 2009, the U.S. has brought 20 complaints to the WTO, more than any WTO member, and has won every case that has been decided so far. “With the new trust fund and more trade cops on the beat, the U.S. will be better equipped to track down and put a stop to countries that are creating an unfair playing field for our workers,” Larsen said. The bill: Establishes a trust fund to pay for the enforcement of trade agreements and requires the U.S. Treasury to transfer $15 million each year to the fund, which may have a balance of up to $30 million; Permanently establishes the Interagency Center on Trade Implementation, Monitoring and Enforcement in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to increase investigations and enforcement actions; and Establishes new requirements for U.S. Customs and Border Patrol to initiate investigations within 15 days of receiving a petition about allegations of unfairly traded goods and make a final determination within 210 days. Helping Small Businesses Larsen’s provisions to help small businesses export are also included in the bill: funding for the State Trade and Export Promotion, or STEP, program, and requirements for more coordinated, efficient assistance from the federal government to streamline trade resources for small businesses. “When we help our small businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. I fought hard for funding to do just that, and I am pleased this bill includes $30 million for the job-creating STEP program that has helped hundreds of small businesses in Washington state generate millions of dollars in sales. The new state trade coordination effort will enable small businesses to focus on growing their sales abroad, rather than navigating complicated federal bureaucracies,” Larsen said. The bill: Authorizes the STEP program to receive $30 million annually for FY2016 – FY2020. The program received $17.4 million in FY2015. Larsen has long championed the STEP program. Streamlines the federal agencies that play a role in trade promotion to provide more efficient, effective assistance to small businesses seeking to start exporting or grow their exports. Supporting Nepal Larsen also applauded a measure to aid Nepal in growing its economy through imports to the U.S., following an earthquake earlier this year that devastated the country. The Pacific Northwest is home to a vibrant Nepalese-American community. “Recovery from a massive natural disaster takes years, and the U.S. has a role to play in continuing to aid a country that lost thousands of people in April. I know many Nepalese in Washington state were affected by that quake, and I am pleased the bill will support this community,” Larsen said. Concerns While Larsen agreed with many provisions in the bill, he said there is more work to do to stop human trafficking, prevent currency manipulation and slow climate change. “No bill I have ever supported is perfect, and this one is no different. I have several concerns about this bill. “If other countries want access to the U.S. marketplace, they should not be engaged in deplorable practices like human trafficking. Our country needs to redouble its efforts to stop human trafficking. While I would like to have seen stronger safeguards in this bill for people in these dangerous situations, I see new enforcement tools and resources as a critical way to hold other countries accountable. “Unfair actions like currency manipulation stack the deck against our workers. I understand this bill does not go as far to stop currency manipulation as many would like, and I agree. The tools in this bill are only a small step toward curbing this unfair practice. “The Administration is fighting hard for a climate change agreement right now at the climate conference in Paris. I see a deal like the one negotiators are working on in Paris as a much more effective way to address climate change than a trade agreement,” Larsen said. ###
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Peter DeFazio, OR-04, and Eleanor Holmes Norton, DC, called for continued focus on improving bicyclist and pedestrian safety in response to the troubling increase in pedestrian and cyclist fatalities in recent years. The Members released a report today from the Government Accountability Office, which they requested to investigate the trends and causes of accidents involving pedestrians and bicycles and to make recommendations about improving safety. Among its findings, the report indicates that modernizing road design could help improve safety for all road users. It also finds that state and local safety efforts for pedestrians and bicyclists are inconsistent and could benefit from a federal initiative to unify safety projects. “Sidewalks, trails and bike lanes are critical to our transportation network, and the people who use them should be able to count on staying safe. I want to see rules from the Federal Highway Administration to encourage road design that improves safety for everyone, including the most vulnerable road users. The Obama administration recognizes the importance of this issue, with efforts like DOT's Safer People, Safer Streets initiative, but I want to see to more action that protects and encourages walkers and bikers,” Larsen said. “This report will help local and state governments identify ways to reverse the increase in cyclist and pedestrian fatalities in recent years. It cites challenges to addressing pedestrian and cyclist safety, including insufficient funding and roadway design standards that are skewed towards motorists. Communities across the country are adopting policies to reduce the number of traffic deaths and injuries on city streets. Much more must be done in order to truly move toward zero deaths, but through the FAST Act Congress has provided a strong signal that cyclist and pedestrian safety is a priority,” DeFazio said. “My city, the District of Columbia, has been a leader in designing and implementing transportation plans that encourage more pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Because D.C. has led in building bike lanes and trails, we are particularly appreciative of this GAO report, which recommends necessary steps to ensure safety for our pedestrians and cyclists. I was pleased we got increased funding for pedestrian and bicycle safety projects in our surface transportation reauthorization, but more needs to be done to reduce the unacceptable increase in pedestrian and cyclist fatalities,” Norton said. A link to the full GAO report is available here. Congress recently passed the FAST Act, a five-year transportation authorization bill that increases funding for sidewalks, bike lanes and trails from $819 million per year to $850 million by 2020. Larsen pushed successfully to maintain this funding. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the administration’s action to challenge the Chinese government on an unfair tax advantage that it provides to some of its domestic aviation manufacturers. The Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) announced it will bring a case at the World Trade Organization (WTO) because of a 17 percent tax the Chinese government imposes on small and medium-sized imported aircraft. “USTR’s decision to bring this case sends a strong and important message that the U.S. will not tolerate activities that put our workers and the businesses that employ them at an unfair disadvantage. Leveling the playing field is exactly why we have the World Trade Organization and rules of the road for international trade. “Small and medium-sized airplane manufacturing is a job-creating industry for the U.S. General aviation manufacturing supports 102,600 jobs in the U.S. and contributes $14 billion to our economy each year. Washington state is home to hundreds of aviation manufacturing suppliers, who make and sell parts to general aviation and regional jet manufacturers. These jobs suffer when countries like China subsidize their own products. “I am pleased to see USTR holding the Chinese government accountable, and I hope to see more cases like this to make sure our workers get a fair shot,” Larsen said. Larsen gave remarks at a press conference this morning. Watch his full remarks here. More information about the case USTR is bringing is available here. ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded a major bipartisan victory for jobs after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to reopen the Export-Import Bank. Larsen is a staunch supporter of the Bank, which provides export financing that helps businesses of all sizes in his district and across the country to grow by selling their goods overseas. “The next chapter of the Export-Import Bank’s job-creating success story is finally about to begin. Congress let down thousands of workers in the Pacific Northwest and nationwide by letting the Bank expire, but we are closer to making it up to them today by getting the Bank back open for business. “The Bank helps Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes create jobs here at home by selling their goods overseas. Earlier this year I toured Vista Clara, Inc., in Mukilteo, which manufactures equipment that does imaging in water, rock and soil formations. Vista Clara relies on the Export-Import Bank to finance sales of its products to customers all over the world, and the Bank has helped this small business grow by breaking into new markets in India and China. “Congress should be doing everything possible to support jobs and a healthy economy to create more opportunity. Reopening the Export-Import Bank signals to the rest of the world that the U.S. is open for business,” Larsen said. The renewal was included in a long-term transportation bill. The Bank expired on June 30, halting all new export financing for U.S. businesses of all sizes. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year. He also led efforts to renew the Bank in 2012. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $77 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 18 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank’s transactions support small businesses. And because nearly 60 other countries have export credit agencies, the Export-Import Bank helps level the playing field for U.S. businesses. ###
12.03.2015	Several Larsen-led provisions included in final bill advance Washington state’s transportation priorities WASHINGTON, D.C.—The five-year, job-creating transportation bill the U.S. House of Representatives passed today includes several provisions championed by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, that will improve Washington state’s transportation infrastructure. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, hailed the long-term transportation bill (known as the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation, or FAST, Act) as a win for Pacific Northwest jobs and the economy that will give communities the certainty needed to invest in critical infrastructure projects. Washington state is set to receive a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding over the life of the bill, an increase over current funding of $437 million. “Job-creating investments in our roads, bridges, highways, ferries, trails and transit got the green light today with a long-term transportation bill that will put people to work and keep our economy moving. Transportation means jobs in Washington state, which is why I pushed hard to make sure this bill included Pacific Northwest priorities. “With five years of funding, cities, counties and states will finally be able to count on reliable funding to build up and fix the infrastructure people depend on every day to get to work and school. I would have liked to see a bigger overall investment in one of the best job-creating industries we have, but I am pleased the final version of the bill boosts funding by $12 billion over current levels. “When I talk with transportation stakeholders in Washington state, I hear about the issues they are facing every day. From ferryboats, which are an extension of our highway system, to trails and better funding for midsized cities, I pushed for our state’s priorities. The bill includes my language to improve the financial accountability of ferry systems and eliminate the loophole allowing private ferry programs to receive public dollars. These changes that I championed will help our ferry system in Washington state that serves as a lifeline for thousands of people. “Sidewalks, trails and bike lanes are critical to our transportation network. I fought successfully to increase funding for the infrastructure that bikers and walkers count on and that will continue encouraging bikes and legs as mainstream ways to travel. “Smaller cities in my district like Mountlake Terrace and Anacortes and those around the country often struggle competing for federal transportation dollars because they do not have the same resources as big cities like Chicago and New York. Streamlined access to a popular transportation loan program that I pushed for will help these midsized cities access the big-time funds they need. Midsized cities also have access to new funding for projects that will help move goods more efficiently. “The transportation bill also includes a reauthorization of the job-creating Export-Import Bank. Thousands of workers in Northwest Washington and across the country have been counting on Congress to do the right thing and get the Bank back open for businesses. While Congress never should have allowed the bank to expire in the first place, action today to reopen the bank is a major victory for jobs. “My top priority is creating jobs and investing in the foundation of long-term economic growth in the Pacific Northwest. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. This long-term transportation bill will help our country make the right investments to keep our economy moving,” Larsen said. A summary of the bill is available here. Information about highway funding levels is available here, and transit funding levels are available here. Funding level The final bill authorizes $305.1 billion over five years for surface transportation programs, including roads, bridges, ferries, rail and transit. Washington state will receive a total of $3.5 billion in highway funding and $1.2 billion in transit funding over the life of the bill, an increase over current funding of $437 million across the five-year lifespan of the bill. Ferries Ferries will receive increased funding nationwide, with Washington state receiving an additional $2 million yearly for ferry investment, for a total of $17.9 million annually. Larsen pushed for more financial accountability for ferry boat funding, which could help the ferry system in Washington state. The bill includes Larsen’s language to rescind and redistribute money that ferry systems have not used within three years of the allocation. The bill also includes language that Larsen championed to prohibit private ferry systems from receiving public ferry funding. Midsized Cities Midsized cities often have trouble competing for federal transportation grants because they do not have the same resources as larger cities. Larsen had planned to make it easier for midsized cities to access the TIGER Grant program, but the bill does not reauthorize that program. To achieve a similar goal, Larsen successfully pushed to streamline access to a popular federal transportation loan program for smaller projects. Larsen’s amendment to the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program was included in the final bill and will expedite applications for TIFIA loans that are less than $100 million, reducing administrative burdens for smaller cities and counties. Watch Larsen’s speech on the House floor here. The final bill also includes funds specifically for cities with fewer than 250,000 people to pay for freight improvements. Bike and Pedestrian Infrastructure Larsen has led efforts to maintain funding for investments in infrastructure for bicyclists and pedestrians. The bill increases funding for sidewalks, bike lanes and trails from $819 million per year to $850 million by 2020. Funding for Public Buses Larsen worked with Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) to increase funding for bus and bus facilities in Washington state in the House version of the bill. The final bill includes a 75 percent increase over current levels in funding for buses and bus facilities, helping Community Transit and Whatcom Transit Authority maintain and purchase buses for their systems and improving reliability for bus commuters. Bridges Bridge safety has long been a priority for Larsen, and this bill makes funding more available for smaller bridges that are not part of the National Highway System. Rail Safety In response to constituents’ concerns about the safety of crude oil traveling by rail, Larsen has pressed for higher standards for these trains to keep communities safe. The bill requires improvements to the caps on older tank cars to reduce pressure and the potential for explosion in case of an accident. Larsen also has pushed to direct money to improving rail crossings. The bill creates new programs that could fund at-grade crossing improvements, including: A formula program for states to improve at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus spending bill includes $350 million in funding. Competitive and formula funding for nationally significant freight mobility projects, including at-grade crossings. The competitive program starts at $800 billion in FY2016 and ramps up to $1 billion in FY2020. Projects eligible under this program are meant to be regionally significant and have costs of more than $100 million. However, up to 10 percent of funding can be used on smaller projects, including planning and design work, with a cost of more than $5 million. Additionally, 25 percent of funding is reserved for areas with a population of 200,000 people or less. The formula program starts at $1.1 billion in FY2016 and will be distributed to all states. A competitive grant program for rail infrastructure and safety improvements, including at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus directs $25 million to this program. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a major education reform bill that includes Larsen’s bipartisan language to provide payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and tribes. Earlier this year, Larsen introduced the Local Taxpayer Relief Act (H.R. 1318) in support of Impact Aid. The Every Student Succeeds Act (the conference report to S. 1177) replaces the flawed standards of No Child Left Behind by giving states more flexibility to craft education solutions tailored to local community needs. The bill also maintains funding for low-income schools and districts, as well as requiring higher standards to improve outcomes for all students, including those with learning challenges. Larsen has long championed the Impact Aid program, which makes up the difference in revenue for districts that serve large numbers of federally-connected students. The majority of public school funding comes from local property taxes. Since families on military bases and on Indian lands do not pay local property taxes, schools with a large percentage of these students are denied the traditional funding source for public schools. Impact Aid provides direct payments to these school districts, including those in La Conner, Marysville and Oak Harbor. “Impact Aid keeps teachers and textbooks in the classroom to give our students the best chance at success. Communities like La Conner, Marysville and Oak Harbor depend on Impact Aid to provide their students with the learning opportunities they deserve, which is why I have pushed hard to keep Impact Aid strong. Today, Congress recognized the importance of supporting school districts like these all over the country. Bigger, more certain Impact Aid payments mean school districts can better focus on what they do best – educating our students,” Larsen said. The Every Student Succeeds Act increases funding for Impact Aid by $100 million through FY2020, to $1.3 billion annually (a 7.8 percent increase). It also includes the following Larsen provisions: Makes permanent language that ensures on-time Impact Aid payments to school districts; Lowers the threshold of federally-connected students that makes a district eligible from 50 percent of students to 45 percent; and Continues to payments for districts that experience a sudden and significant drop in the number of federally-connected students, such as when personnel are transferred between military bases. Larsen also cheered the replacement of broken No Child Left Behind standards, giving states the ability to focus on specific community needs while holding states accountable for improving outcomes for all students. “Students, teachers and families in Washington state and across the country have waited too long for Congress to fix the flawed No Child Left Behind standards. Today, our hardworking students and dedicated teachers and administrators are much closer to getting the support they deserve to learn, innovate and succeed. “The bill I voted for today maintains funding for schools that serve high numbers of low-income students. And it requires states to offer a high-quality education to all students, including those facing challenges such as poverty, disabilities, or those learning English for the first time. “Federal law should promote innovation like the robotics and aerospace projects I have seen in our classrooms. And it should promote efforts to prepare all students for college and career, like those happening in Washington state. That is why I am pleased to support reforms that put progress of our students first,” Larsen said. Larsen called for Congress to reauthorize and update the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, also known as the No Child Left Behind Act, last summer, in light of the U.S. Department of Education’s decision to revoke Washington state’s waiver from the law, which means schools and student test scores must be evaluated under the flawed NCLB standards. A one-page fact sheet about the bill is available here. A more detailed fact sheet is available here. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today led a bipartisan group of U.S. House members in urging the administration to provide adequate funding for small ports in its FY 2017 budget. Small ports are economic drivers for communities along the West Coast, but they have been underfunded in recent years. In Larsen’s district, small ports like the Ports of Skagit and Bellingham create jobs and economic activity in a number of sectors, from fishing and shipbuilding to manufacturing and recreation. In their letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan, the members called for the federal government to fulfill its responsibility to help keep these job-creating ports open for business. “These small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs in these states. Commercial trading and fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon and Washington coastal port communities and to our states, region and nation,” the members wrote. “Leaving our small port needs unmet threatens the jobs of our citizens and weakens our national economic competitiveness.” Full text of the letter follows. December 2, 2015 Mr. Shaun Donovan Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Mr. Donovan: As you develop your FY 2017 budget proposal, we ask that you address the needs of small coastal waterways in the Pacific Northwest. These small ports and harbors are some of our nation’s most valuable assets and critical to maintaining and creating jobs in these states. Commercial trading and fishing and recreational boating at these small ports is critically important to the economic health of Oregon and Washington coastal port communities and to our states, region and nation. These federal commercial navigation projects are routinely overlooked and remain critically underfunded. We are disappointed that in recent years, most of the small ports on our coasts were completely zeroed out in the administration’s budget. Even with the mandatory minimum funding allocation for small ports in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA), many Northwest “emerging harbors” were left unfunded in the FY 2016 budget proposal. Congress has been clear about its support for these small ports by increasing Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) expenditures. We urge you, at a minimum, to reach the overall target for HMTF expenditures set forth in WRRDA and to allocate no less than 10 percent of maintenance dredging funds to meet the critical needs of small ports in the Northwest and throughout the nation. Congress has shown its commitment to these navigation projects by providing programmatic funding pots each year. It is imperative for the Administration to show its commitment now and fund these small ports in the FY 2017 budget proposal. Without adequate funding, the navigation channels leading to these ports will silt in and the jetties protecting these communities will crumble. Ports provide employment for a significant proportion of these communities. Without access to the ports and the open ocean, the main economic driver in these communities is gone. It is important to give certainty and support to these small communities. We believe it is the responsibility of the federal government to ensure that our coastal ports in Oregon and Washington, and throughout the nation, remain open for business and continue to contribute to the economic health of the U.S. Leaving our small port needs unmet threatens the jobs of our citizens and weakens our national economic competitiveness. We thank you for your consideration and efforts and look forward to working with you to address this issue. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Greg Walden Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Dave Reichert Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Dan Newhouse Member of Congress ###
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today slammed House Republicans for undermining U.S. efforts to fight climate change, particularly as leaders from around the world gather in Paris to work toward a climate change agreement. Larsen voted against two resolutions that would put a stop to the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, which Larsen supports and is a centerpiece of the President’s efforts to curb U.S. greenhouse gas emissions. “Forging a worldwide agreement to slow the effects of climate change is hard enough without House Republicans actively working against these critical, global efforts. The resolutions I voted against today would slam the brakes on the administration’s Clean Power Plan, while handcuffing the EPA’s ability to do its job under the Clean Air Act. “If we are going to tackle our country’s greenhouse gas emissions, we have to increase renewable energy sources, improve energy efficiency and invest in lower-emission fuels. That is why I support President Obama’s commitment to reducing U.S. carbon emissions and his Clean Power Plan. I was pleased the President announced this plan jointly with Chinese President Xi Jinping, who also has committed to slowing his country’s greenhouse gas emissions. Leadership by the world’s two largest emitters is vital if the world is going to bend the curve on damaging emissions,” Larsen said. ###
11.20.2015	Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, recently held a series of public meetings to hear his constituents’ thoughts and questions about the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement. The administration released the full text of the TPP on November 5. You can read it here. Read more about Larsen’s TPP meetings in the local news coverage below. Everett Herald: Rep. Larsen seeks input on Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact Congressman Rick Larsen is doing something this week his congressional colleagues from Washington and around the country are not. He’s talking about the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, a mega-pact negotiated by the administration of President Barack Obama with 11 Asian and Pacific Rim nations. Skagit Valley Herald: Rep. Larsen takes public comment on Trans-Pacific Partnership About 100 attended a town hall meeting Tuesday night held by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., to present their opinions on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement…Larsen said he was happy with the turnout and for the chance to have a dialogue with constituents. He said many of the questions he had about the agreement were echoed by the public. Anacortes American: Residents express concerns about proposed trade agreement at Rep. Larsen’s town hall meetings With an international trade agreement that purportedly aims to level the playing field for American businesses awaiting action from Congress, some Anacortes residents took the opportunity to express their thoughts and concerns to U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen last week when he held a meeting with constituents at City Hall. South Whidbey Record: Worry about jobs, environment with trade deal, crowd tells congressman Protecting American jobs and the planet’s environment were some of the top concerns voiced at a town hall meeting in Clinton on Saturday. Hosted by Congressman Rick Larsen, the meeting was one of a series the 2nd district Democrat organized around the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The Journal of the San Juan Islands: Rep. Rick Larsen talks Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement in visit to San Juan Island Congressman Rick Larsen came to San Juan Island to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a proposed trade agreement between 12 Pacific Rim countries that make up 40 percent of the world’s economy… “It becomes a creature of the constitution, therefore it is subject to any constraints of the constitution,” Larsen said. South Whidbey Record: EDITORIAL │ Being accessible is important Actions speak louder than words, and no person is an island – both are common American proverbs that are pretty self explanatory. They remind us that respect is earned, and no one, even the very powerful, can go it alone… [Rep. Larsen] recently held a series of public meetings on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the last of which was in little old Clinton – a tiny corner of the 2nd Congressional District. By itself, a few town hall meetings are nothing to get worked up about. Elected officials are supposed to ask us what we think. But, this is common for Larsen, who’s something of a regular on the South End. According to his office, in the past three years alone he’s met with constituents, visited businesses or organizations, vetted proposed policy or checked in with voters at in-person meetings or town halls a total of 23 times. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today about accepting refugees from Syria who are fleeing violence and persecution. In voting against H.R. 4038, a bill that effectively halts Syrian refugees from entering the U.S., Larsen reiterated that keeping the American people safe is his top priority, and stated that denying refuge to Syrians plays into ISIL’s hands while betraying American values. “In the aftermath of the terrible ISIL-driven attacks in Paris, some have called on the United States to shut down any effort to admit Syrian refugees. I understand the fear that people feel, and I share their concern for our national security. We must take smart, decisive action to prevent terrorist attacks on American soil. “The U.S. should continue to show its strength by taking the fight to ISIL. Through airstrikes and support for forces in the region, including the Iraqi military and the Kurds, we have shrunk the territory ISIL has held by 20 percent to 25 percent. We have done this through working with an international coalition to conduct airstrikes against ISIL leadership, convoys and logistics operations, as well as through coordinated sharing of intelligence and other information about ISIL’s membership and activities. “But military action only goes so far, and we should also be worried about giving ISIL the chance to say ‘I told you so.’ By shutting out Syrian refugees, ISIL can claim that Muslims are not welcome in the United States. Handing ISIL a propaganda victory like this gives them another recruiting tool, creating a serious national security concern. Fear is an understandable response to terror and violence. I hear that concern, and I am addressing it by voting against a bill that plays into ISIL’s hands. “The process a refugee must go through to enter our country is the most stringent for any traveler seeking to cross our borders. Refugees must go through rigorous security screenings that involve the National Counterterrorism Center, the FBI Terrorist Screening Center, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State and the Department of Defense. Only after clearing all of these departments will refugees be allowed to come to our country. Because it is so thorough, this process usually takes 18 to 24 months. And in contrast to European nations, our vetting process must be complete before a refugee can travel here. “The Statue of Liberty is more than a tourist attraction. The icon is an important symbol of American power, and the words on the statue beckoning the world’s tired, poor, huddled masses convey what is exceptional about our country. We can live up to those words while also addressing legitimate security concerns. “Yes, we should be concerned about the jihadist extremism that ISIL promotes, and we should take strong military action to attack it and help our allies with intelligence and other tools. We should take equally strong action to undermine ISIL’s terror by living up to American values and helping those fleeing the violence that ISIL and Syria’s government have created. We have the knowledge and vetting processes in place to welcome people who have lost their homes and are seeking the same things we all want: hope, dignity and opportunity for our families,” Larsen said. Since 2011, about 2,070 Syrian refugees have been admitted to the United States. A quarter of these refugees are adults over 60, and half are children. Many religious groups have maintained their support for bringing Syrian refugees to the U.S., including the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Episcopal Church, Methodist leaders and Jewish groups such as the Anti-Defamation League. ###
11.18.2015	Larsen is a member of the committee negotiating a final transportation bill. WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, delivered the following statement at a meeting of the House and Senate members who are negotiating a final transportation bill. Larsen is working to include Washington state’s transportation priorities in the final version of the bill. Watch Larsen’s opening remarks here. Larsen’s remarks below are as prepared for delivery. Thank you Mr. Chairman. In Washington state, transportation means jobs. Investing in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems puts people to work and keeps our economy moving. When I talk with my constituents in Washington state, I hear about the somewhat unique issues they face every day. One of those issues is adequate funding for ferryboats. Ferries are a lifeline in our state, not a luxury. Thousands of people in my district, and throughout the country, use ferries every day to get to work, school and medical appointments. I hope we can agree that additional funding for the ferry system is a key part of a final agreement, particularly if there is a move to change the funding formulas within the ferry program. I also hope we’ll ensure ferry funding is spent in a timely manner, and that we eliminate the loophole allowing private ferry programs to receive public dollars. Another major issue I hear about in my district is that smaller and midsized cities have trouble competing with bigger cities for federal resources. The House bill includes language I authored that creates an expedited application process for smaller, low-risk projects that want to use TIFIA financing. The Senate package includes additional TIFIA reforms that I believe will help smaller cities in my district and across the country compete for federal aid. These reforms will also help bike and pedestrian projects compete for TIFIA funding. Sidewalks, trails and bike lanes are critical to our transportation network. Less than 2 percent of federal transportation funding goes to the Transportation Alternatives Program, which funds bike and pedestrian projects. But communities leverage these small funds to get big results. I hope you will agree that we must protect this funding in the final bill, as we did in both the House and Senate bills. Transit is another critical part of the transportation network in my district. People depend on buses and bus infrastructure to get to work and school each day. I support the changes made in the House bill to require competition nationally for transit funding. Finally, I appreciate that both bills improve the safety of crude oil traveling by rail and our bridge infrastructure. I hope we’ll continue to push forward on both of those issues, which are hugely important in my district. Thank you for your leadership Mr. Chairman, and thank you for the opportunity to weigh in on these issues. I yield back. ###
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after President Obama announced that Billy Frank, Jr., will receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Frank was a member of the Nisqually tribe and a fierce advocate for Washington state’s tribes and the environment. “Washington state’s tribes and our environment are stronger because of Billy’s fierce and tireless advocacy. His decades of leadership leave a legacy of more robust treaty rights and healthier habitats to sustain salmon populations today and long into the future. Honoring Billy’s diligent commitment with the Medal of Freedom rightly recognizes the lasting impact of his work in the Pacific Northwest and nationwide,” Larsen said. The Medal of Freedom is the highest honor given to civilians. The awards will be presented on November 24. ###
11.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded a federal grant for a Snohomish County organization to prevent homelessness among veterans. The Housing Authority of Snohomish County (HASCO) received $154,850 in project-based vouchers through the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. Veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH program contribute no more than 30 percent of their own income toward rent and the remaining balance is paid by the grant to the property owners. “Sadly, many veterans in my district struggle with homelessness. Even as we honor our veterans this Veterans Day, I want to make sure veterans have roofs over their heads every day of the year. I am a strong supporter of the HUD-VASH program, which has helped many veterans get on the path to independence. This grant will continue to support veterans in need as they transition out of homelessness and into stability,” Larsen said. HASCO was established in 1971 to increase affordable housing in Snohomish County. HASCO is a long-time recipient of HUD-VASH grants, including a grant to house 12 veterans experiencing homelessness earlier this year. The 20 housing units funded with this new grant brings HASCO’s total number of HUD-VASH vouchers to 219. This program also matches veterans with other support and services they may need as they transition out of homelessness. Larsen also announced a bill earlier this week that would expand benefits through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to veterans who are unable to conceive children because of service-related injuries. ###
11.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Veterans who sustained injuries during their military service that prevent them from conceiving children will get access to advanced fertility treatments and adoption assistance if Congress passes a bill announced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. Larsen announced the bill in advance of Veterans Day. The Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015 would give veterans with service-connected disabilities access to in vitro fertilization and adoption assistance. A recent study by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) found that 15.8 percent of female and 13.8 percent of male Iraq and Afghanistan veterans report they are not able to conceive children. The bill would also expand services specifically designed for the care of women veterans. “Veterans who finished their service to our country unable to conceive children because of injuries should get the care and support they need to start a family. The challenges that veterans with service-connected disabilities face are already enormous. They should not have to empty out their bank accounts to achieve their dreams of starting a family. This bill addresses one of the most common disabilities associated with service in combat by giving veterans access to the reproductive health care and family planning options they need,” Larsen said. The Department of Defense already covers in vitro fertilization for active duty service members and retirees, but the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) does not provide the coverage for veterans. “This bill also improves VA services for women veterans,” Larsen added. “As more women serve in combat roles, these improvements are all the more necessary to make sure the VA is meeting the needs of all our veterans.” The Veterans of Foreign Wars is supporting the Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015, noting the strides it makes to address the inequity of fertility options between service members and veterans. “This important legislation would expand fertility treatments afforded to service members and veterans who have lost their ability to have children as a direct result of their service-connected injuries,” said Raymond C. Kelley, director of the VFW National Legislative Service. Advocates for women and men living with infertility issues also support the bill. “Starting a family already is too difficult for veterans who sustained injuries during their service,” said Barbara Collura, president and CEO for RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association. “But outdated rules make starting a family even harder by depriving veterans of access to the reproductive services they need. Congressman Larsen’s bill will help ensure veterans with service-connected disabilities have the opportunity to start the family they always dreamed of. RESOLVE strongly supports this legislation and urges Congress to pass the bill in support of our veterans.” “The Women Veterans and Families Health Services Act of 2015 would allow wounded warriors to access a fertility treatment that might otherwise be out of reach due to prohibitive costs,” said the executive director for the National Military Family Association, Joyce Wessel Raezer. “Given the sacrifices these wounded warriors and their families have made, we believe it is incumbent on our nation to make every effort to restore their reproductive capabilities.” Senator Patty Murray introduced the bill in the Senate earlier this year. A summary of the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. The following members are cosponsors of the House bill: Judy Chu, CA-32; Suzan DelBene, WA-01; Tammy Duckworth, IL-08; Raul Grijalva, AZ-03; Sheila Jackson Lee, TX-18; Alan Lowenthal, CA-47; Sean Patrick Maloney, NY-18; Betty McCollum, MN-04; Bobby Rush, IL-01; Dina Titus, NV-01. Larsen recently held a series of six roundtables with veterans in the Second Congressional District. Read more about the events here. ###
11.05.2015	Larsen successfully pushed for language that helps Washington state ferries, bike and pedestrian infrastructure, public buses. Larsen’s provision to help midsized cities access federal transportation resources also included. WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a long-term surface transportation bill that includes language Larsen pushed for to invest in ferries and infrastructure for bikes and pedestrians, as well as to help midsized cities access federal transportation resources. The bill includes three years of funding for surface transportation, the longest transportation authorization the House has passed in a decade. The House and Senate will now work out their differences on their respective versions of the bill, H.R. 22, the DRIVE Act. Larsen will be a member of the conference committee. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. Investing in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems puts people to work and keeps our economy moving. This long-term transportation bill will help ensure our cities, counties and states can count on the transportation funding they need to repair and upgrade their transportation infrastructure. While I am disappointed the bill does not make a bigger investment overall, I pushed to make sure this long-term bill includes support for Washington state’s transportation priorities. Going forward, I believe a reasonable increase in the gas tax, along with the study and development of a consensus vehicle miles traveled fee can fix our transportation funding crisis. “When I talk with transportation stakeholders in Washington state, I hear about the issues they are facing every day. Ferries are a lifeline in our state, not a luxury. Ferries are an extension of our highway system, and Washington state has the largest public ferry system in the country. Thousands of people use ferries every day to get to work, school and medical appointments. The bill includes my language that improves the financial accountability of ferry systems, which will help our ferry system in Washington state. We should be spending taxpayer dollars wisely and in a timely fashion. In conference, I will push to ensure public ferry dollars stay with public ferry systems. “I have heard from midsized cities in my district that they often struggle competing for federal transportation dollars because they do not have the same resources as big cities like Chicago and New York. I have long pushed to help medium-sized cities land the big-time funds they need to repair and build up their roads. I worked successfully to include language in this bill that will streamline the application process for the popular TIFIA loan program for smaller transportation projects. Midsized cities should not be scared off from this critical funding because of high administrative hurdles. “Sidewalks, trails and bike lanes are critical to our transportation network. Less than 2 percent of federal transportation funding goes to the Transportation Alternatives Program, which funds bike and pedestrian projects. But communities leverage these small funds to get big results. I fought successfully to maintain funding for this program in the bill, and I will keep pushing for strong bike and pedestrian infrastructure. “The transportation bill also includes a reauthorization of the job-creating Export-Import Bank. I voted against amendments that would have hurt the Bank’s reauthorization chances. I am pleased the House maintained the integrity of the Export-Import Bank renewal that we already passed, so we can get the Bank back open for business as soon as possible. “My top priority is creating jobs and investing in the foundation of long-term economic growth in the Pacific Northwest. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. This long-term transportation bill will help our country make the right investments to keep our economy moving,” Larsen said. Funding level: One problem with the bill is that it does not include enough sources of funding to fully pay for itself. While the bill authorizes $325 billion in spending on important surface transportation programs over six years, the only concrete funding source for it is the gas tax. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the gas tax will bring in about $240 billion between 2016 and 2022, leaving a gap that still needs to be fixed. Ferries: Larsen pushed for more financial accountability for ferry boat funding, which could help the ferry system in Washington state. The bill included Larsen’s language to rescind and redistribute money that ferry systems have not used within three years of the allocation. Midsized Cities: Midsized cities often have trouble competing for federal transportation grants because they do not have the same resources as larger cities. Larsen had planned to make it easier for midsized cities to access the TIGER Grant program, but the bill does not reauthorize that program. To achieve a similar goal, Larsen successfully pushed to streamline access to a popular federal transportation loan program for smaller projects. Larsen’s amendment to the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) program was included in the bill and will expedite applications for TIFIA loans that are less than $100 million, reducing administrative burdens for smaller cities and counties. Watch Larsen’s speech on the House floor here. Bike and Pedestrian Infrastructure: Larsen has led efforts to maintain funding for a popular program that supports community investments in infrastructure for bicyclists and pedestrians. The bill sustains the Transportation Alternatives Program, which communities use for sidewalks, bike lanes and trails. Funding for Public Buses: Larsen worked with Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) to increase funding for bus and bus facilities in Washington state by redistributing funding from an earmarked program that only seven East Coast states currently enjoy. The amendment makes funding available to bus programs throughout the country, helping Community Transit and Whatcom Transit Authority maintain and purchase buses for their systems and potentially improving reliability for bus commuters. Bridges: Bridge safety has long been a priority for Larsen, and this bill makes funding more available for smaller bridges that are not part of the National Highway System. Rail Safety: In response to constituents’ concerns about the safety of crude oil traveling by rail, Larsen has pressed for higher standards for these trains to keep communities safe. The bill requires improvements to the caps on older tank cars to reduce pressure and the potential for explosion in case of an accident. Larsen also has pushed to direct money to improving rail crossings, where rail incidents are most likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. The bill creates new programs that could fund at-grade crossing improvements, including: A formula program for states to improve at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus spending bill includes $350 million in funding. Competitive and formula funding for nationally significant freight mobility projects, including at-grade crossings. The competitive program starts at $800 billion in FY2016 and ramps up to $1 billion in FY2020. Projects eligible under this program are meant to be regionally significant and have costs of more than $100 million. However, up to 10 percent of funding can be used on smaller projects, including planning and design work, with a cost of more than $5 million. Additionally, 25 percent of funding is reserved for areas with a population of 200,000 people or less. The formula program starts at $1.1 billion in FY2016 and will be distributed to all states. A competitive grant program for rail infrastructure and safety improvements, including at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus directs $25 million to this program. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today continued his efforts to renew the job-creating Export-Import Bank by pledging to vote against amendments that would hurt the Bank’s reauthorization chances. The U.S. House of Representatives this week is debating a long-term surface transportation bill, which includes the recently passed bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. “I have evaluated amendments to the Export-Import Bank renewal that is before the House this week, and I will vote against them. The House should maintain the integrity of the Export-Import Bank renewal that we already passed. The amendments the House is considering would only hold up the unacceptably long road to renewal the Bank has already faced. “The Export-Import Bank is a proven job-creating success story. The Bank helps Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes create jobs here at home by selling their goods overseas. Thousands of workers in Northwest Washington and across the country are counting on Congress to do the right thing and get the Export-Import Bank reauthorized. While Congress never should have allowed the Export-Import Bank to expire in the first place, we can keep America open for business by getting the job done now. “I have heard from hundreds of constituents and workers, including the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, about their support for reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank. I agree that we cannot lose any more of the economic opportunities than we already have because of the Bank’s expiration four months ago. By voting against amendments to the Export-Import Bank renewal, I am pushing to get the Bank back open for business as soon as possible,” Larsen said. The Bank expired on June 30, halting all new export financing for U.S. businesses of all sizes. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year. He also led efforts to renew the Bank in 2012. The House passed a bill to reauthorize the Bank on October 27. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $77 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 18 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank’s transactions support small businesses. And because nearly 60 other countries have export credit agencies, the Export-Import Bank helps level the playing field for U.S. businesses. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today opposing an amendment that would cut pay for workers on federally-funded public works projects. Larsen said he stands with workers and will vote against the amendment that undermines the Davis-Bacon Act requirement that federal contractors pay local prevailing wages. “For more than 75 years, the Davis-Bacon Act has been protecting middle class families and taxpayers. As a son of a union worker in Snohomish County, I know how important prevailing wages can be for middle class families. “A prevailing wage is not necessarily a union wage – it is set by the U.S. Department of Labor after surveying local labor. But it is a living wage, one that has helped build middle class economies in places like Everett and Lynnwood. “Davis-Bacon standards also ensure that taxpayers are getting their money’s worth when it comes to construction projects. By paying a decent wage, Davis-Bacon projects are built by more experienced and more productive construction workers. The result is better built, longer lasting projects that save money over their lifetime, which is important because poor and crumbling infrastructure hurts everyone. “We should not cut corners when it comes to our transportation infrastructure, and we should not cut corners when it comes to hiring construction workers. Workers deserve to be paid fair wages, and I will continue my longstanding support for the Davis-Bacon Act,” Larsen said. The amendment would apply to funding for construction projects in H.R. 22, the DRIVE Act, a surface transportation bill that the U.S. House is currently debating. ###
11.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Ranking Member Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administrator Michael Huerta outlining their top priorities in establishing a national registry for unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). A federal task force organized by the FAA was announced in October with a goal of having recommendations prepared for mid-December. The task force held its first meeting yesterday. “The government and industry task force the Department of Transportation launched last month to consider how best to institute a recreational UAS registration requirement is an important step forward for safety. We believe that aircraft registration is an important part of a comprehensive safety solution. The following four issues are our top priorities to be addressed in the registration process, and we ask that the task force consider them as it develops its recommendations,” reads the letter from Chairman LoBiondo and Ranking Member Larsen. The full text of the letter to FAA Administrator Huerta is as follows: November 4, 2015 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration Dear Administrator Huerta: We appreciate your continued efforts and work with the House Aviation Subcommittee to safely integrate unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) into the National Airspace. The government and industry task force the Department of Transportation launched last month to consider how best to institute a recreational UAS registration requirement is an important step forward for safety. We believe that aircraft registration is an important part of a comprehensive safety solution. The following four issues are our top priorities to be addressed in the registration process, and we ask that the task force consider them as it develops its recommendations. 1. Streamlined Process: The registration process should be entirely accessible to ordinary consumers who are becoming users of the airspace for the first time. Keeping the process simple will promote participation. 2. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Access to Data: A key purpose of registration is to create a long-term deterrent to unauthorized UAS operations by establishing a means for detecting and prosecuting those who violate the law. In order for this approach to be effective, we believe the FAA must have access to the data regardless of whether a public or private entity operates the registry just as the agency has access to registration data of manned aircraft today. 3. Education and Training: The registration process should include a knowledge or training component to ensure that consumers are made aware of the federal aviation laws and the consequences of violating them. The FAA’s Know Before You Fly campaign is a good start, but may not reach the entire new massive consumer drone market. The task force should examine what further education and public outreach efforts should be made. 4. Incentives for Consumers to Register: Requiring registration as a prerequisite to receive software updates and other improvements from manufacturers may incentivize consumers to register their UAS. Thank you again for your focus on safely integrating unmanned aircraft. We look forward to continuing to work with you as we move forward with FAA Reauthorization legislation. Sincerely, ###
11.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is inviting constituents to join him for public meetings about the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement and other issues that are important to people in Northwest Washington. Larsen wants to hear constituents’ thoughts and questions about the TPP, a trade agreement between the U.S. and 11 other countries. He also will take questions about other issues that are on constituents’ minds. The administration released the final text of the TPP earlier today, and it is available here. Residents of the Second Congressional District and press are invited to attend. Anacortes – Tuesday, November 10 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Anacortes City Hall 904 6th Street Bellingham – Friday, November 13 5:30 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. Bellingham City Hall 210 Lottie Street Lynnwood – Saturday, November 14 9:30 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. Lynnwood High School Theater 18218 North Road Clinton – Saturday, November 14 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Clinton Community Hall 6411 South Central Avenue Friday Harbor – Sunday, November 15 11:15 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. San Juan Island Grange 152 First Street North ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to fund the federal government for two years and suspend the debt limit until March 2017. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 keeps the government working for families in the Pacific Northwest, Larsen said in the following statement about the budget agreement. “Hardworking families in Northwest Washington deserve a government that supports jobs and opportunity. The House did right by the people today by passing a budget that keeps the government working for the people. “I am fighting in Congress to make investments that grow our economy and help people participate fully in their communities, issues I hear about from my constituents. That is why I have long pushed to end the damaging, across-the-board spending cuts that have threatened investments that families across Northwest Washington depend on, from Head Start programs in Skagit County to housing for low-income veterans on Whidbey Island to meals for seniors in Snohomish County. The bipartisan budget agreement rolls back harmful sequester cuts and raises investments in defense and domestic priorities equally. “I am adamant about supporting seniors and vulnerable members of our communities, which is why I am pleased the budget agreement prevents steep Medicare cost increases and provides support to people with disabilities. “The agreement also prevents our country from defaulting on its debts, because America pays its bills. “A budget should reflect our country’s value of shared opportunity for all. While this budget is not perfect, it is a compromise that I hope can move Congress beyond manufactured crises and shutdown politics. Hardworking families are depending on Congress to get this done,” Larsen said. Several national organizations support the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, including AARP, the National Association of County and City Health Officials, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, the National Education Association, AFL-CIO and the League of Conservation Voters. A fact sheet about the budget agreement is available here. ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today joined with a majority of members of the U.S. House of Representatives in a vote to renew the job-creating Export-Import Bank. Larsen, who is a staunch supporter of the Bank, cheered passage of the four-year renewal (H.R. 597) and called on the Senate to act quickly on the bill. “Today’s vote to renew the Export-Import Bank is a major bipartisan victory for jobs,” Larsen said. “The Bank helps Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes create jobs here at home by selling their goods overseas. Earlier this year I toured Vista Clara, Inc., in Mukilteo, which manufactures equipment that does imaging in water, rock and soil formations. Vista Clara relies on the Export-Import Bank to finance sales of its products to customers all over the world, and the Bank has helped this small business grow by breaking into new markets in India and China.” “Thousands of workers in Northwest Washington and across the country are counting on Congress to do the right thing and get the Ex-Im Bank reauthorized. While Congress never should have allowed the Ex-Im Bank to expire in the first place, we can keep America open for business by getting the job done now. If we want a healthy economy, our country cannot afford to lose the jobs and growth the Export-Import Bank creates,” Larsen said. The Bank expired on June 30, halting all new export financing for U.S. businesses of all sizes. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year. He also led efforts to renew the Bank in 2012. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $77 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 18 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank’s transactions support small businesses. And because nearly 60 other countries have export credit agencies, the Export-Import Bank helps level the playing field for U.S. businesses. ###
10.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the announcement that Congressional leaders have reached a bipartisan budget deal with President Obama. The two-year Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 raises spending evenly between defense and domestic priorities, while also suspending the nation’s borrowing limit until March 2017. “People in Northwest Washington and across the country deserve a government that supports jobs and opportunity for hardworking families. The bipartisan budget compromise is a critical step toward keeping the government working for people in the Pacific Northwest. “I want to see a budget that invests wisely in all of our national priorities. The ongoing threat of job-killing, across-the-board spending cuts must end. Indiscriminate sequester cuts endanger investments that families across Northwest Washington depend on, from Head Start programs in Skagit County to housing for low-income veterans on Whidbey Island to meals for seniors in Snohomish County. I support the approach in this agreement that rolls back these harmful cuts and raises equally investments in defense and domestic priorities. “The agreement also prevents our country from defaulting on its debts by suspending the borrowing limit. I want to be clear that this move does not allow more spending, but instead makes sure the United States can pay for the debts that it has already incurred. “This budget deal gives me hope that Congress can put an end to manufactured crises and shutdown politics. The agreement is not perfect, but it is a compromise that can move our country forward. Hardworking families are depending on Congress to get this done,” Larsen said. A fact sheet about the budget agreement is available here. ###
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project will receive $10 million through the federal TIGER program, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Larsen wrote a letter of support for Washington state’s application for these funds and has previously talked with the U.S. Department of Transportation secretary about the importance of the project. The Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project will help reduce congestion through Mukilteo and on State Route 525. The project includes a new passenger terminal building with pedestrian, bicycle and high-occupancy vehicle loading, better commuter rail connections, and a bus transit center. “Investing in transportation infrastructure like the Mukilteo ferry terminal creates jobs and keeps our economy moving. Great news today for the commuters, businesses and visitors who rely on the Mukilteo ferry terminal: $10 million in federal funding is on its way to the project. This federal investment will help pay for a new terminal that will improve safety, traffic congestion and ease of access, making the terminal safer and more efficient for the people and businesses who depend on this route to get around. “In Washington state, ferries are an extension of our highway system. The Mukilteo-Clinton ferry route is one of the state’s busiest, serving nearly 4 million riders in 2014. That’s why I have pushed since I was first elected to make sure Mukilteo gets a world-class multimodal facility. The Mukilteo ferry terminal project is a perfect example of how federal, state and private stakeholders can work together to make needed improvements to our transportation infrastructure. “The project underscores the critical role the federal government plays in transportation investments and the need for a long-term surface transportation bill,” Larsen said. Larsen worked for more than 10 years with local, state and federal stakeholders to transfer the property for the new terminal from the Air Force to the Port of Everett. The transfer was completed in October 2013. Larsen also has advocated for federal funding for the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal, including in spending bills in 2007 and 2009. Congress established the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant program in 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. ###
10.23.2015	Grant will fund support services for students, teachers, families and first responders following the school shooting one year ago WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (WA) and Maria Cantwell (WA) and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) applauded the announcement that Washington state will receive more than $2.1 million through the U.S. Department of Justice to provide additional recovery support to the Marysville and Tulalip communities, following the shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School one year ago. The members of Congress also thanked local organizations who have worked over the last year to provide care and recovery services. The grant will go to the state Office of Crime Victims Advocacy to support ongoing care, such as therapy and mental health awareness training, as the Marysville and Tulalip communities continue to heal. After the devastating shooting on October 24, 2014, Murray, Cantwell, Larsen and DelBene wrote a letter to the Department of Justice on April 7, 2015, in support of the state’s request for a grant to help with trauma care and recovery costs. “Though the pain experienced by the Marysville-Pilchuck community is still so new, I am inspired by the resilience of everyone who has come together and remained ‘MP Strong.’ Each and every day we remember the students whose lives were cut far too short, and it is up to us to honor their memories.” said Senator Murray. “I am so glad to see Marysville receive this federal support to provide mental health services and other assistance to those involved.” “On the one year anniversary of the shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School, we remember the five students who lost their lives, and our thoughts and prayers are with their families and the communities devastated by this tragedy. The outpouring of support has been overwhelming, but we must continue to support those healing from this senseless tragedy,” said Senator Cantwell. “The critical resources provided by this grant will be used to help overcome the challenges to rebuilding and recovery of the Marysville community and Tulalip Reservation.” “The strength and resilience of the Marysville and Tulalip communities is truly inspiring and admirable. Students, teachers, families, first responders and the whole community have worked hard together to heal and recover after the horrific shooting one year ago. I hope this grant will allow local organizations to continue their great work to bring counseling and other trauma care services to the community to help the healing process continue,” said Congressman Larsen. “After a tragedy like this, lives are changed forever and we will always remember the five young people we lost,” said Congresswoman DelBene. “These funds will help our community heal by providing resources to students, family members, faculty, members of the Tulalip Tribe and first responders as they continue to recover from the trauma of this heartbreaking event.” The grant is awarded through the Department of Justice’s Office for Victims of Crime Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program. Funds will support crisis response costs, both incurred and anticipated, for trauma care and other services the community needs. Several local organizations will make use of the grant: Victim Support Services will be able to expand its work in training, advocacy and therapy for the community. Marysville Area Crisis Support Services plans to enhance services for first responders and their families. Local first responder agencies will be able to restore their budgets that were stretched following the tragedy. The Marysville Recovery Committee, which has coordinated the response for the community, will consolidate recovery information to make it easier to access. Click here to see the letter the members wrote requesting the grant in April. ###
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today joined with his colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to advance a long-term transportation bill to the full House for consideration. Larsen issued the following statement about his support for the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 3763), a bill that included his language to improve financial accountability for ferry boat funding, which could help the ferry system in Washington state . “My top priority is creating jobs and investing in the foundation of long-term economic growth in the Pacific Northwest. One of the best ways I know to accomplish these goals is to build and repair our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. That is why I have worked so hard to move a long-term transportation bill forward. “The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 is an important step toward ensuring cities, counties and states can count on the transportation funding they need. While I am disappointed the bill does not make a bigger investment overall, a long-term bill will help ensure that businesses can trust in reliable access to markets and citizens can get to work and school safely. “When I talk with transportation stakeholders in Washington state, I hear about the issues they are facing every day. These are the issues I am fighting for in this bill. Our state has the largest public ferry system in the country, and ferries are an extension of our highway system. Thousands of people use ferries every day to get to work, school and medical appointments. The bill includes my language that improves the financial accountability of ferry systems, which will help our ferry system in Washington state. We should be spending taxpayer dollars wisely and in a timely fashion. “Less than 2 percent of federal transportation funding goes to the Transportation Alternatives Program, which funds bike and pedestrian projects. But communities leverage these small funds to get big results by investing in bike lanes, sidewalks and trails. I fought successfully to maintain funding for this program in the bill, and I will keep pushing for strong bike and pedestrian infrastructure. “I am pleased to see this bill commits to doing more to keep communities near rail lines safe. The number of trains carrying crude oil has increased exponentially in recent years. In Northwest Washington, we have gone from zero trains a week to 10 or more in some places. This bill rightly recognizes the need for safety upgrades on railways around the country by including funding that can be used to improve at-grade crossings. The bill does not go as far as my At-Grade Crossing Enhancement Act, but it is an important start. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. Let’s get this bill done to put people to work and keep our economy moving,” Larsen said. Below is a summary of the transportation programs included in the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 of particular importance to Washington state. Funding level One of the problems with the bill is that it does not include enough sources of funding to fully pay for itself. While the bill authorizes $325 billion in spending on important surface transportation programs over six years, the only concrete funding source for it is the gas tax. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the gas tax will bring in about $240 billion between 2016 and 2022, leaving a gap that still needs to be fixed. Bridges Bridge safety has long been a priority for Larsen, and this bill makes funding more available for smaller bridges that are not part of the National Highway System. Midsized Cities Midsized cities often have trouble competing for federal transportation grants because they do not have the same resources as larger cities. Larsen had planned to make it easier for midsized cities to access the TIGER Grant program, but the bill does not reauthorize that program. Larsen pressed the committee to continue working to help smaller cities and counties access federal resources for their transportation projects. Ferries Larsen pushed for more financial accountability for ferry boat funding, which could help the ferry system in Washington state. The bill included Larsen’s language to rescind and redistribute money that ferry systems have not used within three years of the allocation. Bike and Pedestrian Infrastructure Larsen has led efforts to maintain funding for a popular program that supports community investments in infrastructure for bicyclists and pedestrians. The bill sustains the Transportation Alternatives Program, which communities use for sidewalks, bike lanes and trails. Rail Safety In response to constituents’ concerns about the safety of crude oil traveling by rail, Larsen has pressed for higher standards for these trains to keep communities safe. He specifically has pushed to direct money to improving rail crossings, where rail incidents are most likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. The bill creates new programs that could fund at-grade crossing improvements, including: A formula program for states to improve at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus spending bill includes $350 million in funding. Competitive and formula funding for nationally significant freight mobility projects, including at-grade crossings. The competitive program starts at $800 billion in FY2016 and ramps up to $1 billion in FY2020. Projects eligible under this program are meant to be regionally significant and have costs of more than $100 million. However, up to 10 percent of funding can be used on smaller projects, including planning and design work, with a cost of more than $5 million. Additionally, 25 percent of funding is reserved for areas with a population of 200,000 people or less. The formula program starts at $1.1 billion in FY2016 and will be distributed to all states. A competitive grant program for rail infrastructure and safety improvements, including at-grade crossings. The FY2016 Omnibus directs $25 million to this program. ###
10.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) decision to create a registration process for unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). The FAA will create a task force to develop the process over the coming weeks. “Safety is, and must be, the FAA’s number-one priority. I know it is mine, as the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. I also know the UAS industry has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs, including in my district in Washington state, an epicenter of aviation R&D. “Earlier this month, the Aviation Subcommittee held hearings on UAS safety. There was clear, bipartisan agreement that some kind of registration process for UAS will improve safety. I’m glad FAA agrees, as well. "Today’s announcement is good news for safety and for responsible UAS owners. However, the Committee needs to make sure that registration is secure, available to FAA to use for enforcement purposes, and a straightforward process for UAS users. I look forward to working with Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman LoBiondo to closely follow FAA’s next steps,” Larsen said. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against lifting the export ban on crude oil. Larsen issued the following statement regarding his decision about H.R. 702, which the U.S. House of Representatives passed by a vote of 261-159. “This bill to lift the ban our country has on exports of crude oil only adds uncertainty to the lives of the thousands of workers at the refineries in Northwest Washington. These women and men work hard to manufacture energy products we rely on to keep our economy moving. If Congress moves to get rid of the ban, lawmakers also have to protect these workers and the energy security they provide to our country. “Additionally, I voted against an amendment that would have stripped funding from the Maritime Security Program (MSP). I have long supported this program that helps our country maintain an active and robust fleet of ships in service to our national security and boosts maritime manufacturing jobs in the Northwest and nationwide,” Larsen said. ###
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today joined with a majority of members of the U.S. House of Representatives to press for a vote on a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Larsen and a majority of his colleagues signed a petition to bring up for a vote a bill to renew the Bank. The Bank expired on June 30, halting all new export financing for U.S. businesses of all sizes. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year. The next step for renewing the Bank will be a vote on the House floor, which should come in late October. “Helping our businesses sell their goods overseas creates jobs here at home. Since Republicans allowed the Bank to expire this summer, major U.S. companies have announced they are losing sales and moving jobs overseas to take advantage of export assistance that other countries offer. Since 90 percent of the bank’s transactions support small businesses, they are taking the hardest hit and no longer have access to the financing needed to get their products into the hands of international consumers. “I am pleased to join with my a majority of my colleagues today in a bipartisan effort to revive the Export-Import Bank, a critical tool our manufacturers use to expand their sales around the world. Congress should do the right thing for jobs and get this done,” Larsen said. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $76 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 18 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee’s hearing, “Ensuring Aviation Safety in the Era of Unmanned Aircraft Systems.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for holding today's hearing on "Ensuring Aviation Safety in the Era of Unmanned Aircraft Systems." I’m pleased we are here this morning to address the important and timely topic of the safety of unmanned aircraft systems, or UAS, in the National Airspace System. The number of unmanned aircraft being sold in the United States is staggering. According to one industry trade group, the number of UAS sold this year could reach 700,000–63 percent higher than just one year ago. Other reports suggest the figure will soon reach one million. And it will continue to grow. So the natural question becomes, who is flying these million-plus unmanned aircraft? Many are responsible, safe users. They include serious hobbyists, such as those represented by the Academy of Model Aeronautics here today and commercial users with a financial interest in safe, responsible operations. But they also include people who are not familiar with the rules of aviation or concepts of aviation safety. The 600-plus reports of near passes between conventional aircraft and drones so far this year tells us we need to do more to reduce the likelihood of a drone ending up in the flight path of a commercial airliner with hundreds of people on board. Those 600-plus pilot sightings suggest that allowing anyone to fly a drone on or near the nation's airways is like letting people drive remote-controlled model cars on the interstate. Unless more is done, it is not if an accident will happen, but when. Committee staff found some pilot reports in NASA’s Aviation Safety Reporting System of some scary encounters. One pilot reported that he “encountered a drone that came close enough to hear the propeller noise from the drone from inside my cabin...The small size of the drone made it impossible to see until it was too late to take any evasive action.” And the list goes on and on and on. In addition to risks in the air, unmanned aircraft pose risks on the ground. This year an unmanned aircraft flew into a stadium full of people, and others have crashed into security sensitive areas. The risk is here. And one incident is one too many. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about what the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and stakeholders are doing to address this safety risk, before it's too late. However, let me be clear. We cannot deny the extensive public and commercial benefits of unmanned aircraft. UAS can be used for search and rescue, wildfire mitigation, as well as the inspection of bridges and other critical transportation infrastructure. The UAS industry also has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs. One industry trade group estimates that in just ten years (2025), unmanned aircraft will create 100,000 jobs and add $82 billion in value to our economy. This is particularly important to my home state of Washington – a thriving hub of aviation R&D. This Committee has an enormous opportunity to be proactive, to listen to these experts today to understand what Congress can do to help keep our nation’s skies safe, and produce legislation about unmanned aircraft that will reflect our safety agenda while doing no harm to a promising industry. The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 directed FAA to safely integrate unmanned aircraft by 2015, and it required the agency to issue regulations on small unmanned aircraft. While FAA expects to issue this (delayed) rule next year, this action will provide regulation to safely implement primarily commercial operations. The question I would like to address today is: what should Congress do, and what can FAA do, to ensure the safety of recreational UAS operations? Some say section 336 of the 2012 FAA bill prohibits the agency from taking any meaningful action to regulate small recreational unmanned aircraft. I caution against a broad interpretation of that provision, which was crafted to apply very narrowly. In fact, in light of all the safety events that have emerged this year, maybe it's time to revisit that provision altogether. I look forward to hearing from all of our panelists about what Congress, the FAA and industry can do to keep the integration of UAS on track and to ensure safety. Thank you. ###
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after negotiators from 12 countries, including the U.S., announced they had reached a final agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement. “Today negotiators from the U.S. and 11 other countries announced they have reached a comprehensive and ambitious agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). While I have not taken a position on TPP yet, I have listened to people’s concerns about a number of issues, and I have closely followed the progress of negotiations with an eye toward those concerns. “As I evaluate the final agreement, the issues I hear most about will be top of mind. These include protections for workers and the environment; safeguards for human rights; access to medicines in developing countries; the importance of enforcement mechanisms; and strong dispute settlement provisions that require foreign companies to live up to the standards we have in the U.S. “I will also keep in mind that in Washington state, trade matters for our economy. About 40 percent of our jobs are tied to trade in some way. Our state exported more than $90 billion in goods and services in 2014, up from about $65 million three years earlier in 2011. “People can and should read the TPP text for themselves. Everything in the agreement will be available to the public for at least three months before Congress can vote on it. “The TPP is a major trade agreement involving countries that make up nearly 40 percent of the world’s economic output, and it deserves serious and thoughtful evaluation. I will take my time reviewing it and hearing feedback from my constituents before I make a decision,” Larsen said. Once TPP negotiators have finalized all of the text of the agreement, it will be publicly available for 60 days before the President can sign it. Then the administration must meet certain reporting requirements to Congress and the public before Congress votes on the agreement. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that busts defense spending caps by more than $38 billion, giving the Department of Defense (DOD) a temporary free pass on spending while continuing with harmful cuts to domestic priorities like infrastructure and education. The conference report for the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed the House by a vote of 270 – 155. “As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know the Committee is capable of writing bipartisan defense policy bills that we all agree put our country’s best interests first. This year’s bill breaks that tradition by relying on budgetary gimmicks to evade defense spending caps while at the same time, Congress has failed to address the harmful effects of sequestration on critical domestic priorities. “Earlier this year, I supported advancing this bill out of the House to give Congress time to responsibly fund both domestic and defense spending. Instead, even in the face of President Obama’s veto, House and Senate Republicans have left $38 billion of core defense spending in the war funding account that is not subject to budget caps. I agree with Defense Secretary Carter that this gimmick harms the military because it does not provide a stable base for long-term budgeting. “I support many of the policies in this bill, including the establishment of a joint formulary for key prescriptions drugs to ease servicemembers’ transition from DOD to Veterans Affairs health care. I am also pleased that the bill increases the number of visas available for translators and others who risked their lives to help our military in Afghanistan. “However, I cannot support such a haphazard approach to our country’s budget, which should reflect our value of shared opportunity for all. Congress should address the harmful effects of the sequester across all of our national priorities, rather than using tricks to protect just one part of the budget.” Larsen said. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today issued the following statement after he voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a 10-week spending bill to keep the federal government open through December 11. The federal government’s fiscal year ends today at midnight. “While it is good news for the American people that the government will be open for business tomorrow, I am frustrated that a shutdown was once again on the table as Republicans threatened to deny basic health care to millions of women and men by defunding Planned Parenthood. And I am concerned that Republicans will be back at it for yet another reckless funding showdown in just a couple of short months. “Instead of voting multiple times to take away preventive health care from people in our communities who can least afford it, Republicans should channel their energy into keeping the government working for the American people,” Larsen said. ###
09.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Veterans who rely on transportation through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to reach their health care appointments no longer have to fear losing their rides at the end of the year, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Mac Thornberry, TX-13, said today. The House passed a bill that contained a provision championed by Larsen and Thornberry to extend the Veterans Transportation Service Program, which was set to expire at the end of 2015. Earlier this year, Larsen and Thornberry introduced the Rural Veterans Travel Enhancement Act of 2015. The bill would permanently reauthorize the Veterans Transportation Service program and provide mileage reimbursement for combat veterans traveling to receive counseling and care from Veterans Centers. It would also reauthorize a grant program to provide transportation options to highly rural veterans seeking medical care. While the House-passed bill today (S. 2082) is not as comprehensive as Larsen and Thornberry’s Act, they said it is an important step forward to make sure veterans can access the care they need. “Ensuring veterans have access to health care does not just mean having enough doctors. It means making sure veterans can get to appointments with their doctors,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Now veterans throughout Northwest Washington and the country can continue to rely on the VA for help traveling to and from their appointments for another year. But veterans should not have to face uncertainty every 12 months about whether then can depend on a ride. I will keep working with Rep. Thornberry to push our bill across the finish line to better serve our veterans.” “We have a responsibility to the men and women who sacrificed so much for our nation with their selfless service,” said Thornberry, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We will never know the full extent of their sacrifice, but we would not know freedom without it. That is why programs and legislation like this are so important in our work to better serve them.” The Veterans Transportation Service program provides funding to local VA facilities to hire transportation coordinators and purchase vehicles that VA-trained staff can use to connect more veterans to the care they need. The cost-effective program helps save money on ambulance costs and mileage reimbursements. ###
09.28.2015	WASHINGTON D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the lead Democrat on the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered a speech on the House floor today about a six-month extension of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Larsen lauded the many bipartisan achievements the Subcommittee has agreed on for a long-term FAA extension thus far, while lamenting that an unnecessary proposal to privatize air traffic control is holding up the whole bill. The House passed the FAA extension (H.R. 3614). Watch the video of Larsen’s remarks here. Full text of Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery are below. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this temporary measure to extend the authorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), but I do so with great disappointment. We could be on the Floor today to enact a long-term FAA reauthorization bill. In the last two years, the Aviation Subcommittee has held 16 hearings on a variety of topics. We have heard from stakeholders that there is a long list of things we need to do to stay competitive with our economic rivals and keep our airspace the safest and most efficient in the world. We need to reform aircraft certification so that manufacturers can get the newest, safest equipment to market. We need to set clear rules for unmanned aerial vehicles and accelerate efforts for their safe use. We need to advance NextGen programs to move air traffic faster and more efficiently. Chairman Shuster, Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Member DeFazio, and I have achieved bipartisan agreement on most of those major key issues that we need to address. That bill is ready to go. We didn’t hear during those many hearings that we need to privatize air traffic control. Some people want to privatize air traffic control – and I’m sure they do so in good faith that it will improve aviation. But we don’t need to do it. And it’s preventing the things we do need to do from getting done. An entire bipartisan bill is being held up simply because stakeholders can’t agree on the details of a complex, untested proposal to privatize air traffic control. I fail to understand why at this juncture such a proposal is necessary, particularly when it prevents significant and much-needed reform from taking place. There is no dispute that today we safely operate the most complex and congested airspace in the world. Last year, the Government Accountability Office asked 76 aviation stakeholders whether the FAA is capable of operating an efficient air traffic control system. Of those 76, the overwhelming majority—64—said the FAA is capable of doing so. Privatizing the current system is clearly not a pressing need. It’s a want. I wish I could say I am surprised at the place that we find ourselves today. But many people have been saying for a long time that this was the situation we would be facing before September 30. In fact, when we held a hearing on air traffic privatization back in March, I predicted we were headed down the road of multiple short-term reauthorizations. The bipartisan portions of the bill Chairman Shuster, Chairman LoBiondo, Ranking Member DeFazio and I have agreed to would have immediate benefits in my home state of Washington, as well as for the entire U.S. economy. It would protect and create American jobs through airport construction and aerospace manufacturing; it would also improve aviation safety. It would improve the way that aircraft and parts are certified to get newer and safer technology to market in a faster way. It would build on the safety improvements this body made following the tragic Colgan Flight 3407 crash in 2009. And it would improve the regulation and development of unmanned aerial systems, which continue to proliferate in our airspace. We need a strong regulatory system in place to safely grow the unmanned aircraft industry, and until we act that system will not be in place. For every day of this extension, travelers and the aerospace industry will not receive the improvements and protections that we have crafted in the bipartisan agreement. We will continue to fall behind other countries that are making similar improvements. As many lawmakers and aviation stakeholders recall, the last FAA reauthorization bill came after a period of five years and 23 short-term extensions. I had hoped we would avoid serial extensions this time around, but today we start down that path. So it is with disappointment that I am here to support a temporary extension. I would strongly urge my Republican colleagues to make this the only temporary extension before enactment of a long-term bill. We have a long list of things we need to do today to improve our airspace. We should focus on those things, instead of the things we only want to do. Thank you, and I yield back. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the joint announcement from President Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping to expand the efforts of both countries to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Larsen has pointed to the two countries’ joint efforts to combat climate change as a critical precursor to a successful U.N. climate agreement in Paris in December. During Xi’s first official state visit to the U.S., the two presidents today built on the joint climate change agreement from last November. China will implement a cap-and-trade system to incentivize reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, as well as starting a system that will prioritize power that comes from renewable sources. The U.S. will move forward to implement the Clean Power Plan in 2016. “U.S.-China relations are in a phase of hope and hurdles, and our climate change efforts fall under the heading of hope. The world’s two biggest economies must lead by example, and today’s announcement from Presidents Obama and Xi shows the U.S. and China continue to be serious about decreasing harmful greenhouse gas emissions. “In a meeting with President Xi earlier this week in Seattle, I told him he would hear that China was not doing enough to show progress on its climate change efforts. His announcement that China will set up a market-based cap-and-trade system to bring down its emissions is a strong statement about the country’s commitment to mitigating the effects of climate change, as well as improving the horrible air pollution plaguing the Chinese people. “The U.S. and China’s joint action also paves a smoother way to the United Nations climate change conference in Paris in December. Other countries, and even voices within our own country, have cited China's refusal to adopt greenhouse gas reductions as an excuse not to start their own efforts. That excuse is now gone. “Bringing together dozens of countries to agree on making difficult changes to their energy usage is a steep hill to climb, but this deal makes it more surmountable. “Carrying out environmental reforms of this magnitude will require both countries to increase their investment in clean energy technology, setting the stage for broader trade in environmental goods and services that will create jobs here at home. U.S. companies and the workers who make a living from the jobs at companies manufacturing green technology are ready, willing and able to provide the services and make the products that grow our economy here at home while helping China achieve its goal of reducing greenhouse gases. “Working together to fight a defining challenge facing our world could be one of the most substantial environmental achievements in world history,” Larsen said. ###
09.24.2015	Larsen’s call to action comes as Pope Francis addresses Congress WASHINGTON, D.C.—The United States has the capacity to take in more Syrian refugees, and it should play a leadership role in helping alleviate the global refugee crisis, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Larsen’s call to action comes as Pope Francis addressed Congress and included a message about the need for people around the world to work together to ease the plight of refugees. “Pope Francis made a powerful case to Congress today about taking compassionate action to help the most vulnerable and marginalized people in our global community. He reminded the people of the United States that many of us descend from immigrants, and that we all seek similar things: hope, dignity and opportunities for our families. “The world is facing a massive crisis with the millions of refugees fleeing the war in Syria. International organizations estimate that more than 4 million Syrians have fled to other countries, and another 7.6 million have been displaced within Syria. Countries in Europe and the Middle East are grappling with how to support the huge influx of people asking for help. While the Obama Administration has announced that the U.S. will increase the number of refugees our country takes in from around the world each year, this move is not enough. “The U.S. has a long and successful history of offering a safe haven to those who are fleeing violence and severe hardship. We must not stumble on leadership now. We have the knowledge and resources to help refugees build a new life here. “The International Rescue Committee, one of the world’s leading refugee assistance organizations, has called on the U.S. to accept 100,000 refugees from Syria, a small fraction of the millions of people who have lost their homes. Leaders from many faiths, including Methodists, Lutherans, Unitarians and others, also have urged the administration to take in 100,000 refugees from Syria. The U.S. should accept this call. It is the right response to live up to our role as an international leader, and it is the right response to a rapidly worsening humanitarian crisis. “Some will say we should first help those who suffer within our own borders. I agree that too many families in the U.S. face hunger and uncertainty about where they might sleep tonight, and Congress should act to address this unacceptable reality. But as the largest economy in the world, we cannot ignore the plight of so many who have lost so much. “Pope Francis reminded us today of our responsibility to take care of one another. He reminded us that ‘if we want opportunities, let us provide opportunities.’ The words are simple, but they are forceful. Our country can and should offer opportunity to people who have lost their homes to violence,” Larsen said. During the four years of the war in Syria, the U.S. has taken in a total of 1,500 Syrian refugees. Secretary of State John Kerry announced that the U.S. would accept 100,000 refugees annually from all over the world starting in 2017. This includes the 10,000 Syrian refugees that President Obama agreed to admit. The current annual cap for refugees from all over the world coming to the U.S. is 70,000. ###
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded federal grants for two Pacific Northwest organizations in support of their work to prevent homelessness among veterans. Catholic Community Services of Western Washington received $776,000 and the Opportunity Council received $704,000 through the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program. Both organizations are prior recipients of the grant. “Unfortunately many veterans struggle with homelessness. That is why I am a strong supporter of programs like SSVF that enable local organizations to help more of our veterans get permanent housing and on the path to independence,” Larsen said. “Catholic Community Services and the Opportunity Council have a track record of increasing access to stable housing for veterans who are at-risk of or already experiencing homelessness, and I thank these organizations for their continued commitment to serving veterans in need.” “Catholic Community Services in the last year, through the SSVF grant, has served 113 Snohomish County homeless veterans and their families. SSVF is a vital resource in Snohomish County to help veterans who are unsheltered and homeless,” said Will Rice, NW Regional Chief of Operations for Catholic Community Services of Western Washington. “This program provides rapid rehousing for those without housing, as well as resources to prevent homelessness among those veterans who are at imminent risk of becoming homeless. Additionally, this program is essential to providing homeless veterans highly specialized case management services to help veterans access VA services and employment services.” “The Opportunity Council is committed to giving people the help they need to achieve self-sufficiency,” said Greg Winter, director of the Whatcom Homeless Service Center at the Opportunity Council. “With the SSVF grant, we are able to make progress on this goal for veterans and their families. We appreciate Congressman Larsen’s support as we work toward ending homelessness among veterans.” Catholic Community Services provides help to veterans in Snohomish County. The Opportunity Council serves veterans in Island, Skagit and Whatcom counties, and will begin serving San Juan County this year. More information about the grant awards is available here. ###
09.18.2015	Larsen family story exposes lies that Planned Parenthood opponents continue to spread despite the facts. WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would defund Planned Parenthood, a move that would take away preventive health care for millions of women and men across the country. Larsen shared his family’s story about the way Planned Parenthood helped them, and he called for continued funding for the organization that serves millions of women with a range of health care services each year. “In early 1996, my wife and I received great news: the pregnancy test showed Tiia was pregnant with our first son. Because our health insurance plans were not very good, Tiia sought out an affordable health care provider that could do the test in a safe facility. That provider was the local Planned Parenthood clinic. “We are very pleased that Planned Parenthood was there for us and played an important role in bringing this good news to us. Tiia was like many Planned Parenthood patients using the reproductive health services the organization provides. Unlike some, however, she didn't need the financial assistance some get through federal family planning funding—Title X—to get this service. Yet, many do. Nearly 80 percent of women using Planned Parenthood clinics have an income at or below 150 percent of the poverty level. “Our family story is one that exposes the lies that Planned Parenthood opponents continue to spread despite the facts. Ninety-seven percent of Planned Parenthood services are reproductive and preventive health care, not abortions. For example, in Washington state in 2013, more than 17,000 women turned to Planned Parenthood for a breast exam. During a recent visit I made to Mt. Baker Planned Parenthood in Bellingham, I learned that about 70 percent of the clinic’s patients rely on the health center as their source of primary health care. “Planned Parenthood is there for women and men who otherwise would have difficulty affording care. Women and men use their health insurance and Medicaid, as well as Title X funding, to meet their health care needs at Planned Parenthood. “Taking away these services from people in our communities who can least afford it just to score political points is unacceptable. I am frustrated that Congress is once again focusing its attention on stripping away people’s health care and interfering with women’s ability to make decisions with their doctors. “I have consistently voted to protect funding for family planning services and Planned Parenthood, and I will continue to do so. I stand with Planned Parenthood and the millions of people who depend on the organization for their health care, and I am deeply grateful that Planned Parenthood was there for my family,” Larsen said. Larsen voted against H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, but House Republicans passed the bill by a vote of 241-187. ###
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced $887,000 in federal funding for the Skagit Regional Airport. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) investment will fund safety upgrades for the airport’s runway. “We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure,” Larsen said. “As a hub for business and general aviation, Skagit Regional Airport is a key to economic growth in Skagit County. As the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am fighting for robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this one that contribute to a strong economy. Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure create jobs and improve safety for pilots, passengers and nearby communities.” “Skagit Regional Airport is a vital element of Skagit County’s transportation infrastructure,” said Patsy Martin, executive director for the Port of Skagit. “We provide a safe and accommodating facility for business, commercial and recreational aviation. This FAA grant will help us maintain and upgrade our runway so the airport can continue to serve as an economic driver for the region. We thank Congressman Larsen for his continued support of local aviation and his work on the Aviation Subcommittee.” ###
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $200,000 federal grant for Cocoon House in Everett, which provides services for teens experiencing homelessness. Larsen visited the organization earlier this month to learn more about its operations and funding needs. “Cocoon House plays a critical role in Snohomish County by offering teens in need a safe place to seek housing and other resources. I am pleased Cocoon House is receiving this federal investment so the organization can continue helping young people secure homes and a strong future,” Larsen said. “The federal grant will ensure Cocoon House continues to provide critical housing services to homeless teens in Snohomish County. We are lucky to have such great support from our community, including Congressman Larsen’s office,” said Cassie Franklin, CEO for Cocoon House. Larsen supported Cocoon House’s application for the grant, which is nationally competitive and comes from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, as well as previous federal funding the organization has received. ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today led all the House Democrats on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in requesting funding for a popular program that supports community investments in infrastructure for bicyclists and pedestrians. Larsen and his colleagues asked Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio and Highways and Transit Subcommittee Ranking Member Eleanor Holmes Norton for their continued support of the Transportation Alternatives Program. “Less than 2 percent of federal transportation funding goes to the Transportation Alternatives Program, which funds bike and pedestrian projects. But communities leverage these small funds to get big results. To make sure safety comes first for everyone who uses our roads, whether they bike, bus, drive or walk, local communities need these resources to invest in bike lanes, sidewalks and trails. Better bike and pedestrian infrastructure not only improves safety, it benefits people’s quality of life by cutting down on traffic congestion and pollution,” Larsen said. Full text of the letter follows. September 10, 2015 The Honorable Peter DeFazio U.S. House of Representatives 2134 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Eleanor Holmes Norton U.S. House of Representatives 2136 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Ranking Member DeFazio and Ranking Member Norton: As you work on a long-term surface transportation bill, we ask that you continue your history of strong support for the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP). We greatly appreciate your leadership to support bicycling and walking and to defend against threats to a multi-modal transportation system. We stand with you in this fight. For the House transportation bill to be bipartisan, it must not cut funding for TAP or make policy changes that undermine the local availability of these dollars. As you well know, TAP provides much-needed funds for local transportation priorities, including bicycling, walking and Safe Routes to School projects. All funds in TAP must be made available through a competitive process, ensuring that the mayors and local leaders who best know their own communities can seek funding for projects that fit their needs. Communities of all shapes and sizes—rural, urban and suburban—are clamoring for TAP dollars to give their residents lower-cost transportation options that reduce road congestion, improve safety for children and families, and boost quality of life. These types of projects are also essential to helping cities and counties increase property values, grow retail sales and attract tourism. While MAP-21 gave states the option of transferring up to half of TAP funds to other transportation priorities, just 10 percent of TAP funds have been transferred—clearly showing the demand for these funds across the country. This is a good program and it deserves to continue. Thank you again for your long history of leadership on this issue. We look forward to working with you to preserve the Transportation Alternatives Program in the House transportation bill. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Jerrold Nadler Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress Elijah E. Cummings Member of Congress Michael E. Capuano Member of Congress Grace F. Napolitano Member of Congress Daniel Lipinski Member of Congress Steve Cohen Member of Congress Albio Sires Member of Congress Donna F. Edwards Member of Congress John Garamendi Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Janice Hahn Member of Congress Richard M. Nolan Member of Congress Ann Kirkpatrick Member of Congress Dina Titus Member of Congress Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress Elizabeth H. Esty Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Cheri Bustos Member of Congress Jared Huffman Member of Congress Julia Brownley Member of Congress ###
09.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following a series of six recent roundtables with veterans across the Second Congressional District, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today thanked the approximately 414 veterans and their family members who attended. Larsen heard questions and comments from veterans on a variety of issues, including reforms at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and successes and challenges getting access to services like health care, job training and housing. He provided a summary of some of the themes from the roundtables and underscored his continued commitment to connecting veterans with the services they need. “I had the opportunity recently to meet with more than 400 veterans and their family members at six roundtables across Northwest Washington. I am grateful to all the veterans and their families who took time to meet with me during these events. Their ideas will help me do a better job working on their behalf in Congress. And I thank all veterans in the Second District and across the country for their service. “Common themes emerged during all of the roundtables, including questions about the VA Choice program, services available at the Mount Vernon Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) and the VA backlog. Based on the feedback I heard, I will be looking in the coming weeks at some ways to continue improving veterans’ access to the services they need. My office also will be working to help more than two dozen veterans who attended the roundtables with their individual circumstances. “I have always worked to be an advocate for local veterans in Congress by pushing to address their needs for health care, education, employment and housing. My commitment remains steadfast as I continue to look for solutions that support our country’s veterans,” Larsen said. Larsen provided the following updates based on common themes from the roundtables: VA Choice One major VA reform that I voted for and Congress passed in 2014 created VA Choice, a three-year program to allow veterans living more than 40 miles from VA health care, or who had waited more than 30 days for a VA appointment, to access non-VA care at no extra cost. At the roundtables, many veterans had concerns and questions about VA Choice. Some veterans shared that the Choice program helped them get the care they need in a more timely way, while others have had major challenges. Representatives from the VA Puget Sound Health Care System attended the roundtables and helped answer veterans’ questions about how the program is supposed to work and how to navigate the system. I will be looking at whether there are ways to adjust Choice to get rid of roadblocks for veterans in Northwest Washington. Veterans with questions about the Choice program can call the Choice Champions Call Center at 206-764-2876. [More useful phone numbers are available here.] CBOC update I had the opportunity to tour the Mount Vernon CBOC and hear about the various services the clinic offers. Residents in the North Puget Sound rightly advocated for the clinic several years ago, and I was pleased to work with Senator Patty Murray to open the clinic and bring VA services closer to veterans in the Second Congressional District. Now the clinic has become a victim of its own success because demand has outgrown what the facility can provide. The clinic was designed to serve 6,500 patients, and it is now serving 8,500. The clinic is currently working to address its shortage of primary care doctors through different recruiting and retention efforts. Many veterans at the roundtables expressed frustration that they could not get into the clinic in a timely way, and they wanted to know why the clinic does not have enough doctors. Part of the issue is the high demand for the clinic. VA facilities also are competing with private hospitals and clinics for doctors amid a national primary care physician shortage. These are not excuses, but explanations for what is happening in at the Mount Vernon CBOC. Clinic leaders I spoke with are actively working to hire more primary care doctors. VA representatives at the roundtables discussed the possibility of another CBOC north of Seattle. I am ready to get to work to make a new clinic a reality to bring more accessible health care to veterans. On the mental health care side, I want to be clear that the CBOC accepts walk-in patients weekdays 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., and 12:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. These same-day appointments are designed to assist veterans who may need immediate mental health care. Backlog decrease The large number of veterans waiting too long for VA care was a big reason for the reforms that Congress passed last year. Since then, the VA has worked to reduce the backlog, which is defined as claims that were older than 125 days. The VA recently reported that the number of backlog cases is down 84 percent from its peak of 611,000 in March 2013. In the Puget Sound region, the number is down 92 percent. The Puget Sound VA Health Care System is one of the fastest growing in the country, and it has referred more veterans to the VA Choice program than other regions. Many veterans still face long waits to see their doctors, so there is more work to do to connect veterans with timely care. I continue to support full funding for the VA so the department can hire the doctors, nurses and support staff needed to serve veterans successfully. Individual Cases Veterans who are struggling to access the federal services available to them may be able to get help from my office, including getting personnel records or ensuring the VA receives claims or appeals. Many veterans brought their individual challenges to the roundtables, and my staff will be working to assist them. So far, my staff has opened more than 20 individual cases brought to our attention at the roundtables. In 2014, my office was able to help 170 veterans with their individual circumstances. ###
09.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced $4.19 million in federal grants for Paine Field. The Federal Aviation Administration investment will fund safety and facility upgrades at the airfield. “We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure,” Larsen said. “As the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am fighting for robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this one that contribute to a strong economy. Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure create jobs and improve safety for pilots, passengers and nearby communities.” “As Snohomish County's largest economic engine, it is important to keep Paine Field operating safely and efficiently,” said Arif Ghouse, airport director for Paine Field. “Funding through the Federal Airport Improvement Program is critical in helping us meet that mission. We are extremely grateful for the support from Congressman Larsen and the FAA Seattle Airports District Office, without which this award would not have been possible." Paine Field will receive the funds to rehabilitate an aging runway lighting system, and to rehabilitate and reconfigure runways at the airport to improve safety. ###
09.03.2015	Agreement gives the international community the right tools to verify Iran’s actions with stringent restrictions and inspections WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced his support for the international agreement to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon. “I have decided to support the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). While the agreement is not perfect, it is a major step in preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I spent the last month reading the text, listening to my constituents, and talking to experts on all sides. We all agreed that the goal of U.S. policy must be to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. I believe that this agreement is the best available option toward achieving this end. “The agreement restricts Iranian stockpiles, enrichment, and technology. Iran’s compliance with these requirements will be verified with concrete evidence, not trust. The international community will have the tools and access to verify Iran’s progress toward upholding their end of the deal, tools we would not otherwise have. “Some I spoke to were concerned that the agreement did not give international inspectors sufficient access to all sites. I agree this is a pivotal consideration. For nuclear sites, the agreement gives us 24-hour access and the use of a variety of monitoring technology. For anywhere else, if the International Atomic Energy Agency has concerns, the process for getting access to the site can take up to 24 days. While a shorter period would be preferable, this still represents an unprecedented level of intrusiveness to the Iranian nuclear program and military. And international oversight of the nuclear supply chain increases the likelihood of detecting cheating. “Some have suggested renegotiating an agreement that included more concessions from the Iranians. Our partners in these negotiations, including the United Kingdom, France and Germany, are ready to move forward with this agreement. Russia and China appear likely to lift sanctions soon. Going back to the drawing board is not an option. Nuclear sanctions are going to be lifted. At this point, members of Congress have to decide if Iran should get something for nothing. I think it is better for national security if sanctions relief comes with stringent limitations on the Iranian nuclear program and a robust inspections regime. “I am under no illusions that this agreement represents a change in Iranian behavior, and I recognize we cannot change the whole regime through an agreement designed to address only nuclear weapons. Iran continues to hold Americans prisoner, foment terror in the region, and call for the destruction of our ally, Israel. However, you do not need to negotiate agreements like this with your friends. I applaud the Administration for its diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, and I will vote in favor of the agreement. “Now the work of implementation begins. The Obama administration must devote its full attention to carrying out the agreement and leave the next administration in a position to ensure continued Iranian compliance,” Larsen said. ###
08.27.2015	EVERETT—Low-income entrepreneurs will have more access to training and capital to establish and expand their businesses as a result of a federal grant to Washington Ventures, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Washington Ventures, a Seattle-based nonprofit that assists entrepreneurs who have limited resources, is receiving $123,000 through the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) Program for Investment in Microentrepreneurs (PRIME). The organization has helped small businesses throughout the Puget Sound region. “Small businesses are the engines of our economy. Helping entrepreneurs start and expand their businesses is good for families and good for our communities. I am pleased this federal investment will help more innovative small businesses get assistance to grow and strengthen our economy,” Larsen said. “Helping increase local small businesses’ opportunities to succeed is at the core of the Small Business Administration’s mission. We are thrilled to continue making investments that assist entrepreneurs as they start and grow their small businesses in the Pacific Northwest. Congressman Larsen understands the opportunities and challenges that small business owners face, and we appreciate his leadership to help these businesses thrive,” said Calvin Goings, Region 10 Administrator for the SBA. Ventures will use its PRIME award to provide training and technical assistance in business operations, sales, marketing, financial management and individual coaching. Recipients of these services will be low-income and very low-income entrepreneurs, with household incomes at or below 80 percent of the HUD area median income in Snohomish and King counties. More information about the PRIME award is available here. ###
08.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will join morning commuters traveling on a Community Transit Route 413 bus from Lynnwood to Seattle on Tuesday, Sept. 1. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, will talk with commuters about his work to invest in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. He also will answer questions from people about issues of interest to them. Reporters and people who are interested in talking with Larsen who do not typically use the Lynnwood to Seattle commuter route also are invited to join. The bus will return to the Swamp Creek Park & Ride in Lynnwood after its trip to Seattle. Commuters who would like to ride a quiet bus will have that option. Larsen will ride a Double Tall double-decker bus marked with a sign “Commute with Congressman Larsen.” A 60-foot articulated bus will follow to accommodate the anticipated larger ridership. Both buses will travel on Route 413. Members of the press and public are invited to attend. Details follow. What: Commute with Congressman Larsen Community Transit commuters and reporters are invited to hear from Larsen about his work on transportation issues, as well as ask questions on topics of their choice. When: Tuesday, September 1 7:55 a.m. – 9:00 a.m. (approx.) Where: Swamp Creek Park & Ride 3115 164th Street SW Lynnwood ###
08.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, next week will hold six roundtable discussions with veterans across Northwest Washington. He welcomes all veterans who are residents of the Second Congressional District to join him to talk about veterans’ issues and how his office can help veterans get access to the services available to them. Representatives from the Seattle regional office of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the VA Puget Sound Health Care System, local veterans service providers and local WorkSource offices have been invited to help provide information and answer questions. Members of the press are invited to attend, as well as to publish information about the veterans roundtables. Details follow. Friday Harbor – Wednesday, August 26 11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. American Legion Post 163 110 1st Street Bellingham – Thursday, August 27 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. American Legion Post 7 1688 W Bakerview Road Oak Harbor – Friday, August 28 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 7392 3037 Goldie Road Stanwood – Friday, August 28 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. American Legion Post 92 27001 88th Avenue NW Burlington – Saturday, August 29 10:00 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. American Legion Post 91 721 E Fairhaven Avenue Mountlake Terrace – Saturday, August 29 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Mountlake Terrace Senior Center 23000 Lakeview Drive ###
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act by calling for stronger laws to protect voting rights and encourage people to participate in our democracy. The Voting Rights Act (VRA) was enacted on August 6, 1965, to prohibit racial discrimination in voting. In 2013, the Supreme Court struck down the section of the VRA that required jurisdictions with a history of discrimination against minority voters to clear election changes with the federal government. Larsen has introduced and cosponsored bills to restore voting rights for all eligible citizens. “The Voting Rights Act has broken down barriers for millions of people in our country to more fully participate in our democracy. But the Supreme Court decision two years ago cut deeply into the core of the VRA, allowing partisan state legislatures to pass voting laws that are disenfranchising citizens and undermining our democracy. “Laws requiring voters to show some kind of identification at the polls are in place in about two-thirds of states. These laws disproportionately affect minorities, people with disabilities, students, older Americans, transgendered individuals, and others who may not drive, or who cannot afford IDs or to leave work to get them. “States also are curtailing early voting, providing people with fewer opportunities to cast their ballots. “Voting is a fundamental right that must not be abridged. The fact that so many people face barriers to casting their ballot is destructive to our democracy. We should be ashamed that our country is putting up barriers to the vote rather than breaking them down. “My goal is to make it easier for people to cast their vote and engage in our democracy. The America Votes Act is a straightforward bill to fight voter identification laws by allowing voters to sign a sworn written statement attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification required at their polling place. And I am cosponsoring the Voter Empowerment Act, which is comprehensive legislation to update and improve our country’s voting system. “Congress must seize the opportunity today to make sure that our country’s voting rights legacy 50 years from now empowers all citizens with their Constitutional right to vote,” Larsen said. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Citizens’ fundamental right to vote would have more protection if a bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is enacted. In advance of the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act next week, Larsen today reintroduced the America Votes Act of 2015. The bill would allow voters to sign a sworn written statement attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification required at their polling place. “Instead of looking for ways to keep people from voting, we should be looking for ways to break down barriers so all people can fully participate in our democracy. The America Votes Act is a straightforward bill to fight voter identification laws that disenfranchise citizens and undermine our democracy. As our country commemorates the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, Congress should seize this opportunity to protect the vote for all eligible citizens,” Larsen said. The Voting Rights Act (VRA) was enacted on August 6, 1965, to prohibit racial discrimination in voting. In 2013, the Supreme Court struck down the section of the VRA that required jurisdictions with a history of discrimination against minority voters to clear election changes with the federal government. Larsen’s bill would help correct discrimination resulting from state voter ID laws. The bill has the support of 33 other members of Congress: James Clyburn, SC-06, Earl Blumenauer, OR-03, Diana DeGette, CO-0, Keith Ellison, MN-05, Sam Farr, CA-20, Judy Chu, CA-27, Adam Smith, WA-09, Eleanor Holmes Norton, DC-AL, Wm. Lacy Clay, MO-01, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Elijah Cummings, MD-07, Sheila Jackson Lee, TX-18, Niki Tsongas, MA-03, Janice Hahn, CA-44, Joyce Beatty, OH-03, Cedric Richmond, LA-02, Matt Cartwright, PA-17, Steve Israel, NY-03, Jim Himes, CT-04, Denny Heck, WA-10, Sean Patrick Maloney, NY-18, Steve Cohen, TN-09, Danny K. Davis, IL-07, Hank Johnson, GA-04, Ted Deutch, FL-21, Derek Kilmer, WA-06, David Cicilline, RI-01, Elizabeth Esty, CT-05, Jim McDermott, WA-07, Gregory W. Meeks, NY-05, Dina Tutus, NV-01, Bobby Rush, IL-01, Sandford Bishop, Jr., GA-02. More than 30 states have passed laws that require some kind of identification from people before they can vote. Several independent analyses of elections have shown that in-person voter fraud is a nonissue. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today voted to make sure transportation projects nationwide will continue to receive funding through summer construction season. Larsen voted for and the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3236, a bill that provides a three-month extension for the Highway Trust Fund. Larsen also expressed frustration that Congress continues to fail to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. “The Highway Trust Fund extension I voted for today will keep workers on the job making critical repairs and upgrades to roads, bridges, highways and transit systems all over the country. In Northwest Washington, projects will continue to update the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal and to improve roads around the Arlington airport that are key routes for moving goods to market. “Now our economy depends on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee moving forward with a long-term transportation bill, like the GROW AMERICA Act that I helped introduce. As the Senate finalizes its transportation bill, the two chambers can work out differences and produce a real, sustainable solution to invest in our country’s roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. “I am frustrated Congress has failed once again to renew the Export-Import Bank. The Bank supports thousands of jobs at companies of all sizes by helping these businesses get their goods into the hands of consumers worldwide. Each day that our businesses of all sizes are without the export financing is a day they have less opportunity to create jobs and grow our economy,” Larsen said. The Highway Trust Fund is set to expire on July 31. It is the primary source of federal investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. The extension now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, today called on the U.S. Senate to keep federal transportation dollars flowing to states and local communities by quickly passing a short-term extension of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF). The HTF is set to expire on July 31. It is the primary source of federal investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. The Senate is working on a six-year transportation bill that includes only three years of funding. The House has passed a short-term HTF extension, and Larsen wants the House to do its own work in regular order on a long-term transportation bill. “The Senate’s transportation bill is not the must-pass piece of legislation that some are claiming. The bill marks progress on a long-term solution to our country’s desperate need for reliable investment in roads, bridges, highways and transit. The only must-pass bill right now is a short-term Highway Trust Fund extension that keeps workers on the job while Congress gets a long-term bill done the right way. “The Senate should pass a short-term HTF extension with a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, another critical tool that creates jobs and grows our economy, and send it back to the House for a vote. “Congress has the chance to get a long-term bill done right. In its current form, the Senate bill fails to make critical increases in transportation funding. It does not address our crumbling major bridges, at-grade rail crossings, or fairness in transportation funding for mid-sized cities. It also changes the way the Washington State Ferry system is funded, which may lead to delays and deficits for Washingtonians who rely on ferries. “I want to see the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee move forward with its own long-term transportation bill, like the GROW AMERICA Act that I helped introduce. Then the two chambers can work out differences and produce a real, sustainable solution to invest in our country’s roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. “Passing the extension will give Congress the time to do the transportation bill right. And it will keep workers on the job around the country who are making critical repairs and upgrades to infrastructure right now,” Larsen said. Larsen recently met with local elected officials, economic development groups, public works departments and other transportation stakeholders across Northwest Washington about their communities’ transportation needs and the role of federal funding. He also recently released a report, “Keeping Our Economy Moving: Northwest Washington’s Transportation Needs,” that explains why transportation infrastructure is so important to Washington state’s economy, why Congress must act, and what he is doing to support a long-term transportation solution. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about his vote against the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act (H. R. 3009). House Republicans rushed the bill for a vote following the death earlier this month of Kathryn Steinle, who was shot allegedly by a man who U.S. authorities had deported five times. The Act takes away federal grant money from public safety efforts in sanctuary cities, where local law enforcement agencies have flexibility in their decisions about reporting immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally. The negatively affected grant programs are the Community-Oriented Policing Services program (COPS), the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (Byrne-JAG) and the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). “The death of Ms. Steinle warrants a serious debate in Congress about how to help prevent similar tragedies in the future. Unfortunately House Republicans rushed this bill to the floor with little debate and no hearing, which seems wholly disconnected from the gravity of the circumstances. I voted against this bill because it hurts community safety. “Cutting off critical support for community policing is not a solution to tragedies like this one. I have long supported all three of the grant programs that help local law enforcement keep their communities safe. The COPS program improves community policing and has helped cities and counties in my district buy new equipment and hire more officers. Byrne-JAG grants support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. And SCAAP reimburses states when they jail criminals who are undocumented immigrants. “Limiting access to these programs is detrimental to the ability of local law enforcement agencies to carry out their jobs and keep communities safe,” Larsen said. ### Larsen: Medida de ‘Ciudades Santuario’ del GOP Daña la Seguridad de la Comunidad WASHINGTON, D.C.—El congresista Rick Larsen del distrito 2 de Washington hizo la siguiente declaración hoy acerca de su voto en contra de la medida de Hacer Cumplir la Ley de Ciudades Santuario (H.R. 3009). Los Republicanos de la Cámara apresuraron la votación después de la muerte a principios de este mes de Kathryn Steinle, quien recibió un disparo presuntamente a manos de un hombre que las autoridades estadounidenses habían deportado cinco veces. La ley le quita subvenciones federales a los esfuerzos de seguridad publica en las ciudades santuario, donde la policía y las fuerzas de orden local tienen flexibilidad para decidir cuando informar acerca de inmigrantes que se encuentran en los Estados Unidos ilegalmente. Los programas de subvenciones afectados negativamente son el programa de Servicios de Policía para la Comunidad (COPS), el Programa de Asistencia de Justicia Edward Byrne Memorial (Byrne-JAG) y el Programa Estatal de Asistencia de Criminal Extranjero (SCAAP). “La muerte de la señorita Steinle merece un debate serio en el Congreso acerca de cómo ayudar a prevenir tragedias similares en el futuro. Desafortunadamente los Republicanos de la Cámara se apresuraron con esta medida al pleno de la Cámara con poco tiempo para debatirla y sin una audiencia, lo que parece totalmente desconectado de la gravedad de las circunstancias. He votado en contra de esta medida porque daña la seguridad comunitaria. “Recortar apoyo critico para la policía comunitaria no es una solución para una tragedia como ésta. Durante mucho tiempo yo he apoyado los tres programas de subvenciones que ayudan a la policía local a mantener seguras sus comunidades. El programa COPS mejora la policía comunitaria y ha ayudado a las ciudades y condados en mi distrito a comprar nuevos equipos y contratar a más oficiales. Lasubvenciones Byrne-JAG dan apoyo a una amplia variedad de actividades para prevenir y controlar la delincuencia y mejorar el sistema de justicia penal. Y SCAAP reembolsa a los estados cuando encarcelan a delincuentes que son inmigrantes indocumentados. “Limitar el acceso a estos programas perjudica la habilidad de las agencias de orden local para llevar a cabo su trabajo y mantener nuestras comunidades seguras,” dijo Larsen. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would establish a national system for labeling food products that do not include genetically modified organisms (GMOs), while interfering with existing voluntary labeling of these products. H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015, would hurt consumer choice and businesses’ ability to label and sell their non-GMO products. “The scientific case against GMOs in foods is not compelling. Scientific consensus from respected organizations like the American Medical Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the National Academies of Science is that GMO foods are generally safe. “However, I have heard from my constituents about their concerns regarding this bill. I also understand that businesses have reasonable concerns about getting their food onto store shelves if they are facing 50 different requirements for labeling – or not labeling – their products. “But my biggest concern with this bill is that consumers should have the choice to seek out non-GMO products. This bill does not allow a voluntary approach to GMO food labeling. The Non-GMO Project in Bellingham has been a leader in non-GMO certification and labeling, and they should be allowed to continue their work,” Larsen said. The House passed the bill by a vote of 275 to 150. ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that Edmonds Community College will receive a grant to support students from developing countries to study for a year in Washington state. Edmonds Community College will receive $1.8 million from the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs for the Community College Initiative (CCI) Program. Edmonds Community College partners with Whatcom Community College and Pierce College to administer the Northwest CCI program. About 270 students from all over the world have studied at these colleges through the program. “Young leaders from around the world will have the opportunity to access high-quality education in Northwest Washington as a result of this federal grant. I applaud Edmonds Community College and its partners for their commitment to supporting students from developing countries who want to study fields like applied engineering, business management, information technology and more,” Larsen said. The year-long CCI program will support giving nearly 50 students access to educational programming, professional development and vocational skills training. Students also will learn first-hand about American society. More information on the CCI Program can be found here. ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about the agreement that the U.S. and other negotiating countries have reached to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon. “The agreement the Administration announced that aims to prevent Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon represents a pivotal step following many months of effort. I applaud the hard work and perseverance that President Obama and his team dedicated to reaching this agreement through diplomacy. It is clear the administration took a firm negotiating position. “Now that the agreement is complete, Congress should give the text a careful review to ensure the agreement protects U.S. interests. I am hopeful my colleagues in Congress will treat this agreement with the seriousness and attention it deserves. “I assess that the agreement is based on verifying Iran’s actions to uphold the terms of the deal, not on trusting the country’s commitment to peaceful nuclear activities. The deal allows international inspectors access to Iran’s nuclear supply chain and facilities to verify Iran’s progress. And under the agreement, Iran must greatly reduce its nuclear materials stockpile to a level below what is needed to create a bomb. “Now the burden is on Iran to open up its nuclear operations and carry out the terms of the agreement. Only when inspectors confirm Iran is following through with the agreement will the country get any sanctions relief. “Reaching a diplomatic agreement with Iran does not tie our country’s hands in any way. Should Iran break the deal, all options remain on the table,” Larsen said. ###
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted today to ensure job-creating transportation projects continue to receive funding through the summer construction season, while again calling on Congress to take up a long-term surface transportation bill that would invest in repairs and upgrades to roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. Larsen voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a five-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund, which is set to expire on July 31. The fund is the primary source of federal investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. Larsen also voted for a motion that would have allowed a House vote on the GROW AMERICA Act, a six-year, $478 billion surface transportation bill backed by the administration. Larsen is a cosponsor of the Act and has long called for sustainable and reliable transportation investments. Republicans voted down this measure. “Another short-term transportation patch, another affront to jobs and our economy. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. But the House made a little league move today by failing to make a long-term investment in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. “The short-term injection of money into the Highway Trust Fund will keep transportation projects moving forward over the summer. But without a long-term transportation bill like the GROW AMERICA Act that provides predictable investments for our nation’s roads, bridges, highways, and transit systems, we slam the brakes on the economy and jobs,” Larsen said. The two-month Highway Trust Fund patch, H.R. 3038, authorizes the fund through December18, 2015. Larsen recently met with local elected officials, economic development groups, public works departments and other transportation stakeholders across Northwest Washington about their communities’ transportation needs and the role of federal funding. He also recently released a report, “Keeping Our Economy Moving: Northwest Washington’s Transportation Needs,” that explains why transportation infrastructure is so important to Washington state’s economy, why Congress must act, and what he is doing to support a long-term transportation solution. ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his support for marriage equality this week by cosponsoring a bill that would ensure the United States Code reflects the U.S. Supreme Court’s recent decision that marriage is a civil right. The Amend the Code for Marriage Equality Act of 2015 would remove gendered terms, such as “husband” and “wife,” from the federal code, and replace them with more neutral terms, such as “spouse” and “married couple.” “The Supreme Court made the momentous and historic decision that marriage equality counts as equal justice under the law. Achieving marriage as a civil right took decades of work, and I am hopeful it will propel our country to put an end to discrimination in all of its forms. This bill takes our country in that direction by ensuring the words of our laws reflect that marriage equality is now the law of the land,” Larsen said. Rep. Lois Capps, CA-24, introduced the bill, H.R. 2976. Larsen also joined with 56 other members in asking the Department of Justice to ensure states comply with the recent Supreme Court ruling in providing marriage licenses to all couples. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a Republican Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) bill, H.R. 5, that takes funding away from low-income schools and districts and lowers standards designed to improve outcomes for all students. While the bill included Larsen’s bipartisan Local Taxpayer Relief Act (H.R. 1318) that he introduced with Rep. Kristi Noem, SD, Larsen said H.R. 5 takes the wrong overall approach to education reform. The Local Taxpayer Relief Act would provide Impact Aid payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes. “I have called on Congress to update and reauthorize the flawed No Child Left Behind standards, but this bill would only cause more problems for students, teachers, schools and states. “My bipartisan Impact Aid bill would ensure permanent, on-time payments for school districts where federal activity like military bases limits funding available to public schools through property taxes. While I am pleased Congress recognizes the value of supporting these school districts, the overall approach that H.R. 5 takes to education reform is wrong. I will continue working to pass my Impact Aid bill as part of an education reform bill that makes the right changes to the law. “Our country’s public education system should offer a high-quality education to all students, including those facing challenges such as poverty, disabilities, or those learning English for the first time. But this bill cuts support for low-income students by taking funding away from them to be used at wealthier schools. And it does not hold schools accountable for educating students with disabilities and other challenges to high standards. “Federal law should promote classroom innovations and efforts to prepare students for college and career, like those happening in Washington state. That is why I voted for the Democratic alternative to H.R. 5. This bill would provide robust funding for students and teachers, as well as ensuring students with disadvantages get the support they need to learn and succeed in the classroom. “Washington state public schools have hardworking students and a strong workforce of dedicated teachers and administrators. They deserve support from the federal government, not more roadblocks to progress,” Larsen said. Larsen called for Congress to reauthorize and update ESEA, also known as the No Child Left Behind Act, last summer, in light of the U.S. Department of Education’s decision to revoke Washington state’s waiver from the law, which means schools and student test scores must be evaluated under the flawed NCLB standards. ###
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Roads, bridges, highways and transit systems would receive more reliable funding that would help keep local economies strong if Congress passes a bill to raise the federal gas tax that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, cosponsored today. H.R. 680, the UPDATE Act, would raise the gas tax by 15 cents per gallon over three years to pay for needed investments in the country’s aging infrastructure. Larsen met last week with local elected officials, economic development groups, public works departments and other transportation stakeholders across Northwest Washington about their communities’ transportation needs and the role of federal funding. He also recently released a report, “Keeping Our Economy Moving: Northwest Washington’s Transportation Needs,” that explains why transportation infrastructure is so important to Washington state’s economy, why Congress must act, and what he is doing to support a long-term transportation solution. “When I talked with local transportation leaders, the message I got was that Congress needs to act quickly. Federal funds make up about a quarter of Washington state’s transportation budget each year. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. Raising the gas tax for the first time in more than 20 years will mean states and cities can count on funds to upgrade aging bridges, make rail crossings safer and expand transit options to reduce traffic congestion. “Our country’s transportation funding is running on empty. It’s time to fuel up the economy by making sustainable investments in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. Without predictable federal transportation investments, we slam the brakes on creating jobs and growing our economy,” Larsen said. The federal gas tax currently stands at 18.4 cents per gallon, and it was last raised in 1993. The biggest source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit systems, the Highway Trust Fund, is set to expire on July 31, unless Congress acts. As a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Larsen has long pushed for sustainable investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. ###
07.06.2015	Last week, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, talked with local officials and transportation stakeholders through Northwest Washington to learn more about the role federal funding plays in supporting strong infrastructure. He also toured local transportation projects that depend on federal funding. The Highway Trust Fund is the biggest source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. The Fund is set to expire on July 31 unless Congress acts to pass a new transportation bill. Larsen released a report, “Keeping Our Economy Moving: Northwest Washington’s Transportation Needs,” that explains why transportation infrastructure is so important to Washington state’s economy, why Congress must act, and what he is doing to support a long-term transportation solution. Read more about Larsen’s work on transportation in the local news coverage below. Everett Herald: Snohomish County is eager for federal transportation dollars Larsen’s main goal was to draw attention to the July 31 deadline for Congress to extend the Highway Trust Fund, the largest source of federal dollars for transportation projects. … “The patchwork approach doesn’t work,” Larsen said. “It’ll end up slamming the brakes on the economy.” Everett Herald Editorial Board: How to get where we’re going on transportation U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen is in Snohomish County this week to visit Marysville, Lynnwood and Everett to discuss the Grow America Act that he co-sponsored in the House. Everett Herald Op-Ed: State’s economy depends on federal transportation bill By Rep. Rick Larsen …But on July 31, the biggest source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit — the Highway Trust Fund — will expire. If Congress fails to act, the consequences for Northwest Washington residents and businesses are real. Washington state's ferry system will receive less investment, contributing to delays. Community Transit's Swift II bus line progress will be hampered. And needed upgrades to I-5 that would improve traffic congestion, like a new interchange in Marysville, will be held up. Without a long-term transportation bill that provides predictable investments for our nation's roads, bridges, highways and transit systems, we are slamming the brakes on our economy and jobs. The Arlington Times: Short tunnel under the tracks on Grove a possibility U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen of Arlington has introduced a bill that could pave the way to tunnel under the railroad tracks on Grove Street. … “Local officials have told me that improving at-grade crossings is critical for safety and traffic flow. Rail incidents are most likely to happen at these crossings, and they can lead to traffic congestion that delays people on their way to work, goods on their way to market, and public safety vehicles on their way to save lives. As our rail lines carry more goods, including crude oil, I am working to improve community safety,” Larsen said. Skagit Valley Herald: Larsen, county leaders talk transportation The county commissioners and other transportation authorities detailed the shortcomings of the infrastructure county residents use every day, and looked to Larsen for an update on how the federal government can help. … “All of this is great information for me to know so that we can fulfill the nation’s transportation needs in the best way possible,” Larsen said. “We can’t have a successful economy without investing in infrastructure.” Bellingham Herald: State funds five major road projects in Whatcom County Larsen was in Bellingham on Thursday, July 2, to talk about federal transportation funds. … For Bellingham and Whatcom Transportation Authority, federal funds are a bigger slice of the revenue pie than state funds. Transportation officials made sure Larsen knew what their needs were. One bill introduced by Larsen, the At-Grade Crossing Enhancement Act, could help Bellingham pay for an expensive rerouting of the rail line near Cornwall Avenue and a bridge that would take three railroad crossings off street level. South Whidbey Record: Congressman Larsen visits Coupeville to address transportation plans Roads, bridges, highways, ferries — all are essential for the economic health of the state and Island County, and Congress needs to pass a long-term bill to pay for critical infrastructure, Congressman Rick Larsen told county officials this week. … “Without that predictable investment we are in danger of slamming the brakes on our economy,” Larsen said.
06.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today slammed House Republicans for their inaction on the Export-Import Bank, putting thousands of jobs at risk. The Bank’s charter expires today. The Export-Import Bank gives Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes access to critical financing to sell their goods overseas, and it has supported more than $71 billion in exports from the Second Congressional District since 2007. In 2012 and 2013, the bank returned $1.1 billion to the U.S. Treasury. “Helping our businesses sell their goods overseas creates jobs here at home. Yet Republicans’ refusal to allow a vote to renew the Export-Import Bank puts jobs at risk in Northwest Washington and across the country. Without the Bank, hundreds of small businesses around the country will not have the financing they need to get their products into the hands of consumers worldwide. “Allowing the Bank to expire will hurt U.S. competitiveness. With about 60 other export credit agencies backing foreign competitors, the Export-Import Bank levels the international playing field for U.S. exporters and workers. Without it, our manufacturers of all sizes are at a serious disadvantage. “If we want a healthy economy, our country cannot afford to lose the jobs and growth the Export-Import Bank creates. I call on my colleagues to stop obstructing progress for the middle class and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank,” Larsen said. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year, and he signed a petition with other House members to force a vote on the bill. The Bank will continue servicing existing loans after its charter expires, but it cannot issue new financing. ###
06.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded President Obama’s action to raise overtime pay for millions of workers. The President’s proposed rule would raise the cap on overtime pay salary eligibility from $23,660 to $50,440, affecting nearly 5 million salaried workers. “Even as our economy is growing and creating jobs, not everyone is sharing in the benefits. The vast majority of income increases in the last few years have gone to top earners, while low- and middle-class workers’ wages have stagnated. Pay for the time workers put in beyond the 40-hour work week has not kept up with families’ living costs. “Giving workers a raise by compensating them more fairly for their overtime helps the economy work better for everyone. Raising overtime pay will give hardworking families a bigger step up into a secure future,” Larsen said. The proposed rule would set overtime pay eligibility to the 40th percentile of weekly earnings for full-time workers. ###
06.29.2015	MARYSVILLE, Wash.—Intersections of railroads and roadways would get new funding for safety and efficiency upgrades if Congress passes a new bill introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The At-Grade Crossing Enhancement (ACE) Act of 2015 creates $300 million in annual grants to upgrade at-grade crossings, where rail incidents are most likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. Larsen will discuss the bill during a tour of at-grade crossings in Marysville today with Mayor Jon Nehring. Larsen has long pushed to improve the safety of communities near rail lines in light of the growing amount of crude oil traveling by rail. He introduced the bill after receiving input from local officials about the high need and low funding available to improve at-grade crossings. “Local officials have told me that improving at-grade crossings is critical for safety and traffic flow. Rail incidents are most likely to happen at these crossings, and they can lead to traffic congestion that delays people on their way to work, goods on their way to market, and public safety vehicles on their way to save lives. As our rail lines carry more goods, including crude oil, I am working to improve community safety. I introduced the ACE Act to create real solutions to the impacts of rail traffic increases,” Larsen said. The ACE Act creates $300 million in annual grants to upgrade at-grade crossings, improve safety, spark freight mobility, and provide training and technical assistance. The program will be administered by the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which has experience in freight mobility projects and rail safety needs. State, local and tribal governments, along with Metropolitan Planning Organizations, will be eligible to apply for grants to improve rail crossings, relocate rail lines, and provide training and technical assistance for future improvements. The ACE Act complements action the FRA announced today to use Google Maps to provide better information to drivers about rail crossings. The partnership will incorporate FRA data about at-grade crossing locations nationwide into Google Maps, as well as providing drivers using Google navigation with alerts when they near crossings. Larsen applauded the new partnership. “At-grade crossing accidents are on the rise. Better safety information and improved infrastructure can help save lives,” Larsen said. The ACE Act will help provide local governments with the funds they need to pay for at-grade crossing improvements, said Paul Roberts, an Everett Councilmember and President of the Association of Washington Cities. “When I met with Congressman Larsen recently, I told him that Washington’s cities can’t handle the traffic and safety impacts of increased rail traffic on their own. With a single at-grade crossing project costing up to $30 million, we need to work cooperatively with the federal government to make needed infrastructure improvements. I applaud Congressman Larsen for introducing this important legislation to move forward on projects that are going to increase our safety while improving our economic competitiveness,” Roberts said. Larsen recently released a report about the importance of federal transportation investments for Northwest Washington’s jobs and economy. A fact sheet about the bill is available here. Full bill text is available here. ###
06.26.2015	New report details consequences for PNW if Congress fails to act WASHINGTON, D.C.—Without Congressional action soon, the biggest source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit systems will expire, which has clear consequences for Pacific Northwest infrastructure, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The Highway Trust Fund is set to expire on July 31 unless Congress acts to pass a new transportation bill. Larsen today released a report, “Keeping Our Economy Moving: Northwest Washington’s Transportation Needs,” that explains why transportation infrastructure is so important to Washington state’s economy, why Congress must act, and what he is doing to support a long-term transportation solution. The report includes specific examples in each county in the Second Congressional District where federal funding has advanced or will advance critical transportation projects. “Washington state cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. Transportation means jobs. Repairing and maintaining our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems puts people to work and keeps people and goods moving so our economy can grow. “If Congress fails to act, the consequences for Northwest Washington residents and businesses are real. Washington state’s ferry system will receive less investment, contributing to delays. Community Transit’s Swift II bus line progress will be hampered. And needed upgrades to I-5 that would improve traffic congestion, like a new interchange in Marysville, will be held up. This is unacceptable. “I am pushing for a long-term transportation bill that will provide reliable investments in our infrastructure. Without this investment in our roads, bridges, highways and transit, we are slamming the brakes on jobs and our economy,” Larsen said. Larsen will talk with local officials and transportation stakeholders through Northwest Washington next week to learn more about the role federal funding plays in supporting strong infrastructure. He also will tour local transportation projects that depend on federal funding. Highlights of Larsen’s schedule are below. Details will be forthcoming, and members of the press are welcome to attend. Monday, June 29: Tour Marysville’s at-grade crossings with Mayor Nehring. Larsen will announce a new bill to fund at-grade crossing improvements. Tuesday, June 30: Roundtable with Snohomish County transportation stakeholders. Tour of transportation projects in Lynnwood. Wednesday, July 1: Roundtable with Skagit County transportation stakeholders. Roundtable with Island County transportation stakeholders. Thursday, July 2: Roundtable with Whatcom County transportation stakeholders. Tour of transportation projects in Bellingham with city Public Works officials. ###
06.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today issued the following statement about the Supreme Court’s decision that marriage is a civil right for all Americans, regardless of sexual orientation. The Court ruled in favor of marriage equality by a vote of 5-4. “Our country finally counts marriage equality as equal justice under the law. With today’s Supreme Court decision, all Americans have a right to marry the person they love. This momentous and historic decision is great news for equality in our country after decades of work. It affirms that marriage is a civil right that everyone in our country, regardless of sexual orientation, should be able to enjoy. “I am proud to be from Washington state, which has led the way in extending marriage rights for all. This day has been long in the making, and I am deeply pleased that our country has broken down the barrier to marriage equality. “I am hopeful today’s win for equality will propel our country forward to put an end to discrimination in all forms. I will keep working with my colleagues in Congress to make sure people in the LGBT community receive equal protection under the law,” Larsen said. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill reauthorizing a program to help workers whose jobs have been negatively affected by trade, called Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA). The bill (Senate Amendment to H.R. 1295) also renews programs to facilitate trade and economic growth in developing countries, such as the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA). AGOA gives African countries strong access to U.S. markets and supports these countries in building their economies. Larsen previously voted in favor of TAA, though that bill did not pass the House. The program is part of a larger package of trade bills, including Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Larsen voted in favor of TPA, which has now passed the House and Senate and awaits the President’s signature. “I have long supported TAA as a way to help workers whose jobs have been hurt by an increasingly globalized economy. I am pleased the House voted today to renew this program to help workers get the training they need to get back into the job market quickly. “In recent years, TAA has helped nearly 2,900 workers in the Second Congressional District and more than 17,500 workers in Washington state with job training and income support. The TAA measure the House passed renews the program for six years, the longest extension since 1986, with $450 million of funding each year. It also expands who is eligible for the program’s benefits. TAA is an important part of our country’s approach to trade. “Trade matters for a healthy economy in the Pacific Northwest. Opening up new markets for our businesses to sell their goods and services is a key way to help them grow and create jobs here at home. The 2015 TPA bill gives the President the authority he needs to finalize trade agreements based on strong direction from Congress. “The President now has a package of trade bills that will help level the playing field for our workers while upholding labor and environmental protections we have worked so hard in this country to achieve. I look forward to his signature on TPA, TAA, and the other measures that will better position our country to compete in the global economy,” Larsen said. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision upholding health care subsidies for millions of Americans as a victory for Washington state and the country. The court ruled in the King v. Burwell decision that all Americans, regardless of the state they live in, can access health care subsidies through the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today’s Supreme Court decision marks a major victory for people across Washington state and the country. Twice now the highest court has ruled in favor of the Affordable Care Act. The law is legal, and it is working. The Affordable Care Act is here to stay “Since the ACA became law in 2010, the number of uninsured people in Washington state has dropped 40 percent, to the lowest rate since 1987. In the counties in my district, more than 100,000 seniors, nearly 42,000 kids and 209,000 adults can receive preventive care at no cost to them. About 7,000 young adults in the district can stay covered through their parents’ insurance. And people of all ages can no longer be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions. “Today’s decision secures access to affordable health care for millions of people nationwide, no matter which state they call home. Middle class families and workers are better off because of the diverse array of options that all offer a high standard of affordable care. “I am hopeful today’s decision will allow positive changes in our health care system to continue to take root. Let’s put to rest partisan efforts in Congress to bring down this important, life-saving law,” Larsen said. ###
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—As House Republicans today held the 60th vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, called on Congress to instead focus on creating jobs and growing the economy by reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank. Larsen voted against but the House passed H.R. 1190, which would repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), an ACA mechanism to respond to high rates of growth in Medicare spending. While not yet set up because of slowing growth in health care costs under the ACA, the IPAB would recommend strategies to contain Medicare costs. It is prohibited from recommending changes that would ration care, increase costs for beneficiaries, reduce benefits, or change eligibility. The bill pays for the IPAB repeal by cutting $8.85 billion from ACA’s Prevention and Public Health Fund, which supports programs designed to prevent strokes, cancer, obesity and more, some of the country’s biggest health problems. “Medicare is a cornerstone of our social safety net. I have long fought to protect Medicare’s guaranteed benefit, while working to rein in costs by cracking down on fraud to keep Medicare strong for generations to come. “Because ACA has so effectively slowed growth in health care costs, IPAB is not even set up yet. Republicans continue to push proposals that would end Medicare as we know it while falsely waving this bill as an accomplishment for seniors. To make this stunt worse, Republicans are cutting prevention programs focused on fixing some of our country’s most pressing health problems,” Larsen said. Meanwhile, the Export-Import Bank is set to expire on June 30, and the Republican-controlled House has yet to take action. The Bank gives Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes access to critical financing to sell their goods overseas, and it has supported more than $71 billion in exports from the Second Congressional District since 2007. “If we want a healthy economy, our country cannot afford to lose the jobs and growth the Export-Import Bank creates. Congress could vote today to reauthorize the job-creating Export-Import Bank. Instead, House Republicans are stopping progress for the middle class by wasting time and money voting for the 60th time to undermine a law that is working,” Larsen said. Larsen earlier this year helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank for seven years. He led efforts to reauthorize the bank in 2012. ###
06.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell (WA) today applauded the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) announcement of an additional $7.6 million in grants for recovery efforts, including removal of debris deposited in the wake of flooding and mudslides that occurred in March and April last year. “Today’s announcement demonstrates the commitment toward a full recovery for the communities affected by the State Route 530 landslide. More than one year after the tragedy, I’m encouraged that Oso, Darrington, Arlington, the Stillaguamish Tribe and the Sauk-Suiattle Tribe continue to receive the resources they need,” DelBene said. “I will continue to push for resources to help the region recover and for research into how we can prevent and mitigate tragedies from future disasters.” “The communities affected by the State Route 530 slide more than a year ago continue to show admirable strength and resilience as they heal and recover. These funds from FEMA underscore the federal government’s ongoing commitment to helping these communities rebuild,” Larsen said. “The communities and families affected by the mudslide still need our support and I’m so grateful to see FEMA’s continued commitment to our region,” said Murray. “I will keep working to make sure the federal government remains committed to help our communities recover from this tragedy and mitigate the impact of any future incident.” “I’m pleased that FEMA continues to work closely with WSDOT and the Oso community to provide federal resources to offset the enormous costs that were incurred during the immediate response and cleanup of debris that severely damaged the area and SR530. I will continue to closely monitor progress and work to ensure federal funding flows to support the community’s ongoing recovery efforts,” Cantwell said. Contractor crews removed and processed 200,000 cubic yards of mainly earthen or vegetative material, and used much of that material to fill holes and trenches at the site. Approximately 85 percent of the cost of this work will be compensated by the FEMA grants. ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to give the President authority to finalize trade agreements. Larsen backed the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 (H.R. 2146) because trade supports jobs and a growing economy in the Second Congressional District and in Washington state. Larsen also voted last week to reauthorize a program to help workers whose jobs have been affected by trade, called Trade Adjustment Assistance. That measure did not pass the House, though Larsen continues to call for its renewal. “Today I voted in favor of opening up new markets for businesses of all sizes in my district to sell their goods overseas and create jobs here at home. The 2015 TPA bill gives the President the authority he needs to finalize trade agreements based on strong direction from Congress. And the bill will help level the playing field for our workers while upholding labor and environmental protections we have worked so hard in this country to achieve. “There is more work to do to strengthen our country’s approach to trade by renewing TAA. The TAA program has helped workers whose jobs have been hurt by trade for the last 40 years, because Democrats understood the job shifts likely to result from an increasingly global economy. In recent years, TAA has helped nearly 2,900 workers in the Second Congressional District and more than 17,500 workers in Washington state with job training and income support. “The TAA measure before the House renews the program for six years, the longest extension since 1986, with $450 million of funding each year. It also expands who is eligible for the program’s benefits. “I supported TAA when the House voted last week, and I remain committed to the program. We had the chance to pass the program in tandem with TPA, but Democrats blocked it and TAA failed. I expect the House to reconsider TAA, and I look forward to voting for TAA again,” Larsen said. ###
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Congress to support the vital work of the U.S. intelligence community with responsible, long-term budgeting. Larsen voted against the Fiscal Year 2016 Intelligence Authorization Act (H.R.2596), which circumvents sequester spending caps by using a war funding account that is not subject to the caps. The bill puts 40 percent more money in the war funding account for intelligence activities than the President requested. “The success of our intelligence community in keeping our country safe depends on responsible investments. Using budgetary subterfuge to evade the sequester caps prevents the CIA and other intelligence agencies from planning for the long-term. “Congress should address the harmful effects of sequester across all of our national priorities, rather than using tricks to protect just one part of the budget. This gimmick fails to acknowledge that a well-educated workforce, scientific research and a healthy economy are critical to national security,” Larsen said. Larsen criticized two other provisions in the bill. It prohibits transferring individuals from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, even if they have been cleared for release by the U.S. government. And the bill restricts access that an independent board has to review the government’s counterterrorism actions. The Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board is tasked with helping protect civil liberties and privacy. “While H.R. 2596 contains provisions I support, including those that enhance our cooperation with our foreign partners, I cannot support this bill. It fails to address our budgetary challenges in a responsible way. And it fails to respect the due process rights that our Constitution guarantees. Congress can do better in taking an ‘intelligent’ approach to national security,” Larsen said. ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Congress to address the harmful effects of across-the-board spending caps in a responsible way. Larsen voted against the Fiscal Year 2016 Defense Department Appropriations bill (H.R.2685), which circumvents sequester spending caps for the military by transferring $38 billion in base spending to a war funding account that is not subject to the caps. “The budgeting chicanery in this bill does not serve the long-term needs of our military or our national interest. Adding $38 billion in regular defense spending to the war funding account gives the Defense Department a temporary free pass while continuing with harmful cuts to other national priorities like infrastructure and education. “We should address the harmful effects of sequester across all of our national priorities, rather than using tricks to protect just one part of the budget. “I agree with Defense Secretary Carter that this gimmick harms the military because it does not provide a stable base for long-term budgeting. It also fails to acknowledge that a well-educated workforce, scientific research and a healthy economy are also critical to national security,” Larsen said. Larsen previously voted for the annual defense policy bill, the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act, but in doing so called on Republicans to address sequester spending caps. ###
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, House U.S.-China Working Group co-founders Senator Mark Kirk (IL) and Representative Rick Larsen (WA), along with current co-chair Representative Charles Boustany (LA), commemorated 10 years of the Working Group’s successes educating Members of Congress and their staffs about the importance of U.S.-China relations. The U.S.-China Working Group continues to provide a forum for open and frank discussion among U.S. and Chinese leaders. Kirk, Larsen and Boustany spoke with policy experts and business leaders at an event today on Capitol Hill to celebrate 10 years of the Working Group’s bipartisan engagement with the Chinese government, private industry and Congressional Members. “The friendship between the United States and China is the most important bilateral relationship of the 21st century,” Senator Kirk said. “Chinese tourism to the U.S. is expected to increase by 219 percent over the next four years. Our nations grow more interdependent every day, and I thank my colleagues for their work to keep Congress informed of the continued importance of our relationship with China." “As the two largest economies in the world, the U.S. and China cannot afford not to engage. Ten years ago, it was clear to me that Congress needed to play a bigger role in U.S.-China relations. Since then, the Working Group has helped members and their staffs gain a deeper understanding of the many facets of our country’s relationship with China, from trade to energy to military relations,” Representative Larsen said. “Those of us from the West Coast understand Asia is not the Far East, but the Near West. As Asian economies grow, we have an opportunity to be a part of that growth in a bigger way than ever before. I am pleased to continue working with Senator Kirk and Representative Boustany to keep Congress engaged in a continuous dialog with China.” “The U.S.-China Working Group has been a bright spot of bipartisanship in Congress over the last ten years, bringing Members together to build informed consensus on U.S.-China policy in the 21st century. As relations between our two nations continue to develop and intertwine, the U.S.-China Working Group’s mission is more important than ever,” Representative Boustany said. Kirk and Larsen founded the U.S.-China Working Group in 2005 as a way to increase Congressional engagement in relations with Asia, particularly China. The Working Group has led several trips to China for Members and staff that have focused on a variety of issues, including energy, the environment, aerospace, military-to-military relations, manufacturing and more. The Working Group was the first foreign delegation to visit the manned-space launch center in Jiuquan, as well as the first civilian delegation to visit a People’s Liberation Army-Navy Song Class submarine. The Working Group also meets with Chinese officials who visit the United States, including most recently Ji Bingxuan, Vice Chairman of the National People's Congress, as well as briefing staff about key issues in the U.S.-China relationship. ###
06.09.2015	Spending Bill Also Cuts Vouchers For Veterans Experiencing Homelessness WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced he will not support a 2016 spending bill that severely underfunds transportation infrastructure. The FY2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill (H.R. 2577) fails to make needed investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit, hampering job creation and economic growth. The bill also provides no funding for the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program, which helps veterans experiencing homelessness. The House is set to vote on the bill as soon as tonight. “Investing in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems is the best way I know to create jobs and keep our economy moving. But the 2016 transportation funding bill fails to invest in the repairs and upgrades that our transportation system and our economy badly need. “The bill cuts opportunities for communities to fund new transportation projects through TIGER grants, while ignoring the small and mid-sized cities my TIGER CUBS bill would support. “Congress also must do more to invest in our bridges in the Northwest, which is another failure of this bill. The collapse of the Skagit River bridge on I-5 should be a wakeup call that we cannot delay investments in this critical part of our infrastructure. Our country should maintain our bridges until they are old, then replace them. I have previously introduced legislation to make large investments in bridge improvements nationwide, and I plan to reintroduce that legislation soon. “I have long been pushing to improve the safety of communities near rail lines carrying crude oil, and this bill falls short here too. Congress should put money behind the new federal safety rules, as well as addressing other safety gaps like improved at-grade rail crossings where rail incidents are mostly likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. I am working to bring more attention to this issue. I plan to introduce legislation to put more funding toward rail crossings, and get the Federal Railroad Administration more involved in planning and constructing crossings. “I am also deeply disappointed this bill does not provide funding for the HUD-VASH program to help veterans facing homelessness. Housing vouchers have helped many veterans in my district get permanent housing and on the path to independence. Cutting this program is an unacceptable way to treat veterans struggling with homelessness,” Larsen said. Provisions of note from the bill are below. Transportation Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grants funded at $100 million, which is $400 million less than FY 2015 and $1.15 billion less than the President’s request. Cuts funding for the Federal Aviation Administration’s NextGen modernization program by $100 million. Cuts Amtrak’s funding by $251 million and includes none of the $825 million requested by the President for Positive Train Control. Cuts $262 million from the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) budget. FRA is responsible for rail safety and inspections. Housing No funding for the Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. The bill allows HUD to take money from the Housing Trust to fund the program, but provides no direct funding, as it has in the past. The HUD-VASH program provides housing and supportive services for homeless and struggling veterans. This funding has gone to veterans in Snohomish, Skagit and Island counties in recent years. ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Mike Coffman, CO-06, and Suzan DelBene, WA-01, introduced a bill to help pay for improved security measures in schools, such as training for staff and students, and deterrents like lighting and locks. The School Safety Act of 2015 would reauthorize the Secure Our Schools program, which provides matching grants to local, state and tribal governments to meet schools’ individual security needs. “Schools must be a place where our students feel safe. I introduced this bill to help schools and communities assess and meet their unique safety needs. Sadly our country has not seen the end of violent crimes. Congress must do much more to make our schools and communities safer and shrink the cycle of violence. This bill helps empower schools to focus on what they do best: teaching our students and preparing them for their futures,” Larsen said. “School violence has hit my district and Colorado hard and I am committed to finding ways to make our schools safer. This bipartisan, common sense legislation will help fund important school safety programs across the country. From education to improved technology, our schools can be made safer through a comprehensive approach to dealing with school violence. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand with me in fighting to make our schools a safe place to learn," Coffman said. “I’m strongly committed to ensuring the safety and security of our students. While there is no one law that will prevent every single instance of senseless violence, like last year’s tragic shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School, we can and must do more. The School Safety and Security Act is an important first step and I’m honored to help introduce it. This bipartisan legislation will provide critical resources to keep our schools safe, ensure teachers and administrators are adequately trained in security procedures, and improve notification and response technologies in schools across the country,” DelBene said. Violence in schools has continued at a steady pace in recent years, with tragic shootings at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in Marysville, Wash., in October 2014, and at Arapahoe High School in Centennial, Colo., in December 2013. The Washington State School Directors’ Association has endorsed the bill. The Secure Our Schools program takes a comprehensive approach to preventing violence in schools based on schools’ unique needs. Matching funds can pay for physical deterrents, security assessments, security training and coordination with local law enforcement. The Act reauthorizes the program and updates it to allow funding to cover emergency communications systems with local law enforcement. A factsheet about the bill is available here. Full text of the bill is available here. ###
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded Senate passage of the USA Freedom Act, a bill to end the government’s bulk collection of Americans’ phone record data. Larsen voted for and the House of Representatives passed the bill on May 13. The bipartisan bill (H.R. 2048) makes a number of needed reforms to government surveillance programs. Larsen has been a vocal advocate of reforming the government’s surveillance programs following revelations about the National Security Agency’s (NSA) bulk data collection. Last Congress, Larsen introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act, which aimed to increase transparency by allowing technology companies to disclose the volume and type of information they were ordered to turn over to the government. A version of this proposal is included in the USA Freedom Act. “The USA Freedom Act moves our country in the right direction toward respecting the public’s right to privacy and protecting national security. “The bill puts a stop to the government’s indiscriminate bulk collection of information about Americans. And it demands much more transparency about the government’s surveillance activities, in part by allowing tech companies to disclose orders from the government to hand over phone data. The American public deserves to know what data the government collects. “I am also pleased the bill directs the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to begin releasing information about its decisions. Like the rest of our judiciary, the court’s activities should be subject to the light of day so the public can see the body of law the court is creating. “The privacy advocate position the bill creates on the court also is an important check on the government’s activities. The advocate will be responsible for upholding the public’s civil liberties and pushing back against government intrusion into people’s privacy,” Larsen said. Sections of the Patriot Act under which the government conducts surveillance expired on June 1. The USA Freedom Act addresses these provisions. ###
06.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, introduced to fund estuary improvement projects in the Puget Sound region and nationwide. Larsen introduced the bipartisan bill with Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, in February. H.R. 944 would reauthorize the National Estuary Program through 2020, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. “Estuaries like the Puget Sound are drivers of a healthy environment and a strong economy. These unique habitats support many species of fish, birds and other wildlife. Healthy estuaries also sustain economic activity like fishing, tourism and outdoor recreation. “In addition to improving habitat for critical wildlife like salmon, restoring estuaries can have important carbon sequestration effects, as a report last year about the Snohomish Estuary found. Currently planned and in-progress restoration projects will result in at least 2.55 million tons of CO2 sequestered from the atmosphere over the next 100 years. This is the equivalent of a year’s worth of emissions from half a million vehicles. “I am pleased my colleagues have voted in favor of ensuring local organizations across the country can continue their work to protect and restore estuaries to keep these habitats vital today and for future generations,” Rep. Larsen said. “Tonight’s vote again demonstrates the bipartisan support for sensible, cost-effective programs that protect our unique ecosystems across the country. Always a willing partner on a wide-range of issues, I appreciate Representative Larsen’s continued leadership to keep our waters clean for future generations,” Rep. LoBiondo said. Larsen has long supported estuary restoration in the Pacific Northwest. For example, the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in Washington state when it is finished. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, helps build the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. Larsen and LoBiondo introduced the estuary restoration bill during the last Congress. The bill passed the House of Representatives, but was not considered in the Senate. ###
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced his support for the 2015 Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) bill. Larsen said he intends to vote for the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015 because of the critical role trade plays in creating jobs and growing the economy in the Second Congressional District and Washington state. “Over the last several months, people across Northwest Washington have shared their perspectives with me about why I should or should not support TPA. I have met with stakeholders across the spectrum on this issue, from labor and environmental groups to local businesses and foreign leaders. And I have carefully tracked the bill as it has moved through the legislative process. “TPA is a cornerstone of the President’s trade agenda. It is the vehicle for Congress to set standards and goals for new trade agreements the President is seeking to finalize. I believe presidents should have the authority to negotiate trade agreements based on Congressional direction. The specifics of that direction are important, and they are laid out in the 2015 TPA bill. “I have decided to support the 2015 TPA bill because trade matters for the Second Congressional District and for Washington state. "Trade matters for manufacturers of all sizes in the Second Congressional District. Opening up new markets for our businesses to sell their goods and services is a key way to help them grow their operations and create jobs here at home. We have manufacturers of all sizes in my district that trade with other countries, supporting more than 68,320 jobs. That is a sizeable piece of our economy that we simply cannot ignore. Trade matters for these factories and workers. “Trade matters for a variety of industries in Washington state, from agriculture to electronics to tourism. In Washington state, about 40 percent of all jobs are tied to trade in some way, and the pay for these jobs is nearly 20 percent higher than the average annual wage. Our state exported more than $90 billion in goods and services in 2014, making us the largest exporting state per capita in the country. “I agree with a comment Secretary John Kerry made during his recent visit to the Boeing factory in Renton. He said our state is a trade leader because we discovered a long time ago that it is in our best interest to do business with the world. Helping our state’s businesses sell their products in new markets worldwide means more growth, jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. Trade matters for a healthy economy in Washington state. “I also believe that the 2015 TPA bill addresses the major concerns I have heard from people in Northwest Washington and is far stronger than the last comparable bill in 2002. Three main concerns I have heard are protecting our workers and the environment, transparency, and the fact that Congress cannot amend trade agreements when they come up for a vote. “In terms of protections for workers and the environment, I strongly believe any trade agreements the U.S. makes with other countries must uphold these core values. The 2015 TPA bill puts these values front and center in the administration’s trade negotiations by requiring trading partners to put in place and enforce labor and environmental standards. If our partners do not live up to their end of the deal, they will be sanctioned. The 2002 TPA law did not include any of these teeth. “People must be able to understand what is in a trade deal to trust that negotiators are making decisions in favor of our workers, our environment and our economy. That is why I am pleased the 2015 TPA bill takes several steps to give the public more access to information about trade agreements. One measure would create a position in the administration dedicated solely to improving public access to trade agreement information. The 2002 TPA bill included no such transparency requirements. “Finally, some have expressed frustration that the 2015 TPA bill does not create a mechanism for Congress to amend trade agreements when they come to the floor for a vote. I think there are other mechanisms in the 2015 TPA bill that give Congress necessary oversight to hold the administration accountable. TPA contains an off-switch. If Congress is not satisfied the administration is upholding our core values to protect workers and the environment, then Members can vote to make an agreement ineligible for TPA. “Trade matters for jobs and a healthy economy in our state. Trade agreements should open up new markets for our businesses to sell their goods overseas so they can grow and create jobs here at home. Trade agreements also should level the playing field for our workers while upholding labor and environmental protections we have worked so hard in this country to achieve. The 2015 TPA bill moves us forward on both of these goals,” Larsen said. The 2015 TPA bill has support from newspaper editorial boards in the Pacific Northwest: In a recent editorial, the Everett Herald calls for the President to have the authority to negotiate trade deals: “But President Obama's fast-track authority should be approved so that he and his trade representatives, working within Congress' stated limits, can make a deal that promotes the state's and nation's economy and protects our interests." An editorial from the Tacoma News Tribune notes that trade is critical to Washington state’s economy: “If you live in Washington, your community depends on international trade. … As the fight over proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership heats up in Congress, Washington’s congressional representatives should make sure they stand with the real economic interests of their constituents. That translates into support for fast-track negotiating authority for President Obama, without which he can’t finalize this potentially rich trade deal with 11 other Pacific Rim nations.” Washington state and the U.S. have a lot to gain from leading on international trade, according to the Seattle Times: “Two out of five Washington workers have a job related to international trade. As more countries enter the global marketplace, Washington has much to gain — or lose — if the United States doesn’t maintain a strong position in trade. That’s just one of many reasons why Congress should grant President Obama “fast-track” authority to negotiate trade agreements known as trade-promotion authority.” The Senate passed the TPA bill on May 22, with support from Washington state’s senators. The House is expected to take up the bill in early June. ###
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, introduced a bill to help small businesses in Washington state and across the country export their products overseas. The bipartisan State Trade and Export Promotion Utilization Program for American Small Businesses Act of 2015 would reauthorize funding for the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program that helps small businesses overcome hurdles to exporting. “When we help our small businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. The STEP program does just that. Take for example Warm Industrial Nonwovens in Lynnwood, Wash., which manufactures textiles. STEP grants have enabled this local manufacturer to attend international trade shows and get its products in front of major aerospace manufacturers,” Congressman Larsen said. “STEP grants have helped hundreds of small businesses like Warm Industrial to generate millions of dollars in sales. I am pleased to work with Congressman Reichert on this bipartisan bill to help Northwest businesses grow and create jobs.” “As our small businesses are looking to export their goods and services to other countries for the first time, we should ensure that they have the tools they need to expand their reach. With 96% of consumers living outside of our borders, this is where the opportunity lies for them to grow their business and hire more people here at home. I look forward to continued work with my colleague from Washington in support of America’s small businesses,” Congressman Reichert said. The STEP program was created by Congress in 2010 as a three-year pilot program. In Washington state, over 480 businesses have used STEP funding to boost their exports. According to the Washington State Department of Commerce, this has resulted in an increase of more than $161 million in export sales and supported more than 2,200 jobs. Algona-based Cimtech, Inc. and Lynnwood-based Warm Industrial Nonwovens both used STEP grants to make contracts abroad. ###
05.21.2015	Local Universities and National Organizations Support Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Students with private education loans would be protected from “auto-defaults” when a loan cosigner, often a parent or grandparent, dies or files for bankruptcy if Congress passes a bill introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. In a report last year, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau identified significant issues facing private student loan borrowers. As of 2011, about 90 percent of private student loans had cosigners. Many loan contracts have clauses that allow the loan to be accelerated into default upon death or bankruptcy of a cosigner, often a parent or grandparent, even when students are making loan payments on time. Larsen’s bill, the Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights Act of 2015, is designed to protect grieving students and students facing family hardship from automatically defaulting on their private student loans and to get better access to information about cosigner release requirements. The bill also prohibits lenders from reporting an auto-default as a result of cosigner death or bankruptcy to credit reporting companies and stops these companies from including this information on their reports. “Circumstances out of students’ control should not throw their financial and educational futures into question. When students lose a loved one, the last thing they should have to worry about is defaulting on loans that they are paying on time. That is why I introduced a bill to make sure private lenders treat student borrowers fairly, and to protect students from marred credit records that could haunt them for years by no fault of their own. “Today’s students are juggling a lot of demands, from rising tuition costs to a highly competitive job market. My bill makes sure that unfair and harmful ‘auto-defaults’ are not on this list,” Larsen said. Local universities are getting behind the bill, including Western Washington University, the University of Washington, and Washington State University. Steve Swan, Vice President for University Relations and Community Development at Western Washington University said, “Western greatly appreciates Congressman Larsen’s ongoing efforts to protect students through the Bereaved Borrower’s Bill of Rights. This bill is about respect and decency in protecting students who are dependent on private loans and protects them when they are caught in a life-altering experience they have no control over. The unexpected loss of a family member who in most cases is a cosigner should not keep students from achieving their dreams and aspirations through a higher education experience. The threat of having their private loans reported as in default in bereavement or family crisis is irresponsible and wrong.” Kay Lewis, Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment, Executive Director of Financial Aid and Scholarships at the University of Washington said, "The Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights protects students with private loans when their cosigner dies or files for bankruptcy. Cosigners are usually close family members and students should not have their loans reported as in default during a time of family crisis or bereavement. I support this bill as a way to add reasonableness, transparency and most importantly, kindness to private student loan repayment. The Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights follows the old adage that it is important not to kick someone when they are down.” Brian Dixon, Assistant Vice President for the Office of Student Financial Services at Washington State University said, "The Bereaved Borrowers Bill of Rights address a critical gap in student borrower protection. It is unfortunate when students have a cosigner pass away. Oftentimes this is their primary financial supporter for funding their educational pursuits. WSU appreciates the leadership of Congressmen Larsen. This bill significantly reduces financial barriers to complete educational creditentials for students in this unfortunate situation and who lack the means for immediate repayment of their private loans." National organizations also have endorsed the bill as an important fix to a problem facing private student loan borrowers. The American Association of Community Colleges and the American Council on Education both support the bill. In a letter of support, ACE President Molly Corbett Broad said, “This legislation would meaningfully address problems the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has identified with how lenders treat co-signers of private education loans. By providing transparency to the release process and giving borrowers real options in the event of a death, the Bereaved Borrowers' Bill of Rights Act of 2015 will help borrowers understand and meet their obligations while ensuring that they are not unduly harmed by circumstances beyond their control.” A factsheet about the bill is available here. Bill text is available here. Larsen first introduced the Act during the 113th Congress. ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to keep funds flowing to states for job-creating transportation projects, while calling on Congress to take up a long-term surface transportation bill that would invest in repairs and upgrades to roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a two-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund, which is set to expire on May 31. The fund is the primary source of federal investments in roads, bridges, highways and transit systems. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, called for this patch to be the last one as he announced his support along with other House Democrats for the GROW AMERICA Act, a six-year, $478 billion surface transportation bill backed by the administration. “We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. The two-month patch the House passed today is little league. Our country has the biggest economy in the world, but you would not know it looking at our aging transportation system. “Construction workers are ready to start making improvements to State Route 20 in Anacortes and to I-5 bridges in Everett. But these projects and others across Washington state and the country face continued delays and uncertainty because of Congress’ inability to pass a long-term surface transportation bill. “The GROW AMERICA bill is not a perfect plan, but it is a plan and a place to start. And we need to start somewhere, because we have had yet to see a plan coming out of Congress. Congress must use this bill to get serious about investing in the top job-creating industry in our country. For our economy to succeed, businesses need to be able to trust in reliable access to markets for more than a few months at a time, and citizens need long-term assurance of their safety during daily travel,” Larsen said. The GROW AMERICA Act provides a total of $478 billion over six years, a 45 percent increase for highways, bridges, public transportation, highway safety, and rail programs. A summary of the bill is available here. The two-month Highway Trust Fund patch, H.R. 2353, authorizes the fund through July 31, 2015. The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
05.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, marked the 50th anniversary of the Head Start program today by learning about local Head Start successes from across the Pacific Northwest. He also called for continued funding of education opportunities for the youngest students. “We need to be giving our students every opportunity to succeed. A strong start from the beginning with programs like Head Start is one of the best ways we can help students of all backgrounds become effective, lifelong learners. “Today I talked with Head Start leaders from the Pacific Northwest to hear about a few of the program’s many successes. In Skagit County, Head Start will be holding an event next month to recognize their graduates over the years. Three Head Start graduates who are now students at Western Washington University are serving as interns for the Washington state Head Start association. And I heard from a parent who shared how Head Start has helped her children and illustrated the importance of getting parents involved in their children’s education. “I appreciated hearing about the positive effects Head Start is having in our communities. I strongly support Head Start and other early education opportunities that help our youngest students get ready for kindergarten and lifelong learning,” Larsen said. As part of his asks for the FY2016 budget, Larsen requested full funding for the Head Start program. During 2014, Head Start served more than 1,300 children in Island, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish and Whatcom counties. Since Head Start’s inception, the program has served more than 30 million children and their families in urban and rural areas all over the country. Head Start, along with Washington state’s Early Childhood Education and Assistance Program, promotes school readiness of young children from low-income families through partnerships in their local community. In addition, Head Start programs provide children and their families with health, nutrition, social, and other services vital to early childhood development. Head Start services are responsive to each child and family's ethnic, cultural and linguistic heritage. Larsen’s event comes as a part of House Democrats’ “Building on Our Legacy, Embracing the Future” initiative, which highlights some of the major legislative achievements of 1965 and the ongoing fight to protect them. Fifty years after the enactment of groundbreaking legislation on these priorities, House Democrats continue to stand for guaranteeing voting rights for all Americans, making college and early childhood education more affordable, defending Medicare and Medicaid, and protecting the environment. ###
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today continued his efforts to ensure servicemembers transitioning out of the military have access to jobs and the health care they need. Larsen successfully advocated for these provisions in the annual defense policy bill, the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1735), which Larsen voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed. “When our service women and men leave the military, we should be doing everything we can to ease their way into civilian life,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “That is why I pushed to open more doors for our veterans to find jobs, a longtime priority of mine, and to make sure they can keep receiving the medications they need.” One of Larsen’s provisions would create a credential process to translate six military specialties, such as police and security roles, into civilian jobs. “Our women and men in uniform gain specialized skills during their service. Our communities and our economy can and should benefit from their professional experience, which is why I pushed to make a clearer pathway for our servicemembers to succeed in the civilian job market,” Larsen said. Another provision Larsen supported comes in response to concerns he heard from veterans at recent town hall meetings. These veterans had trouble maintaining their prescription medications when they transitioned out of the military because the Department of Defense and the VA have different policies for the medications they cover. The disruption to medications is particularly problematic for veterans suffering from psychological conditions, sleep disorders, and those who are managing chronic pain. The bill fixes this issue by requiring DoD and the VA to work together on joint coverage policies for prescription medications. “Of the dozens of things servicemembers have on their minds when they leave the military, keeping their prescription medications should not be one of them. The DoD and the VA should be working together to make a simple change with big implications for our veterans’ health,” Larsen said. After hearing from constituents, Larsen also pushed to help Afghan citizens who work with the U.S. military to get visas more easily. “Afghan citizens who help our troops often face threats on their lives and those of their families. Their service is critical to helping our women and men on missions in Afghanistan. If they want to immigrate to the United States, we should honor their sacrifices by helping them come here,” Larsen said. Larsen disagreed with some of the funding decisions in the policy bill and called on his colleagues to end the spending caps in place for both defense and non-defense spending. “I disagree with Republicans’ decision to evade budgetary caps by adding $38 billion in regular defense spending to the war funding account, which is exempt from sequester caps. We should address the harmful effects of sequester across all of our national priorities, rather than using tricks to protect just one part of the budget. “The budgeting gimmick in this bill does not override the important advances we are making for our service women and men, as well as our national security. I will continue working with my colleagues on upcoming spending bills to make sure we fund our country’s priorities – from national defense to infrastructure to education – responsibly,” Larsen said. ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Conditions at immigration detention centers would improve if Congress passes a bill introduced today with support from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Accountability in Immigration Detention Act of 2015 would create stronger, enforceable federal oversight and standards for immigration detention centers, promote alternatives to detention, and end the requirement that 34,000 detention beds be constantly maintained. “In this country made up of immigrants, we must do better in our treatment of those who come here seeking asylum, fleeing persecution, or looking for opportunities like jobs and a good education. We should have in place better protections for immigrants who are detained, such as access to adequate medical care and food. This bill helps make sure detention centers are accountable for treating immigrants fairly and humanely,” Larsen said. The Act covers all immigration detention facilities that are run by or contracted under U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement and U.S. Customs and Border Protection. It includes the following provisions: Requires a transparent and inclusive process to develop new rules, involving stakeholders from all levels of government, nonprofits, and other expert groups. Creates more protections for detained immigrants, such as access to legal resources, limited solitary confinement, rights to recreation, and better medical care. Enhances enforcement to hold centers accountable for meeting new standards under the Act. A section-by-section analysis of the bill is available here. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the bill, introduced by Rep. Adam Smith, WA-09. Larsen cosponsored a similar bill during the last Congress. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to end the government’s bulk collection of phone record data. The bipartisan USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048) also puts in place new processes by which the government must get approval to obtain phone records on a case-by-case basis from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). Larsen has been a vocal advocate of reforming the government’s surveillance programs following revelations about the National Security Agency’s (NSA) bulk data collection. Last Congress, Larsen introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act, which aimed to increase transparency by allowing technology companies to disclose the volume and type of information they were ordered to turn over to the government. A version of this proposal is included in the USA Freedom Act. “The NSA’s dragnet data collection is unacceptable. It is past time for Congress to introduce some sunlight into government surveillance and reform the NSA’s invasive collection of information about the American people. The USA Freedom Act moves our country in the right direction toward respecting the public’s right to privacy and protecting national security. “The bill puts a stop to indiscriminate bulk collection of information about Americans. And it demands much more transparency about the government’s surveillance activities, in part by allowing tech companies to disclose orders from the government to hand over phone data. The American public deserves to know what data the government collects. “As with most compromises, this bill is not perfect. I would like to see the Senate improve the bill in a couple of ways: by strengthening the privacy advocate position created on the FISC, and by clarifying NSA’s procedures for destroying information it collects that is not related to terrorism investigations. “NSA’s abuse of power must be checked. The reforms in the USA Freedom Act are not the end of the conversation, but they make progress toward protecting Americans’ civil liberties and ensuring national security,” Larsen said. Sections of the Patriot Act under which the government conducts surveillance are set to expire on June 1. The USA Freedom Act addresses these provisions. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON—Veterans in Northwest Washington and across the country would be able to more easily get to the health care they need if Congress passes a bill that Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Mac Thornberry, TX-13, introduced today. The Rural Veterans Travel Enhancement Act of 2015 (H.R. 2291) would permanently reauthorize the Veterans Transportation Service program and provide mileage reimbursement for combat veterans traveling to receive counseling and care from Veterans Centers. “Access to health care does not just mean having enough doctors. It means making sure veterans can get to appointments with their doctors. My bill will help break down travel barriers so veterans do not have to wonder how they will get to their next health care appointment,” said Larsen, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “We have a responsibility to the men and women who sacrificed so much for our nation with their selfless service,” said Thornberry, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “We will never know the full extent of their sacrifice, but we would not know freedom without it. That is why programs and legislation like this are so important in our work to better serve them.” Local groups are supporting the bill, including Snohomish Volunteers of America, Community Action of Skagit County, and the Snohomish County Veterans Homeless Committee. “The Veterans Transportation Service program ensures veterans in Snohomish County can get to and from the VA, removing the stress of figuring out how they’ll make it to their appointments. We thank Congressman Larsen for his continued work to create more opportunity for veterans,” said members of the Snohomish County Veterans Homeless Committee. The Veterans Transportation Service program provides funding to local Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities to hire transportation coordinators and purchase vehicles that VA-trained staff can use to connect more veterans to the care they need. Between October 2014 and March 2015, the VA Puget Sound Health Care System provided nearly 200 trips for veterans to VA facilities. These trips sometimes transported multiple veterans to VA appointments. The cost-effective program helps save money on ambulance costs and mileage reimbursements. The Rural Veterans Travel Enhancement Act will: Permanently reauthorize the Veterans Transportation Service program; Provide mileage reimbursement for combat veterans traveling to receive counseling and care from Veterans Centers like those in Everett and Bellingham in Northwest Washington; and Reauthorize a grant program to provide transportation options to highly rural veterans seeking medical care. A companion bill in the Senate was introduced by Sens. Jon Tester (MT) and Patty Murray (WA). Larsen is a staunch advocate for ensuring veterans can access the resources and services they need to succeed in civilian life. He held a series of roundtables with veterans in the Second Congressional District last fall to hear from them about concerns and ideas for improved services. This feedback continues to inform Larsen’s work in Congress on behalf of veterans. Larsen’s office is available to assist veterans who need help accessing resources. Call his Everett office at (425) 252-3188. ###
05.12.2015	Students across Northwest Washington benefit from STEM education WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his commitment to increasing access to STEM education by calling for a hearing on his Youth Access to American Jobs Act of 2015. Larsen introduced the bill to help students succeed in manufacturing jobs, an important sector for the economy in Northwest Washington. Larsen also announced his support for two other bills designed to improve STEM education. Larsen urged swift action on the Youth Access to American Jobs Act of 2015 in a letter to House Education and Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline. The bill facilitates partnerships between schools and apprenticeship programs to make sure students are gaining skills directly related to manufacturing workforce needs in their area. The bill received endorsement from the Washington Association for Career and Technical Education. “We need to be providing our students with every opportunity to learn the skills they need to succeed in a globally competitive workforce. Pairing schools with apprenticeships builds a clear, affordable bridge between students and good-paying manufacturing jobs. That is why I am encouraging my colleagues on the Education and Workforce Committee to act swiftly on my bill,” Larsen said. Larsen also announced his support for two other bills that improve access to STEM education. The Stepping up to STEM Education Act seeks to engage all students, particularly minority students, with STEM through public-private partnerships and networks that expand access to STEM engagement (introduced by Rep. Mike Honda, CA-17). The STEM Opportunities Act of 2015 aims to improve data collection, analysis, and best practices to increase opportunities for women and minorities in STEM-related fields. (introduced by Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson, TX-30). “Students across Northwest Washington are benefitting from STEM education. At Burlington-Edison High School, I recently met with students who successfully built a robot that can move and stack items. Middle school students in Arlington shared with me what they are learning about aerodynamics and population growth estimations. And I have heard from high school students from South Whidbey Island who recently competed regionally and internationally on a project involving submarines. “Innovations and skills like these will help students succeed in the workforce and keep our region’s economy competitive and strong. I will continue to push for expanded access to STEM opportunities for students in the Pacific Northwest and across the country,” Larsen said. ###
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement about the derailment today in North Dakota of a train carrying crude oil. “Another crude oil train derailment, another call for better safety. I do not need another reminder that we must act to improve safety, but we got one this morning with the derailment in North Dakota. “We have new rules about crude oil trains as of Friday, but that does not mean our work is done. We have to get these rules implemented quickly and completely, while also looking at other actions. “Local officials have told me we need to focus on safer at-grade crossings. This is where rail incidents are mostly likely to occur and where rail lines have the highest impact on car traffic. I am working to bring more attention to this issue. I plan to introduce legislation to put more funding toward rail crossings, and get the Federal Railroad Administration more involved in planning and constructing crossings. “We also need to make sure first responders are well trained, community leaders know what is traveling through their communities on railways, and tracks are inspected on a regular basis,” Larsen said. Larsen will speak on a panel this evening in Anacortes, Wash., about his efforts to improve the safety of communities near rail lines carrying crude oil. ###
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced a new initiative to research expanded uses of small unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial purposes. The FAA will partner with three companies to look at the safety of extended UAS operations beyond the line of sight of the operator. The initiative builds on the FAA’s draft small UAS rules released earlier this year, which require UAS to fly where operators can see them. “Safety is, and must be, the FAA’s number-one priority. I know it is mine, as the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. I also know the UAS industry has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs, including in my district in Washington state, an epicenter of aviation R&D. “FAA’s partnership with industry experts should help us understand more about how UAS technology might work outside of an operator’s sightline. I am pleased FAA is continuing to look at new opportunities like this one. “Over the past year, FAA has made progress addressing the integration of UAS technology into the national airspace, and this is another significant step forward. One of my priorities in the upcoming FAA reauthorization bill is to ensure that Congress continues to support FAA’s efforts to safely integrate UAS while helping our country keep its place as the global leader in aviation and aerospace technology,” Larsen said. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will hold a series of events with local businesses and organizations that export to countries worldwide during his time in Northwest Washington over the next week. Larsen also is hosting the administrator for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to highlight the agency’s relationships with local businesses and the importance of trade for related industries such as fishing. Larsen will tour local manufacturers and will hold roundtables about exporting and trade around Northwest Washington. He will hear about the opportunities and challenges these organizations face when exporting, as well as the effects trade has on the Washington state economy. “My top priority is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. When we help our businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. That is why I am focused on meeting with local businesses who are exporting their products all over the world to learn more about their opportunities and growth, as well as their challenges. I want to continue to understand Washington state’s trade relationships with countries around the world,” Larsen said. Many of the local businesses Larsen will meet with export to countries that are a part of Trans-Pacific Partnership negotiations. Full details of Larsen’s schedule will follow with separate press advisories. Highlights of events include: Monday, May 4: A discussion in Bellingham with raspberry growers to talk about the effects of trade on their industry. Tuesday, May 5: Export events with NOAA Administrator Kathryn Sullivan Discussion about innovation, research and exports at Kongsberg Underwater Technology, Inc., in Lynnwood, which manufactures autonomous underwater vehicles. Event will finish with a tour of the Kongsberg facilities. Roundtable in Seattle with members of the fishing industry to discuss exports. Wednesday, May 6: A discussion with potato growers in Skagit County to talk about the effects of trade on their industry. Thursday, May 7: Tour and discussion with WaterTectonics in Everett, which designs and manufactures water treatment solutions for use in a variety of sectors. Tour and discussion with Vista Clara in Mukilteo, which manufactures equipment that does imaging in water, rock and soil formations. Friday, May 8: Tour and discussion with Art of Appreciation in Arlington, a gift basket producer that employs 30 people and exports to Canada. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for releasing final safety rules today about crude oil trains, and stressed there is more work to do to make sure communities are as safe as possible. “I have been pushing the administration for the last 18 months to put out strong rules governing the safe transport of crude oil by rail. Today is an important milestone to hold shippers and railroads accountable and ensure the highest level of safety for our communities. “I will be looking closely at the rules in the coming days to make sure they adequately address key safety issues, such as tank car design and train speed. Now the work begins to translate rules on paper into safety on the rails. “I know there is more work to do to make sure first responders are well trained, community leaders know what is traveling through their communities on railways, and tracks are inspected on a regular basis. I plan to introduce legislation to increase funding available for at-grade rail crossings, a step leaders in Northwest Washington have told me would help the safety of our communities,” Larsen said. Larsen recently took a position on the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee, which better positions him to make progress on rail safety for Northwest Washington. He has met with local, state and federal officials, industry experts, first responders and community members to hear their concerns and discuss solutions. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON—Students would have better access to a STEM education pathway into manufacturing jobs because of a bill introduced today by Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Jim McDermott, WA-07, and Paul Tonko, NY-20. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act of 2015 would create ten pilot pathways that engage students in STEM-related fields from their junior year in high school through community college and into an apprenticeship. The bill facilitates partnerships between schools and apprenticeship programs to make sure students are gaining skills directly related to workforce needs in their area. “America needs to be telling its young people we will invest in them. This bill does just that building a clear bridge between high school students and good paying jobs. Connecting today’s students with tomorrow’s skills is a critical investment in a strong economic foundation,” Congressman Larsen said. “A fundamental element of any economic recovery involves education. Good paying jobs increasingly require some aspect of STEM education – both in new, emerging industries, as well as those in existing industries as they evolve. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act would help create a clearer path from the classroom to the workplace for today’s youth,” said Congressman McDermott. “Each year that we neglect to make direct and creative investment in education and emerging careers is a year that puts us further behind in the global race on innovation and the nation’s growing need for STEM-educated professionals. This legislation will build a stronger foundation for a robust American manufacturing sector and a stronger economy for decades to come. I thank Representatives Larsen and McDermott for their leadership on this issue, and ask my colleagues to join us in helping students acquire the skills required today for job opportunities tomorrow,” Congressman Tonko said. The Act has support from Washington state Career and Technical Education (CTE) experts. “Helping students gain STEM-related skills to succeed in manufacturing jobs is essential for our education system and our economy,” said Tim Knue, executive director of the Washington Association for Career and Technical Education. “We strongly support this bill because it links students with training tailored to meet the workforce needs in their area, from aerospace to medical device manufacturing. Students should have access to high quality Career and Technical Education opportunities to help them meet their career goals, and we hope Congress will pass this bill to make more of those opportunities available.” The national Association for Career and Technical Education thanked the Representatives for their leadership on CTE issues. “Congressmen Larsen, McDermott and Tonko have demonstrated exemplary leadership on Capitol Hill on behalf of CTE students and educators nationwide. We applaud their dedication to exploring opportunities to increase access to secondary and postsecondary CTE programs, which will help ensure that every student gains the education and skills today for the careers of tomorrow,” said LeAnn Wilson, Executive Director of the Association for Career and Technical Education. The Youth Access to American Jobs Act of 2015: Directs the Secretary of Education to award grants to ten partnerships among local educational agencies, community colleges, and state apprenticeship or labor-management training program. Creates a pilot program with a 2-2-2 pathway for students starting their junior year of high school, taking them through community college and into an apprenticeship. Emphasizes STEM and STEM-focused Career and Technical Education, programs that keep students engaged throughout their learning process, as well as giving them the scientific and practical skills they need. Enables local education and apprenticeship systems to work together to prepare graduates for success in manufacturing careers with STEM skills. A full summary of the bill can be found here. Full text of the bill is available here. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON—The Navy is upholding its commitment to Naval Station Everett as it announces the three destroyers that will be homeported there, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Senator Patty Murray said today. The Navy announced it will base the USS Kidd, USS Gridley and USS Sampson in Everett. The destroyers will replace frigates that were recently decommissioned, and they are all scheduled to arrive throughout 2016. “The Navy’s announcement today is great news for the Everett community and for Northwest Washington. Naval Station Everett plays a crucial role in keeping our country safe and protecting our interests worldwide. Homeporting these three destroyers in Everett shows the Navy’s ongoing commitment to the base as a critical component of our country’s Asia-Pacific security strategy,” Rep. Larsen said. “Not only is the base in a strategically important location, but its facilities are among the best the Navy has to offer. Naval Station Everett is aptly nicknamed ‘The Sailor’s Choice,’ as local officials and leaders in the community have worked together to support sailors and their families stationed in Everett. I look forward to welcoming the destroyers to our community and letting its sailors and families know they are welcome and supported here in Everett.” “I’m thrilled to see the U.S. Navy take such a concrete step toward bolstering its defense strategy while solidifying its commitment to Everett and the surrounding communities. Naval Station Everett is the backbone of the local economy, and over the past several years, my office has been in close contact with the Navy specifically to ensure its continued investment in this community,” Sen. Murray said. “This is another good example of why I am proud to have broken through the gridlock and dysfunction to reach a bipartisan budget deal that restored investments in defense priorities and gave the Navy the flexibility to make decisions like this that benefit Naval Station Everett and Washington state communities.” Larsen has long pushed to ensure the Navy maintains a strong presence in Everett, and he worked to bring the three destroyers to the base. He also pushed the Navy to avoid a gap between retiring the frigates and bringing in the destroyers. The destroyers are versatile ships with technology that enables them to carry out missions in a variety of domains, including surface, underwater, air, space, and cyber. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON—Millions of workers in low-wage jobs would get a raise if Congress passes a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, helped introduce today. The Raise the Wage Act would raise the federal minimum wage to $12 an hour by 2020 and tie future increases to the median wage. The Act also would gradually eliminate the minimum wage for tipped workers, currently frozen at $2.13 per hour. “It is time to give millions of our workers a raise so they can more easily put food on their families’ tables and roofs over their heads,” Larsen said. “It is unacceptable that millions of people are working full-time at the minimum wage but still fall under the poverty line. “Even as our economy is growing and creating jobs, not everyone is sharing in the benefits. The vast majority of income increases in the last few years have gone to top earners, while low- and middle-class workers’ wages have stagnated. Raising the minimum wage and making sure it keeps pace with economic growth are important steps to ensuring our economy works for everyone, not just the wealthiest few,” Larsen said. One recent study estimates that raising the minimum wage from the current level of $7.25 to $12 would help nearly 38 million workers nationwide, including 642,000 in Washington state. Raising the minimum wage would disproportionately benefit women, who make up about two-thirds of low-wage workers. And nearly 90 percent of those who would benefit from a higher minimum wage are older than 20. The Raise the Wage Act was introduced in both the House and the Senate. ###
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today pressed leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives to allow a vote on a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. The Bank is set to expire on June 30. Larsen helped introduce a bill to reauthorize the Bank earlier this year, and today he signed a petition with other House members to force a vote on the bill. “Helping our businesses sell their products overseas creates jobs here at home. In my district, the Export-Import Bank supports thousands of jobs at companies of all sizes by helping these businesses get their goods into the hands of consumers worldwide,” Larsen said. “Letting the bank expire would cut off our manufacturers from a critical tool they use to expand their sales to customers around the world so they can grow and create jobs in our communities. We should be doing everything we can to support jobs and a healthy economy to create more opportunity, which is why I am calling for a vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. A vote for the Export-Import Bank is a vote for jobs.” In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $70 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 17 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. The Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act of 2015, H.R. 1031, reauthorizes the bank for 7 years and raises its lending cap by $5 billion every 2 years, to a total of $160 billion. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today helped introduce a resolution regarding the earthquake in Nepal, expressing members’ condolences and solidarity with the Nepalese people. The resolution also encourages continued U.S. assistance. During the weekend, a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck Nepal killing thousands of people with many more missing. The State Department has provided $10 million in initial disaster assistance. “The massive loss of life in Nepal is tragic for the country and for many communities all around the world. My thoughts are with all of those affected by the devastating earthquake, including families and communities in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “I urge my colleagues to join me in continuing to support recovery efforts in the weeks and months to come.” “I will continue to pray for the people of Nepal, and those affected in the region or here at home during this tragic time,” DelBene said. “Three of those still missing are constituents of Washington’s First District. These people were pillars of our community – a retired special education teacher, a retired firefighter and a former small business owner. I want to do everything I can to assist and support their families during this difficult time and hope for their safe return." Larsen and DelBene both serve on the Congressional Nepal Caucus. The bipartisan resolution was introduced Wednesday by Congressman Matt Salmon (AZ-05). Text of the resolution follows: Expressing deepest condolences to and solidarity with the people of Nepal following the devastating earthquake on April 25, 2015. Whereas on April 25, 2015, a magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck the country of Nepal; Whereas according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the earthquake epicenter was located approximately 48 miles northwest from the capital, Kathmandu; Whereas the USGS already has registered over 50 aftershocks between magnitudes 4.0 and 6.7 and reports that additional aftershocks over magnitude 5.0 or greater may be expected; Whereas the reported death toll has reached over 4,000, thousands more people have been reported injured, and critical infrastructure, including roads, hospitals, and homes, has been damaged or destroyed; Whereas the United Nations estimates that up to 8,000,000 people have been affected by the earthquake, including an estimated 1,400,000 people in need of immediate food assistance; Whereas the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) estimates that nearly one million children will require urgent humanitarian assistance; Whereas the United States responded immediately to the disaster and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has deployed a 128-person Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) to Nepal, including search and rescue efforts, emergency shelter, and water, sanitation and health; Whereas the United States has committed $10,000,000 to date for earthquake response and recovery efforts in Nepal, including search and rescue efforts, emergency shelter, and water, sanitation and health; Whereas individuals, businesses, and philanthropic organizations across the United States and throughout the international community have responded in support of Nepal; and Whereas humanitarian access has been severely constrained by the magnitude of destruction, the region’s mountainous terrain, and the remoteness of impacted areas: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) expresses its deepest condolences to and solidarity with the people of Nepal following the devastating earthquake on April 25, 2015; (2) supports the efforts of the Administration to coordinate an immediate, effective United States (3) Government humanitarian response and to provide relief to affected communities; (4) commends the efforts and honors the sacrifice of the men and women engaged in the response, including the citizens and Government of Nepal, the United States, and international humanitarian and nongovernmental organizations; and (5) urges the Administration, in coordination with the Nepalese Government and other donors, to continue to provide emergency relief and reconstruction efforts in Nepal. # # #
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement about the tragic earthquake in Nepal. "My thoughts and prayers are with all of those affected by the devastating earthquake in Nepal, including the families and communities who have been torn apart. "As rescue efforts continue, the U.S. is working with the international community to provide humanitarian relief, as well as sending disaster response teams to help," Larsen said. ###
04.24.2015	WASHINGTON—As the U.S. takes over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council today, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement reiterating the importance of the U.S. upholding its commitments as an Arctic nation. “Our country faces a steep opportunity curve when it comes to the Arctic as we take over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council. We have a lot of work ahead of us, from protecting the unique Arctic environment and the people and animals who live there, to improving our emergency response ability when ships get into trouble. “The U.S. needs to suit up to play the long game in the Arctic to protect our environmental, economic and strategic interests. I am hopeful that during the U.S. chairmanship of the Council, we will make progress on the strong priorities the State Department has defined, and that we will move the Arctic up our national priority list. “I am working on several initiatives to bring more attention to a part of the world that might be out of sight, out of mind for many, but is part of the everyday economy in the Pacific Northwest. Our ports are often the winter home for maintenance and repair on fishing boats and other vessels that operate in the Alaskan Arctic during the warmer months. “Even as the Administration has taken actions to better streamline and coordinate our country’s Arctic efforts, I support an ambassador-level position to better manage our many interests in the Arctic and to signal our country’s commitment to international cooperation on Arctic policy. “Our country does not have the icebreaking capability it needs to meet our Arctic responsibilities. As the Arctic increasingly opens up to more shipping traffic, our icebreaker fleet will become even more important to protect American commerce and our national security. I will continue to push for needed investments in our icebreaker fleet. “I also started the Congressional Arctic Working Group with Mr. Young from Alaska to help raise awareness about the importance of the Arctic. I appreciate this partnership and hope the Working Group will be a resource for my colleagues during our country’s time leading the Arctic Council,” Larsen said. ###
04.20.2015	WASHINGTON—About 35 veterans experiencing homelessness in Snohomish, Skagit and Island counties will receive permanent housing through a grant program that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has long supported. The housing vouchers, including 12 for Snohomish County, 7 for Skagit County, and 14 for Island County, are awarded through the Department of Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH). These vouchers come on top of 187 already in place in Snohomish County, and 25 in place in Skagit County. These will be the first HUD-VASH vouchers in Island County. “Unfortunately many veterans struggle with homelessness, which is why I am a strong supporter of the HUD-VASH program. Along with addressing housing, the program also matches veterans with other support and services they may need. These grants will help more of our local veterans get permanent housing and on the path to independence,” Larsen said. The Housing Authority of Snohomish County will receive $92,910; the Housing Authority of Skagit County will receive $41,236; and the Housing Authority of Island County will receive $98,216. Eligible veterans are identified through Veterans Affairs Medical Centers (VAMC) based on the duration of homelessness and their need for longer term intensive support. The HUD-VASH program includes rental assistance and comprehensive case management through the VAMC. Veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH program rent privately owned housing and contribute no more than 30 percent of their own income toward rent. Earlier this year Larsen signed a letter of support for full funding of the HUD-VASH program in 2016. More information about the grant awards is available here. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON—Today, members of the Washington state congressional delegation invited Chinese President Xi Jinping to include Washington state as part of his first official state visit to the United States later this year. In extending the invitation, the members emphasized the importance of the relationship between China and Washington state. “Your upcoming state visit to the United States is an important opportunity for our two governments to address the challenges we face and discuss issues where our interests are aligned. In this spirit, we invite you to visit ‘the Evergreen State’ to learn firsthand about the relationship between China and Washington state,” the members wrote. Full text of the letter follows. His Excellency Xi Jinping President of the People’s Republic of China c/o H.E. Cui Tiankai 3505 International Place NW Washington, DC 20008 Dear President Xi: As you prepare for your first official state visit to the United States, we would like to extend an invitation for you to visit Washington state. We represent Washington in the House and Senate, and know firsthand the importance of positive relations between our two countries to our state. Trade between China and Washington is important to both economies. In 2014, Washington imported $8.29 billion worth of goods from China. And China was Washington’s top international market, representing 22.9% of all of the state’s exports. This trade is not a recent development. Our economies have been tied together since the mid-1700s, when traders sold fur pelts from the Pacific Northwest for tea and spices in China. Your upcoming state visit to the United States is an important opportunity for our two governments to address the challenges we face and discuss issues where our interests are aligned. In this spirit, we invite you to visit “the Evergreen State” to learn firsthand about the relationship between China and Washington state. Sincerely, Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Senator Rick Larsen Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Dave Reichert Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Dan Newhouse Member of Congress ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded Senate passage of a bill that ensures seniors can continue seeing their doctors, provides funding for community health centers and extends health insurance for children. The House passed H.R. 2, the bipartisan Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, on March 26, and it now goes to President Obama for his signature. The bill permanently repeals the flawed Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR) that for years has caused uncertainty for seniors and their doctors. The bill also provides $7.2 billion in funding over two years for community health centers, and it extends through FY2017 the Children’s Health Insurance Program, which helps make sure low-income children have access to health coverage. “Seniors can rest assured that they will be able to continue to see their doctors now that Congress has passed a real solution to repeal the flawed Medicare payment formula. And the most vulnerable members of our communities will continue to have access to affordable health care because of critical funding for community health centers. “I am pleased that after years of so-called annual fixes, Congress has agreed on a permanent solution that provides certainty for seniors and their doctors. I am also pleased the bill recognizes that we need health care options that work for everyone. It supports community health centers that provide affordable, comprehensive care and are a critical part of our health care system. “Passing this bill moves our country in the direction we should be going with health care reimbursement – from volume to value,” Larsen said. Larsen voted in favor of H.R. 2. Many Washington state and national organizations support H.R. 2 and the positive direction it moves the country. ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON—A bill to provide continued funding to protect and restore estuaries that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, introduced passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today. Larsen introduced the bipartisan bill with Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, in February. H.R. 944 would reauthorize the National Estuary Program through 2020, funding local efforts to preserve sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. “I am working to protect Washington state’s environment, which is why I have long supported estuary restoration in the Pacific Northwest. A healthy estuary like the Puget Sound supports healthy fish, birds and other wildlife, as well as driving important economic activities like trade, fishing, tourism and outdoor recreation. Healthy estuaries also help capture carbon dioxide emissions out of the air, as a report last year about the Snohomish Estuary found. “I am pleased that the committee advanced this bill that will continue federal support for local efforts to keep these sensitive habitats vital today and for future generations,” Larsen said. In addition to leading efforts to fund the National Estuary Program, Larsen has a long record of support for restoring local estuaries, like the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project. This will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in Washington state when it is finished. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, supports the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. ###
04.03.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after becoming the newest member of the bipartisan Congressional Aluminum Caucus. The Caucus raises awareness of the U.S. aluminum industry and the metal’s production and use. “In Whatcom County, aluminum means jobs and economic opportunity. Intalco is directly responsible for 640 family wage jobs in Whatcom County. And the Aluminum Association estimates the industry brings another 1,783 supplier and induced jobs to the region including truck drivers, equipment manufacturers and engineers. It is crystal clear that Intalco is vital to the stability and health of our community. “I have been working to keep Intalco running for more than 13 years. Becoming the newest member of the Congressional Aluminum Caucus is one more way to show the importance of the aluminum industry to Whatcom County and Washington state. The Congressional Aluminum Caucus was formed in 2013 by Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-02) and three other Members. Larsen is the 31st Member to join the Caucus. ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about the announcement that the U.S. and other negotiating countries have agreed on a framework to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “I am encouraged by today’s announcement that negotiators have agreed on framework to stop Iran from building a nuclear weapon. I would like to see a diplomatic solution prevail, and the framework is a positive step in that direction. “While the framework is not perfect, it is clear the administration took a firm negotiating position. I am pleased the framework incorporates transparency and provides international inspectors with regular access to all of Iran’s nuclear facilities. “As negotiators move toward a final agreement, expected in June, I hope the administration will seek additional opportunities to protect U.S. security interests and remain strong in ensuring Iran cannot build a nuclear weapon,” Larsen said. ###
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON—Reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will work better for Pacific Northwest veterans as a result of efforts by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. Larsen successfully pressed the VA to improve access to care for veterans in Northwest Washington who face geographical barriers because of the region’s unique environment, including veterans living in South and Central Whidbey Island who must drive across Deception Pass to Mount Vernon or take a ferry to Seattle before they reach a VA doctor. Under the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014, which Congress passed last year, certain veterans can obtain health care with a non-VA practitioner, including veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility. This benefit also applies to veterans who must travel by ferry to reach VA care. Initially, the VA calculated distance from a VA facility by drawing a straight line on a map, regardless of driving distance. “Passing the VA reform bill last year was an important first step toward making sure veterans have access to timely health care. Now we have to make sure the law works. That is why I pressed the VA to improve access to care for veterans who face a long drive because of the unique Pacific Northwest geography. “I brought this challenge to the VA’s attention to help its leadership understand that reaching VA facilities is not a simple drive for many of my constituents, including those living in South and Central Whidbey Island. I am pleased the VA is now moving forward with a common-sense solution that will enable more veterans to get care with doctors who are more accessible to them,” Larsen said. The VA recently announced it would use a 40-mile driving distance rather than a straight-line distance to make this eligibility calculation. This announcement followed Larsen’s request to the Secretary in October to consider the unique geography of the Puget Sound region when determining what qualifies as a ‘geographic burden’ for travel to receive health care. “My office is available to help veterans who need assistance navigating these changes, and I will keep pushing to make sure reforms are making a positive difference for veterans in our communities,” Larsen said. Veterans who believe they are eligible for non-VA care should confirm by contacting the VA at 1‐866‐606‐8198. ###
03.31.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the Obama Administration’s action to move forward with a plan to cut U.S. greenhouse gas emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. President Obama first announced the plan in November with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Today, in advance of the United Nations climate change meetings in December, the administration formally submitted its blueprint to achieve these emissions reductions. “Our country must lead with action to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the harmful effects of climate change worldwide. With the plan President Obama submitted to the U.N. today, the U.S. is showing the world that we are committed to doing our part to reduce fossil fuel use. “The joint commitment last November by the U.S. and China, the world’s two largest economies, was a critical step forward for global efforts to curb the effects of climate change. I am hopeful that agreement, along with the administration’s actions today, will set a positive foundation for the United Nations climate change convention in December,” Larsen said. Larsen signed on to a letter to President Obama supporting his international climate efforts. ###
03.31.2015	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded the appointment of Jill McKinnie, the director of his Northwest Washington offices, as Snohomish County Ombudsman. Larsen commended McKinnie for her long record of public service. County Executive John Lovick selected McKinnie as one of two finalists for the ombudsman position, and the County Council voted on March 30 to appoint McKinnie. “Jill has served the people of Northwest Washington with the highest level of skill, integrity and commitment for the last 32 years, including 14 years leading my offices in Everett and Bellingham. She has rightly earned the respect of community members and leaders throughout the region for her unwavering efforts to find solutions to local concerns and her dedication to serving the people of Snohomish County through good government. “Jill’s appointment as ombudsman should come as no surprise because of her impeccable record as an advocate for the people of Northwest Washington. “I am pleased the people of Snohomish County will continue to benefit from Jill’s dedication to public service. I will miss Jill and her steadfast commitment to making progress for the people of the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Seattle will keep its daily flight to Haneda Airport in Tokyo, Japan, as a result of efforts by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. Larsen led the Washington state delegation in pushing the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) earlier this year to protect Seattle’s daily service to Haneda. DOT announced today that it is rejecting petitions by competing airlines to move service out of Seattle, and that Delta will be permitted to continue the daily Seattle-Haneda service. “The Puget Sound region is an industry hub for everything from aerospace to retail, and we are a gateway to Asia for the rest of the country. The daily flight between Seattle and Haneda facilitates both business and tourism, which is great news for our local economy. “I am pleased DOT recognizes the many benefits the Seattle-Haneda flight provides for travelers and for our country’s engagement with Asia,” Larsen said. The U.S. has limited flight slots available at Haneda each day. DOT determined in 2013 that Seattle was the best use of one daily slot to serve U.S. travelers. Today’s announcement reaffirms that decision. ###
03.27.2015	Grant allows Marysville School District to reimburse school officials for overtime in wake of school shooting last October (Washington, D.C.) – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) applauded the announcement that their request for federal support for Marysville School District has been approved. The grant of $50,000 will go to the school district in the next several days. After the devastating shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in October 2014, Senators Murray and Cantwell and Reps. Larsen and DelBene wrote a letter to U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan on January 12th, 2015 for a grant to help offset the costs the district incurred in the aftermath of the shooting. “I am so glad to see the Marysville community receive support to help compensate staff and personnel who acted as heroes after such a tragic event, sacrificing their time, energy, and resources to the school,” said Senator Patty Murray. “This is just a small step in helping them down the long road of recovery, and I know that Marysville is strong enough to keep moving forward while remembering the loved ones lost that day last October.” “My focus remains on helping the Marysville community heal from this terrible tragedy, and I welcome today’s announcement that vital support is coming for the Marysville-Pilchuck School District,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “We stand with students, school employees and area residents who were affected, and are inspired by the resilience and unity this community has shown.” “The Marysville and Tulalip communities remain resilient and strong after last year’s tragedy, and I hope this grant will offer additional support as students, teachers, families and the communities continue to recover,” said Congressman Larsen. “After a tragedy like this, lives are changed forever and we will always remember the young lives lost,” said Congresswoman DelBene. “I hope these funds help those who gave their time and expertise to support their community in the aftermath of this heartbreaking event.” Project SERV (School Emergency Response to Violence) grants, issued through the Department of Education, provide funding for short- and long-term education-related services for school districts and institutions of higher education to help these educational institutions recover from violent or traumatic events. The Project SERV grant going to the Marysville School District will help reimburse the school district for transportation expenditures, as extra funds were needed to ensure students were able to get to school, as well as costs for substitute teachers, who stood in for classroom staff who were unable to immediately return to work following the tragedy. Click here to see the letter the members wrote requesting the grant in January. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Don Young (R-AK) have once again introduced bipartisan legislation in the House to fight childhood hunger and expand access to summer meal programs for kids across the country. Young and Larsen’s legislation, the Summer Meals Act of 2015, is designed to provide children with year-round access to nutritious meals by expanding the eligibility requirements for federal summer meal programs, reducing red tape for local organizations, and making meals and snacks more readily available during weekends and after school hours. The bill would also support transportation needs in rural areas where access to summer meal programs is often made more difficult. “Making sure kids get regular, nutritious meals year-round is critical to their health and their ability to learn,” said Congressman Rick Larsen. “But hunger is a persistent problem: nearly one in six people in my district suffer from food insecurity. That is why I am introducing the Summer Meals Act, to make sure communities that are home to a significant number of children in low-income families can participate in federal summer meal programs. And the bill would expand kids’ access to meals and snacks during times they are most vulnerable to hunger – summer, weekends and after school hours. I am pleased to work with Rep. Young and our colleagues in the Senate in a bipartisan way to make sure our kids get enough to eat every day.” “This bipartisan effort is important to kids throughout Alaska and the Nation who need better access to meals during the summer months,” said Congressman Don Young. “As a former teacher, I know that these programs significantly help kids maintain their academic success throughout the summer and allow them to begin the school year healthy and ready to learn. This bill works to eliminate some of bureaucracy within the program and increase the impact of summer meal programs in rural areas of the country.” A companion bill to the Summer Meals Act of 2015 was introduced on February 27, 2015 by Senators Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY) and Lisa Murkowski(R-AK). Both bills have received significant support from afterschool programs and food advocacy organizations across the nation: “This legislation is critical to feed more kids. With less than 16 percent of the 21 million kids who receive free or reduced lunches during the school year currently accessing summer meals, there is a lot of room to improve how we keep kids from going hungry during the summer. This legislation will reduce barriers for community partners to establish summer meals sites while helping kids get to those sites. Kids will get more nutritious food, better connect with their communities, and make a summer full of good memories instead of worrying about where their next meal will come from,” said Gina Clark, director of public policy for Food Lifeline, a Seattle-based organization that provides 88,000 meals a day to people struggling with hunger throughout Western Washington state. "The Summer Meals Act is a critical piece of bipartisan legislation to help fight childhood hunger throughout Alaska, and the United States. This bill reduces government red tape that prevent youth programs and communities from feeding hungry kids during the summer months. By lowering the community poverty level threshold from 50% to 40% our partners will be able to feed more hungry kids during the summer. Congressman Young listened to Alaskans about the need to improve access to child nutrition programs during the summer months, and has taken action on those concerns. The Summer Meals Act will reduce administrative burden, and streamline rules and regulations, which will make it easier for more communities to host meal programs. This means more hungry kids in Alaska will have access to the nutrition they need to be active and learning during the summer months,” said Thomas Azzarella, Director of the Alaska Afterschool Network A fact sheet about the bill is available here. ###
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed House passage of a bill that ensures seniors can continue seeing their doctors, provides funding for community health centers and extends health insurance for children. Larsen voted in favor of H.R. 2, the bipartisan Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. The bill permanently repeals the flawed Medicare sustainable growth rate (SGR) that for years has caused uncertainty for seniors and their doctors, and advances other key health care priorities for Northwest Washington and the country. “Repealing the flawed Medicare payment formula moves our country in the direction we should be going with health care reimbursement – from volume to value. After years of annual so-called fixes, Congress today has passed a real solution that will protect seniors’ ability to see their doctors. “The bill also provides critical funding for community health centers, which are vital to the health and well-being of the most vulnerable members of our communities, and CHIP, which helps make sure low-income children have access to health coverage,” Larsen said. Many Washington state and national organizations support H.R. 2 and the positive direction it moves the country. “After years of discussion and debate, we are encouraged by the bipartisan movement in Congress to finally repeal the Medicare SGR and end years of instability in the program. We see this as an important and vital step in securing access to care for our nation's seniors, veterans, military families and people with disabilities. The physicians of Washington state thank Congressman Larsen for his support and leadership in tackling this important issue,” said Jennifer Hanscom, CEO of the Washington State Medical Association. “H.R. 2 offers stability for the 48 million Medicare patients and the providers who treat them by helping to ensure that older Americans continue to get the health care they need. We appreciate our House delegation's leadership on this matter, and we look forward to working with our Senate leaders to make this a reality,” said Rick Cooper, CEO for The Everett Clinic. “The SGR fix is a terrific step forward. It solves a long-term problem in providing fair Medicare payments to physicians without making damaging cuts to health care access for our seniors and low-income residents. It also extends a critical health insurance program for tens of thousands of children in Washington state. We greatly appreciate Rep. Larsen’s leadership and support,” said Scott Bond, CEO of the Washington State Hospital Association. “Access to health care for many people we care for is at risk if it is not addressed now. H.R. 2 is the only opportunity to get the Health Center funding cliff addressed before it takes effect,” said Mary C. Looker, CEO for the Washington Association of Community & Migrant Health Centers. “Washington State University is grateful for Congressman Rick Larsen's support of extending the critical Teaching Health Graduate Medical Education program. Educating more doctors and advancing the health of our citizens is another example of WSU’s commitment to creating a better world through our teaching, research, and outreach—a mission to which we’ve been dedicated for nearly 125 years. With the support of members like Rick Larsen, we will be able to meet our commitment,” said Ken Roberts, Acting Dean of Washington State University's College of Medical Science. “As the mother of a teenager with type 1 diabetes (T1D), I appreciate Congressman Larsen’s support of this legislation, which includes a two-year renewal of the Special Diabetes Program, a program that is leading to better treatments, prevention strategies and ultimately a cure for T1D and its costly complications,” said Janice Merdgen, a local volunteer with JDRF, a global organization that funds T1D research. H.R. 2 contains a number of health-related provisions, including: Permanent repeal of the Medicare sustainable growth rate; Provides $7.2 billion in funding over two years for community health centers; and Extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program through FY2017. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against the Republican budget that fails to invest in the priorities of his constituents by neglecting infrastructure, cutting funding for students trying to access higher education, and repealing the Affordable Care Act. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 27, the Republican FY2016 Budget Resolution, by a vote of 228-199. Larsen voted in favor of the Democratic alternative budget. “The Republican budget does not speak to the issues that I hear about from my constituents. The budget should be a statement of our country’s values. This budget’s lack of commitment to investing in the repair of our roads, bridges and highways is surprising and disappointing. Freezing help for kids going to college is disconcerting at a time when our message should be that America will invest in our young people. “Five years in, the Affordable Care Act has dropped the uninsured rate to its lowest recorded level, and health care costs are rising at the slowest rate in nearly 50 years. Yet the Republicans included a repeal of the ACA in their budget, their 57th attempt to repeal or undermine law. “This attempt, however, has not stopped Republicans from using real savings from the ACA in combination with other illusory savings to claim they will balance the budget in 10 years. “Finally, the Republican budget adds $38 billion above what the President requested to the Overseas Contingency Operations account. This account is supposed to be for war funding and is not subject to sequester caps. Moving non-emergency Pentagon spending into the OCO account goes against every fiscally responsible effort to force the Pentagon to live within its means. “I voted in favor of the Democratic budget, which makes the investments we need to grow our economy and help people participate fully in their communities. Those investments include long-term funding for our roads, bridges and highways, as well as full funding for Pell Grants and other programs that help our students access the higher education they need to become the strong workers of tomorrow,” Larsen said. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON—About 97 acres of Samish Tribal lands in Skagit and San Juan counties would be permanently protected because of legislation that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has introduced. The Samish Indian Nation Land Conveyance Act of 2015 would put the land, currently owned by the Samish Tribe, into federal trust for the tribe. “Permanently protecting these approximately 97 acres will help ensure the Samish Tribe can continue building a solid foundation for economic growth and preserve important community services for its members. Putting these lands into federal trust will give the Tribe more certainty about its future. The Samish Tribe and other local leaders are strong partners, and I look forward to working with them to get this bill passed,” Larsen said. "The Samish Indian Nation is working hard to provide for our people to revitalize our communities while protecting our culture and traditions. Rep. Larsen has been a true partner in working with the Tribe to make this goal a reality. This Act would place a modest 97 acres of land into trust, including our tribal administrative complex, longhouse where our Head Start Center and Elders programs are located, and our elder/community garden. The Tribe already owns these lands and it would allow the Tribe to finally have a permanent land base that it has not had due to historical injustices. The Tribe has no plans to change the existing uses of these lands. This legislation contains a gaming prohibition as well as a provision specifying the bill would have no impacts on any tribe's treaty rights. The Tribe appreciates and acknowledges the relationship it shares with the City of Anacortes, Skagit County, San Juan County, our Representatives in the Washington Legislature, and the communities at large. We are thankful for their collaboration with us on this legislation and for their friendship and partnership,” said Samish Indian Nation Chairman Tom Wooten. The legislation would take about 97 acres of Samish-owned land on five parcels and place them in federal trust to be used by the tribe for community and economic purposes. Those parcels include a Head Start and Early Learning Center and the tribal administration complex in Anacortes, as well as agricultural land and salmon habitat in Skagit County. The language of the bill prohibits gaming on the land once it is taken into trust. It does not affect the rights of other tribes, including hunting and fishing on any lands. A map of the affected land is available here. Larsen introduced versions of the bill in 2012 and 2013, but Congress did not take action. The legislation has been endorsed by local leaders including the City of Anacortes Mayor, the Skagit County Board of Commissioners, State Senator Kevin Ranker, and State Representatives Kristine Lytton and Jeff Morris. “This bill will help the Samish Indian Nation preserve their culture, provide housing, health care, and education, and meet the many other needs of the Tribe’s citizens,” said Anacortes Mayor Laurie Gere. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today recognized the two-year anniversary of the San Juan Islands National Monument designation by applauding the hard work of the community and the partnerships that made the monument a reality, as well as noting the importance of conserving lands and waters. “The San Juan Islands community worked hard to protect the nearly 1,000 acres that make up the monument. Now residents are working hard to carry out the designation, protecting the area’s plant and wildlife diversity and making sure the land is available for current and future generations to enjoy. “Residents of the San Juan Islands understand the importance of the environment in which they live. I am working to protect Washington state’s environment, including preserving lands like the San Juan National Monument and the waters of Illabot Creek in Skagit County. These successes are great examples of what we can accomplish when we build consensus and work in the same direction,” Larsen said. ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, urged the Obama Administration in a letter with other U.S. House members this week to protect U.S. security interests in nuclear negotiations with Iran, while underscoring that he will carefully review any agreement that arises out of the ongoing negotiations. Larsen signed onto a letter to the President highlighting some of the remaining concerns about the negotiations, including access to suspected nuclear sites and long-lasting constraints on Iran’s nuclear program. “I continue to support the ongoing negotiations about Iran’s nuclear program, and I signed a responsible letter with my colleagues urging the President to remain strong in ensuring Iran cannot build a nuclear weapon. “Negotiations are at a critical juncture, and I am hopeful that a diplomatic solution will prevail. I will review any agreement and the feedback I get on it from my constituents to make sure it prevents a nuclear Iran and upholds U.S. interests,” Larsen said. ###
03.24.2015	(WASHINGTON) – Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) today reintroduced legislation to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to establish a United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs. Currently, 20 government agencies are handling Arctic policy. Under this legislation, an Ambassador would be charged with all coordination and serve as Chair of the Arctic Council when the U.S. assumes Chairmanship of the Arctic Council in April. Congressman Larsen: “Our country faces a steep opportunity curve when it comes to the Arctic as we prepare to take over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council. We have a lot of work ahead of us, from protecting the unique Arctic environment and the people and animals who live there, to improving our emergency response ability when ships get into trouble. Coordinating the many federal stakeholders working on Arctic issues is imperative to our success as an Arctic nation. That is why I support an ambassador-level position to better manage our many interests in the Arctic and to signal our country’s commitment to international cooperation on Arctic policy.” Congressman Sensenbrenner: “An ambassador-level position is necessary to show the U.S. is serious about being an Arctic nation. Russia continues to make claims and China is increasing its Arctic presence. The U.S. should coordinate its Arctic policy to protect our commercial interests and domestic energy supply at the highest level.” The GAO reported last year that the U.S. needs a better strategy to coordinate and prioritize its policies related to the Arctic region. The text of the bill can be found here. ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee’s hearing, “Options for FAA Air Traffic Control Reform.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling this hearing to explore alternatives to FAA air traffic management. I appreciate our continued bipartisan cooperation as we move toward a timely FAA reauthorization bill. Today we will hear from our witnesses with a variety of ideas about how to improve efficiency and certainty in the management of our nation’s airspace. I welcome any discussion of what we need to do to keep our airspace the most efficient and safest in the world. But before we address that, we must ask ourselves: what is the problem we are seeking to fix? The Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported last year that 71 of 76 aviation stakeholders said the air traffic control system is “very” to “extremely” safe. Today, no one will argue that the airline industry is the healthiest it has ever been–due largely to the efforts of the industry and FAA to improve efficiencies over the last decade. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) projects that airlines worldwide are expected to make a collective $25 billion profit in 2015. IATA also suggests that U.S. carriers will continue to set the standard for financial performance, with the highest profit margins worldwide. That is good news, since a healthy airline industry is critically important for our international competitiveness. We are also living in the safest period in aviation history. Every day, U.S. airlines safely transport about 2 million passengers around the country. And with the important safety improvements that Congress mandated following the tragic Colgan Air crash in 2009, the aviation system is getting ever safer. At the same time, NextGen implementation has faced hurdles, but I want to be clear: FAA is making progress. In fact, GAO reported last year that only five of 76 aviation stakeholders said they had little to no confidence in the FAA’s ability to implement NextGen. This time last year, we were uncertain when we would see a plan for implementing DataComm. Now, in response to a tasking by Chairman LoBiondo and me, the FAA has a plan, with industry support, to implement DataComm. This time last year, we were uncertain about the path forward for performance-based navigation (PBN) procedures. Now, again in response to our tasking, the FAA has a plan—with industry support—for accelerating PBN procedure implementation. And the list goes on. Airlines are making money, the system is safe, and the FAA, with close Congressional oversight, is making progress on NextGen. So the question must be asked – what is the problem we are tackling when we talk about reforming our air traffic control system? When I talk to 10 stakeholders, I hear about 14 different problems. And when I talk to even just one stakeholder about proposed solutions such as the private corporation model – I immediately think of at least 14 problems, including: What bargaining protections would apply to the employees of the new entity? Would employees maintain their federal benefits? How would the new organization work seamlessly with the FAA to move NextGen forward? What kind of liability insurance would the new entity have? How would the new entity coordinate with the Department of Defense in a time of crisis? Would small communities be guaranteed service as the new entity gains efficiencies by closing towers? So I want to make sure that we are all clear on whether we should address many problems with one solution, or whether we should address those problems individually. We must make sure that FAA reauthorization is not a science experiment. Because with 2 million passengers in the skies on any given day, we must remember what is at stake if we make any changes to our safe air traffic control system. If we resolve to go big in this bill with significant air traffic reforms, we must do so methodically—with a clear statement of the problem we are trying to solve and a clear understanding of how to solve it without compromising safety in any way. Finally, I want to note something that is not a surprise to anyone here. We have six months to pass an FAA bill. There are many issues to address with ATO reform, and I do not think any of our witnesses will tell us today that the diverse interests in the industry are coalescing around a single proposal. Without that happening, I find it difficult to foresee an on-time FAA reauthorization bill if we are to tackle this topic. If stakeholders want to push for this proposal, they need to put something on the table, or risk heading us down the chaotic path of multiple, short-term FAA bills as we had before the most recent reauthorization. And that will only contribute to reform proponents’ claims about the damaging impacts of unstable and unpredictable funding. I am hopeful we will make progress on these issues today. I yield back. ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON—The Affordable Care Act is working for thousands of families across Washington state who can access health care more easily as a result of the law that was enacted five years ago today, said Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. “The Affordable Care Act has opened the door to health care for millions of people nationwide who otherwise would not have been able to afford coverage. Five years in, the uninsured rate is at its lowest recorded level and health care costs are rising at the slowest rate in nearly 50 years. The law is working. People can access the coverage they need to stay healthy and more financially stable. “Washington state is a nationwide leader in expanding people’s access to health care, and our state experienced the fourth biggest drop in the nation in our uninsured rate last year. Thousands of people in the Second District can more easily access preventive care like wellness visits and cancer screenings, including about 102,000 seniors on Medicare. And people in our region, including up to 36,000 children, no longer have to worry about getting denied coverage because of preexisting medical conditions. “I have heard from people in Northwest Washington who were able to find coverage that better fit their needs, and who otherwise would not have been able to afford health coverage. Even as Republicans continue to hold votes to repeal this successful law, I will keep working to protect access to affordable health coverage for the thousands of hardworking families and individuals across the Pacific Northwest who are benefitting from the law,” Larsen said. President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law on March 23, 2010. More information about the health care law and Larsen’s support for it is available here. ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The congressional delegation representing the affected communities recognized the one-year remembrance of the State Route 530 mudslide that devastated Oso, Arlington and Darrington. A massive mudslide on March 22, 2014, killed 43 people, destroyed homes, damaged public infrastructure and blocked the Stillaguamish River. Within a matter of seconds, a mass of earthen material rushed down the mountainside, burying people in their homes under 40 feet of mud, forever affecting the lives of thousands of Washingtonians. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) have visited the affected communities multiple times since the mudslide. “Oso, Darrington, Arlington, the Stillaguamish Tribe and the Sauk-Suiattle Tribe have been through so much this past year, but you can’t keep these communities down. Their response and resilience has been incredible since the mudslide,” the members of the delegation said. “Disasters like these are a time for all of us to come together to help the affected families and communities get back on their feet. We will continue to push for resources to help the region recover and for research into how we can prevent and mitigate tragedies from future disasters.” The communities remembered the disaster with a moment of silence at 10:37 a.m. on Sunday – exactly one year after the mudslide. ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02 and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today called on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to improve its transparency, communication and financial stewardship of the Skagit General Investigation Study. The Corps District Office in Seattle has applied for more time and asked for more money for the Skagit GI, even as the current study was supposed to conclude in less than three months. “We are calling on your office to act as quickly as possible to determine the cause of the confusion within the Corps for the need of a waiver from the existing parameters. Skagit County needs every guarantee that the Army Corps is proceeding with the Skagit GI in a cooperative way, with timely communication and the highest standards of financial stewardship possible. We sincerely hope the Corps is a committed partner in long term flood protection solutions in the Skagit Valley,” Larsen and DelBene wrote. Larsen and DelBene have long been committed to the Skagit GI as a system-wide approach to addressing the long history of devastating floods in the Skagit River valley. They are working closely with Skagit County officials and the Corps to keep the project moving forward. The full text of their letter follows. March 20, 2015 Theodore A. (Tab) Brown, P.E. Chief, Planning and Policy Division US Army Corps of Engineers 441 G Street NW Washington, DC 20314 Dear. Mr. Brown: We are writing to express our serious concern with the apparent lack of transparency and communication failures of the United States Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps) with Skagit County, the local sponsor of the Skagit River General Investigation (Skagit GI). Our offices and Skagit County were surprised to hear that the Skagit GI was no longer on track to be completed on time and within budget. Our disappointment deepened when it became obvious that the Corps was planning to exceed the Federal Cost Share Agreement (FCSA) by $440,000 in FY15 without informing the local sponsor. It was inappropriate for our offices to be the first to inform the local sponsor of this oversight. In addition, we are concerned to learn that the Skagit GI is expected to go beyond another year of study for an unconfirmed cost expected to be greater than $1.1 million in FY16. This study, scheduled to be concluded in less than three months, has added an additional $1.54 million in cost with no clear explanation. In a February 2015 meeting with Skagit County representatives, Seattle District Corps staff requested the county’s support for a waiver from the so-called 3x3x3 rule that put in place a $3 million cap on the study and a three-year schedule that started June 1, 2012. Prior to asking for support of the waiver, the Corps was unable to offer a concrete timeline for the investigation’s completion, that they have no definitive answer to the cost of additional study, and still cannot adequately explain why a waiver is needed. In response to requests for detailed information, the Corps has said it “cannot make any guarantees,” which is not acceptable. Asking Skagit County to agree to a waiver in this manner would be the equivalent to asking the county to bet a blank check on the outcome of a shell game. The Corps has not adequately planned its resources nor has it provided clear expectations and direction to the Skagit GI’s local sponsor. According to the Seattle District, the need for a waiver has been known internally for nearly a year, yet Skagit County only heard mentions of it in late October. For having a year of preparation for a waiver, the Corps has little to offer as justification for going over budget and over the current timeline. When pressed, the conversation about the origin of the waiver results in a great deal of confusion between the Army Corps Headquarters and the Seattle District. If a waiver was needed to carry the study into FY16, the Corps did nothing to prepare for their own share of the costs, nor prepare the local partner. The matter of amending the FCSA was first mentioned to Skagit County by our offices in January of this year even though the Corps had awarded the Skagit GI $220,000 over the $3 million cap in FY15. We are calling on your office to act as quickly as possible to determine the cause of the confusion within the Corps for the need of a waiver from the existing parameters. Skagit County needs every guarantee that the Army Corps is proceeding with the Skagit GI in a cooperative way, with timely communication and the highest standards of financial stewardship possible. In addition, our offices request a briefing in Washington D.C. with headquarters and regional staff to address the need for a waiver, a detailed schedule, an explanation of costs associated with another year of study, and for assurances the Corps is working to keep the Skagit GI as close to the original timeline and budget as possible. Our offices, along with Skagit County, have long been committed to the Skagit GI. We, along with Skagit County staff and elected officials, are taking the matter of cost and timeline overruns very seriously. Two months have gone by since we met with the Corps and Skagit County still is no closer to a clear path forward, pushing schedules back further. We are troubled by these unexpected and unacceptable delays in what should be the final stretch of the Skagit River GI. We sincerely hope the Corps is a committed partner in long term flood protection solutions in the Skagit Valley. We look forward to your prompt and detailed response. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress ###
03.20.2015	Larsen will hear feedback about recent commission recommendations on military compensation and retirement benefits WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will moderate a roundtable with General Peter W. Chiarelli, U.S. Army (Ret.) to hear reactions and recommendations from leaders of several local military and veterans groups about a recent report on military compensation. The event will include time for questions from the public. The event will take place on Saturday, March 28 in Everett and will focus on the recently released report from the Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission. Members of the media and the public are invited to attend. Details follow. The commission was established as part of the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act, the country’s annual defense policy bill, to conduct a review of military compensation and retirement systems, and to make recommendations about modernizing them. General Chiarelli was a member of the commission and will offer opening remarks about the commission’s process and findings. Larsen and General Chiarelli will then moderate a roundtable with local veterans and veterans service providers to hear their reactions and feedback about the commission’s report. Time for questions from the public will follow. Saturday, March 28 Organizations on the Panel County Veteran Service Offices Community College Veterans Resource Centers American Legion Fleet Reserve Association Navy Transition Assistance Programs Other organizations have been invited 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Everett School District Community Resource Center 3900 Broadway Avenue Everett ###
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to uphold the power of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to streamline the union organizing process. NLRB set new rules in December that are designed to update and ease organizing efforts in the private sector. However, the House of Representatives approved a resolution today to reverse these rules. Larsen voted against the resolution. “A strong economic foundation for our workers requires fair and secure workplaces, including the ability to unionize easily. That is why I am a staunch advocate of the NLRB and the role it plays to protect our workers’ rights. I voted against this bill that undercuts the power of the NLRB to do its job. “Organized labor increases wages and improves the safety of working conditions, effects that ripple into the broader economy and strengthen the middle class. I will continue to make sure the board stays strong and able to preserve fair and secure work environments,” Larsen said. Larsen voted against a bill during the previous session of Congress that would have hurt the NLRB’s decision making abilities. He continues to work to support job growth, higher wages and secure benefits for workers and families. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that in 2014, full-time workers who were union members had a median weekly wage of $970, compared with $763 for nonunion members. ###
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will hold a series of town halls with constituents to share information about his work in Congress and answer questions. Residents of the Second Congressional District and press are invited to attend. Orcas Island – Sunday, March 29 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Eastsound Fire Hall 45 Lavender Lane Burlington – Monday, March 30 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Burlington Visitor Information Center 520 E. Fairhaven Avenue Coupeville – Tuesday, March 31 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Coupeville Recreation Hall 901 Northwest Alexander Street Everett – Wednesday, April 1 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Everett School District Community Resource Center 3900 Broadway Bellingham – Thursday, April 2 6:30 p.m. – 7:30 p.m. Western Washington University Academic Instruction Center Building Lecture Hall 210 516 High Street Campus Map ###
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON—Naval Air Station Whidbey Island is directing EA-18G Growler pilots to keep their landing gear up until they are over water as they fly routes over Lopez Island to lessen jet noise impacts, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Officials from NAS Whidbey Island recently performed informal sound tests in areas on Lopez Island. One of the tests involved flying two jets overhead, one with landing gear up and one with landing gear down. Officials discovered a significant noise difference between the two jets. As a result the base is now directing pilots to keep their wheels up until they are over water when they are flying approaches that go over Lopez Island. “Residents in the San Juan Islands have shared their concerns with me regarding jet noise from EA-18G Growler operations at NAS Whidbey Island, including at a community meeting I attended last fall on Lopez Island. I have asked the Navy to consider how Growler operations affect local communities, and I appreciate the Navy’s ongoing work to address these concerns. The Navy expects this operational change to lessen the sound of flights over sections of Lopez Island, while ensuring pilots can maintain the training they need. “I have been working with local officials and the Navy to find ways to protect the health of the base and ensure servicemembers get the training they need, while addressing the effects of the noise on communities across the north Puget Sound region. This operational change is a strong example of how ongoing communication between local communities and the base can help address these concerns. I am hopeful we can continue to find solutions, such as a hush house at the base to muffle on-ground engine testing and new technology to reduce engine noise. I remain committed to ensuring that NASWI remains a premier Navy asset, and I will continue working to address the impact of noise on local communities,” Larsen said. ###
03.06.2015	WASHINGTON—Local school districts that serve military families and Indian tribes would continue to receive critical funding as a result of a bipartisan bill introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Kristi Noem, SD. The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2015 (H.R. 1318) would continue funding for Impact Aid, which provides payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes. “Impact Aid provides critical support to schools in Coupeville, La Conner, Marysville and Oak Harbor to make sure students have the best opportunities to succeed today and in the future. This bipartisan bill ensures permanent, on-time payments for school districts where federal activity like military bases limits funding available to public schools through property taxes,” Larsen said. The majority of public school funding comes from local property taxes. Families on military bases and on Indian lands do not pay local property taxes, and localities do not collect taxes from lands owned by the federal government such as national forests, denying local schools their traditional funding source. Impact Aid makes up the difference, providing direct payments to school districts that serve large numbers of federally-connected students. “In the past, bureaucratic red tape has delayed critical Impact Aid payments to South Dakota schools, making it difficult to meet needs of South Dakota’s young people,” said Noem. “The concepts in this bipartisan legislation will help cut through that red tape and continue to deliver critical education dollars to our schools more quickly and efficiently – now and long into the future.” The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2015 will: Make the Impact Aid program permanent; Require the Department of Education to make Impact Aid payments to school districts within three years; Standardize Impact Aid eligibility for districts with at least 45 percent federally-connected students; Eliminate uncertainty and ensure equity in funding distribution by improving how federal land is valued. Larsen has long advocated for Impact Aid. He successfully included his Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act in the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act, though the provision was not permanent. The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2015 would enact this provision permanently. Oak Harbor School District Superintendent Lance Gibbon endorsed the legislation and thanked Larsen for his leadership on the bill. “Congressman Larsen's efforts to ensure timely Impact Aid payments has helped provide a more reliable and predictable funding stream to our schools,” Gibbon said. “Impact Aid is essential to ensure that all of our students get the education they need and deserve in Oak Harbor.” The text of the bill is available here. Sens. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, and John Thune, R-SD, introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Learn more about the Impact Aid program here. ###
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will focus on local businesses and initiatives that are growing the local economy, as well as efforts that are creating opportunity, during his time in Northwest Washington over the next week. Larsen will tour local manufacturers to learn more about how they are growing and creating jobs, as well as what he can do to support these successful local initiatives. He also will focus on local efforts that are improving opportunities for people to participate in their communities by expanding access to health care, treating substance abuse and building community spaces. “Manufacturing is a job-creator in the Pacific Northwest. Touring local manufacturers like Umbra Cuscinetti in Everett, which contributes to our aerospace industry, and Turnco Wood Goods on Whidbey Island, which builds furniture and other wood products for sale nationwide, helps me understand what more I can do to support our businesses to grow and create jobs. “Another of my top priorities in Congress is to break down barriers so all people can fully participate in our economy and our democracy. Organizations like Community Health Center of Snohomish County are working to ensure people have access to the services they need, such as primary health care, to stay healthy and contribute to their communities. I look forward to learning more about these organizations’ successes and how I can support them into the future,” Larsen said. Members of the media will be invited to attend Larsen’s tours of these local initiatives. More details will be forthcoming. ###
03.05.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for and the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill this week to invest in Amtrak and other rail infrastructure to improve the safety and capacity of the country’s passenger rail system. The Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, or PRRIA (H.R. 749), authorizes $7.2 billion for passenger rail over the next four years, including $300 million annually for rail infrastructure. “Investment in our roads, bridges, runways and rail systems creates good paying jobs and keeps people moving efficiently and safely. I am pleased this bill includes funds to improve rail crossings at highways, because as our economy grows our railways and roadways are getting more congested. People in my district are understandably concerned about increased shipments of crude oil by rail, and better crossings will help improve safety and ensure the smooth flow of both trains and cars in Northwest Washington and nationwide. “I am also pleased this bill requires better coordination between Amtrak and states to improve passenger rail operations and transparency. “When Americans think Amtrak, they often think of the Northeast corridor. But we in the Pacific Northwest know Amtrak Cascades provides essential transportation between our small towns and urban centers. “This bill makes strides in keeping passenger rail accessible and investing in critical infrastructure to improve rail safety,” Larsen said. Larsen has been a leader in Congress in pushing for improved safety standards for crude traveling by railand investments in rail safety infrastructure. He sent a letter to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx last summer asking for better investments in rail crossings to mitigate the impacts of increased rail traffic in the Pacific Northwest. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, hailed House passage today of a clean bill that will keep the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) open through September 30, 2015. Larsen voted in favor of the bill, after calling multiple times for Republicans to allow a vote on a clean bill fully funding the department. “The House chose the responsible path to governing today by passing a bill to fund DHS through Sept. 30. This vote means people will stay on the job, and they will get paid for the work they are doing when they are doing it. It also means we can put behind us this game of jeopardizing thousands of people’s jobs and our national security, and get to work on many important issues Congress needs to address, such as investments in transportation and education,” Larsen said. Full funding for DHS means more than 6,100 DHS employees in Washington state and 212,000 DHS employees nationwide will receive reliable paychecks for the work they do to keep the U.S. safe. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today about a Government Accountability Office report indicating weaknesses with the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) security systems, putting the agency at risk for cyber threats. “Our airspace is a worldwide leader in safety. But to maintain this standard, we need to protect our airspace from threats to information systems that keep our skies safe. “The GAO report shows that FAA has more work to do to ensure the integrity of the airspace for the flying public. Cybersecurity must play a fundamental role in FAA’s safety operations, and I will be reviewing the report carefully to see whether Congress can help improve FAA’s security practices,” Larsen said. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee’s hearing, “Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization: Enabling a 21st Century Aviation System.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Good morning. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for holding this hearing on Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization. As we continue our yearlong series of hearings on FAA reauthorization today, it is time that we hear from the agency itself about what is working and what is not, and what Congress can do to maintain the U.S. aviation system’s impressive safety record and global leadership. The authorization for the FAA expires in less than eight months. There is no doubt that we have our work cut out for us. But I am personally committed to do my part to work along with Chairman LoBiondo to ensure that we complete a bill on time, without the need for an extension. I expect we will cover a lot of ground, so let me walk through a few of my priorities briefly. I strongly believe that the reauthorization must maintain or enhance safety; invest responsibly in the aviation system; move NextGen forward; advance certification reform; and move closer toward safe integration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS). First, safety. I want to be clear that I will not support any efforts to roll back any safety improvements of the past several years. The FAA has made great progress implementing the mandates of the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010, and any attempts to undo this work, including any weakening of pilot qualification rules, is a nonstarter for me. Next, investment. We must provide stable and adequate funding to mitigate the impacts that sequestration and budgetary constraints have had on the agency. In light of the FAA's ongoing fiscal challenges, potential reforms of the air traffic control system have been a popular topic of conversation. I have said this before, and I will say it again: reauthorization must not be a science experiment. Our air traffic system is not fundamentally broken. If we resolve to be “transformational,” we must do so with a clear statement of the problem we are trying to solve and clear understanding of how to solve it without compromising what is working—safety. On NextGen, there are clearly opportunities for Congress to streamline, optimize, and enhance the NextGen effort in the reauthorization bill. Last October, in response to a tasking from Chairman LoBiondo and me, the FAA selected four priorities identified by the RTCA NextGen Advisory Committee that will produce real benefits for airlines and the flying public. The Chairman and I will remain laser-focused and in lockstep in seeing these priorities through and continuing to push the FAA to make progress in other important NextGen programs. When the Committee met in January to discuss the FAA's certification programs, we heard that U.S. aircraft, engine, and component manufacturers often experience costly delays in certification projects. We have an opportunity in this bill to optimize the certification process—to make it more efficient, more predictable, and more transparent. I intend to seize that opportunity. I look forward to hearing from Administrator Huerta about what he intends to do to maintain our global leadership in certifying new technologies and what, if anything, Congress can do to help. Finally, there is the issue of Unmanned Aircraft Systems, or UAS. The UAS industry has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs. The FAA estimates as many as 7,500 small commercial UAS may be in use within the next three years. The magnitude of the safety implications of incorporating this new technology cannot be overstated. Our nation’s airspace is the most sophisticated and congested in the world, so safely integrating these new users into the airspace is no small task. We must figure out how to ensure the FAA is keeping pace with steps toward integration, without compromising the safety of the system. Our aviation system is the world's finest. But in the face of strong global competition, we must work hard every day to keep it that way. This reauthorization provides a historic opportunity to do so. Thank you. I yield back. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, called on House Republicans to vote on a clean bill to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), after the House voted down a three-week funding bill to keep the department open. “The responsible way to govern is to pass a DHS funding bill through Sept. 30. Let’s keep people on the job and pay them for the work they are doing when they are doing it. “The three-week funding bill I voted against was the irresponsible approach to funding our homeland security needs, continuing to jeopardize thousands of people’s paychecks and our country’s safety. “I stand ready to get this funding bill done so DHS can do its job for the American people, and I hope Republicans will join me,” Larsen said. A shutdown would mean more than 212,000 DHS employees nationwide, including 6,100 in Washington state, would either be furloughed or would continue working without pay. Larsen already has called on Republicans to let DHS do its job. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Small distilleries will be better positioned to grow and create new jobs if Congress passes a bill introduced today by Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Steve Stivers, OH-15. The Small Distilleries Fairness Act would help small distilleries compete on a level playing field. “Innovative local businesses like our small distilleries in Washington state are working hard to make our state a leader in this growing industry. Our bill will allow small distilleries to invest more in their businesses, spurring job creation and encouraging new distilleries to open up shop. Because small distillers rely on local farms for their ingredients, local farmers also stand to benefit from this bill,” Larsen said. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy. They employ at least half of Washington state’s private workforce. Helping them grow is a key way I am working to invest in a healthy economic future for the Pacific Northwest.” “My top priority in Congress is getting our economy back on track and putting Americans back to work. I’m proud to co-sponsor this bill to provide more certainty on taxes for small business owners like Watershed Distillery in my district,” Stivers said. “Investing in local businesses allows them to grow our economy from the bottom up and create opportunity not just for Ohio, but for the nation as a whole.” Washington state is home to more than 100 small distilleries, including nearly a dozen in the Second Congressional District, making it one of the top producers in the nation. Small distilleries currently pay the same federal tax as large producers, while small breweries and wineries pay a significantly smaller tax rate than their larger competitors. Larsen and Stivers' bill would cut federal tax rates for businesses that produce less than 100,000 proof gallons of distilled spirits a year. “Reducing the excise tax on small businesses like craft distilleries is exactly the kind of smart investment that can help any start up that’s taking the risk to get up and running, while creating jobs and investing in the local community,” said John Lundin, owner of Bluewater Organic Distilling in Everett. “We’re taking a leap of faith with our expansion on the Everett waterfront, and additional resources would help us grow with more competitive pricing and expanded distribution. The craft distilling industry is a growth market and is becoming more popular with consumers. Reducing the federal excise tax would provide steadier footing for our industry, enabling us to contribute more to our communities.” Larsen first introduced a similar bill in 2013. Full text of the bill can be found here. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today condemned the terrorist group ISIL’s continued assault on religious minorities in Iraq and Syria, including their destruction of artifacts from the ancient Assyrian empire housed inside the Mosul Museum in northern Iraq. “I am deeply angered and saddened by ISIL’s continued assaults against religious minority groups in Iraq and Syria. ISIL’s rampage has resulted in horrific killings, enslavement and ongoing terror for people across the region. “Yesterday, the terrorist group added another awful tactic to their already appalling arsenal: destroying ancient relics from the Assyrian empire. As if the killing and terror against the diverse peoples of the Middle East were not enough, ISIL is now attacking their history and culture, depriving children and grandchildren access to invaluable artifacts of their shared heritage. Despite their campaign of destruction, ISIL must know that destroying artifacts will not destroy faith,” Larsen said. ###
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON—As Republicans threaten to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) starting Saturday, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, called on the GOP to stop their political games that jeopardize the ability of the federal government to do its job of serving the American people. A shutdown would mean more than 212,000 DHS employees nationwide, including 6,100 in Washington state, would either be furloughed or would continue working without pay. “My staff has talked with DHS employees in Northwest Washington who are understandably worried about when their next paycheck might come, which for some could mean missing a rent payment. They also are worried that sinking morale could negatively affect the ability of the department to fulfill its mission. They want to be able to do their jobs without being political pawns. “Republicans have developed a dangerous habit of protesting policies they don’t like by shutting down government agencies. Our country’s national security should be an issue that everyone can agree is critical. But apparently making a political point is more important to Republicans than ensuring the DHS employees in my state and nationwide get paychecks for the work they do to keep us safe. “If Republicans don’t like President Obama’s immigration policies, they should channel their rage into voting on a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill instead of jeopardizing workers’ paychecks and our national security,” Larsen said. DHS funding runs out Saturday. Republicans are withholding DHS funding by demanding no money be spent to refocus U.S. immigration policies to help keep families together and better direct law enforcement resources to upholding public safety and national security, actions President Obama took last fall. Larsen and every other House Democrat have cosponsored a clean bill to fund DHS, but House leadership has not allowed a vote on the bill. Larsen supported the President’s executive action on immigration while calling on Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform as the real solution. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cosponsored a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, continuing his leadership to make sure Pacific Northwest businesses of all sizes have access to critical financing to sell their goods overseas. Larsen introduced and successfully advocated for passage of a bill to reauthorize and expand the Export-Import Bank in 2012. He was an original cosponsor of a bill to reauthorize the bank during the last Congress. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $71 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 17 companies, including 11 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. “Helping our businesses sell their products overseas creates jobs here at home. In my district, the Export-Import Bank supports thousands of jobs at companies of all sizes by helping these businesses get their goods into the hands of consumers worldwide. From large manufacturers to small- and medium-sized businesses seeking to expand their presence abroad, the bank creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. “For example, Electroimpact in Mukilteo manufactures aerospace assembly systems. I met with Electroimpact’s leadership today about the significance of the Export-Import Bank for their business. The bank is an important tool to give Electroimpact’s foreign customers confidence the business has the financing it needs to complete the sale, allowing the manufacturer to continue its history of job-creating growth. “I led the push to reauthorize and expand the bank in 2012 and will again fight to make sure U.S. businesses have the financing they need to sell their goods around the world. It is time for Congress to step up and make sure our companies of all sizes have the financing they need to sell their products overseas,” Larsen said. The Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act of 2015, H.R. 1031, reauthorizes the bank for 7 years and raises its lending cap by $5 billion every 2 years, to a total of $160 billion. The bank’s charter currently is set to expire on June 30, 2015. Since 2007, the Export-Import Bank has financed nearly $280 billion in U.S. exports. In 2012 and 2013, the bank returned $1.1 billion to the U.S. Treasury. Rep. Denny Heck, WA-10, introduced the reauthorization bill. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called for investments in initiatives that support long-term economic growth and opportunity in testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Budget. Larsen highlighted the importance of transportation investments, helping businesses export their products overseas, and education in Northwest Washington. The full text of Larsen’s testimony follows: Chairman Price, Ranking Member Van Hollen, and members of the Committee: Thank you for the chance to speak to you about investments in our economic future in Northwest Washington, where I am from, and across our nation. At the beginning of each Congress I write a set of goals to guide my actions and those of my office. These goals are the focal point of everything I do and are a daily reminder of the issues that matter to my constituents. My number one goal is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. It is with this goal in mind that I ask your support for essential programs that promote growth and opportunity by improving our transportation infrastructure, helping our businesses sell their goods, not our jobs, overseas, and educating a new generation of smart and talented workers. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. Investing in our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems will put people to work, keep goods moving, and improve safety for all of us. The collapse of the Interstate 5 Skagit River Bridge two years ago should compel Congress to act on these important investments. We need to maintain our infrastructure until it is old, and then we need to replace it. As summer construction season approaches and states face uncertainty about whether they can depend on federal funding for their projects to repair and upgrade their roads, bridges and highways, I urge the committee to embrace a long-term funding solution for the Highway Trust Fund. Just as my state’s economy depends on reliable and safe transportation networks, it also depends on access to international markets. Foreign trade touches 40 percent of all jobs in Washington state. When we export our products around the world, we create jobs here at home. I urge this committee to fund the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program, which helps small- and medium-sized businesses find new markets and overcome the hurdles to export. This program enabled Warm Industrial Nonwovens in my district to attend international trade shows and get its products in front of major aerospace manufacturers, resulting in new sales for the company. My state has produced a return on this investment of $135 to every $1. That kind of success begs repeating. While the spending bill for FY2015 included $17.4 million for this program, the President’s Budget this year again excluded STEP. I think this is an unfortunate oversight and urge this committee to include $25 million for the STEP program in the budget. Creating jobs and opportunity also requires quality, accessible education, to cultivate a new generation of highly skilled workers. That is why I ask you to fully fund post-secondary education programs. The Pell Grant program and the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act help today’s students get the skills they need to become tomorrow’s workers. Pell Grants helped 12,863 students and families in my district last school year, and 806 students used Perkins Loans to gain skills in advanced manufacturing, engineering, and nursing. Many of these students could not otherwise afford college. To succeed in higher education and the workforce, we need to make sure students also get a strong foundation from their K-12 schooling. We have an extra responsibility to assist school districts in Northwest Washington and across the nation when federal activity limits their tax base. For example, Oak Harbor in Northwest Washington serves our military community and relies on federal funding from Impact Aid from both the Department of Education and the Department of Defense to make up for lost tax revenue. The way we prioritize our country’s budget is a powerful statement about our values as a nation. As you craft the budget for the coming year, I ask that you consider the vital role that transportation, trade and education play in my district and in communities across the country. Thank you for your consideration. ###
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced his support for providing defensive lethal aid to Ukraine, in light of the country’s ongoing struggle to defend its eastern territory against Russian aggression. Larsen is cosponsoring H.R. 955, which would authorize the U.S. to provide defensive weapons and assistance to military forces in Ukraine. He will emphasize his support for Ukraine at a House Armed Services Committee hearing today with General Philip Breedlove, Commander of the Supreme Allied Command Europe and the U.S. European Command. “As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am closely following Russia’s ongoing violations of Ukrainian sovereignty. I recently talked with the Ukrainian-American community in my district to get their advice and guidance about the ongoing conflict, and I share their serious concern for the lack of stability in Ukraine resulting from Russia’s military action. I also traveled to Ukraine in December and saw firsthand the challenges the Ukrainian people face in defending their democracy. “When Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko spoke to Congress last fall, he sent an important message to Russia: In Ukraine, you don’t build a democracy – it already exists. You just defend it. The U.S. can and should help Ukraine accomplish this goal. “It is long past time for Russia to respect Ukraine’s territorial integrity, support its unity, and recognize the legitimacy of its government. While I continue to support sanctions and the economic strain they are putting on the Russian government, I also support providing Ukraine with military means to defend itself as another way to pressure Russia to end its aggression,” Larsen said. Larsen also voted in the last Congress for H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act, which indicated U.S. support for Ukraine’s sovereignty while denouncing Russia’s invasion and seizing of Crimea. Washington state’s second Congressional district ranks 16th among all 435 Congressional districts with regard to the number of people of Ukrainian ancestry, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. H.R. 955 authorizes $1 billion in assistance to Ukraine, which includes lethal defensive weapons, as well as training, equipment, logistics and supplies. The bill places a hold on 90 percent of this funding until the Secretary of Defense submits a report on the plan to provide this assistance. ###
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) released draft rules regarding the use of small unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial purposes. “Safety is, and must be, the FAA’s number-one priority. I know it is mine, as the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. These draft rules are an important step toward safely incorporating new technology into our sophisticated and crowded airspace. “We have heard a number of concerns that the FAA moved too slowly on these rules. Given the magnitude of the safety implications, we must give the FAA credit for proceeding with caution. “The UAS industry has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs, including in my district in Washington state, an epicenter of aviation R&D. Had our country shied away from the challenge safely flying aircraft nearly a century ago, we would not have the safe and efficient passenger airline system that we do today. These rules will help keep our country keep its place as the global leader in aviation technology. “I will be reviewing these draft rules for small UAS carefully in the coming weeks to ensure they meet our country’s goals of safe and efficient airspace,” Larsen said. ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON—Critical estuarine habitat in the Pacific Northwest and across the country would receive better protection as a result of a bill introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02. The bill would reauthorize the National Estuary Program through 2020, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. “In the Pacific Northwest, we know that healthy estuaries like the Puget Sound support healthy fish, birds and other wildlife, as well as important economic activity such as trade, fishing, tourism and outdoor recreation. In addition to improving salmon habitat, restoring estuaries can have important carbon sequestration effects, as a report last year about the Snohomish Estuary found. Currently planned and in-progress restoration projects will result in at least 2.55 million tons of CO2 sequestered from the atmosphere over the next 100 years. This is the equivalent of a year’s worth of emissions from half a million automobiles. “I am working to protect Washington state’s environment, which is why I have long supported estuary restoration in the Pacific Northwest. For example, the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in Washington state when it is finished. “I am pleased to work with Rep. LoBiondo on this bipartisan bill that will ensure local organizations across the country can continue their work to protect and restore estuaries to keep these habitats vital today and for future generations,” Larsen said. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, helps build the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. Larsen and LoBiondo introduced the estuary restoration bill during the last Congress. The bill passed the House of Representatives, but was not considered in the Senate. ###
02.12.2015	By Rep. Rick Larsen We in the Pacific Northwest know that our part of the country is second to none. Our mountains and waters offer plentiful outdoor opportunities. Our local economy is fueled by innovative businesses and manufacturers in a variety of industries. And our communities include increasingly diverse perspectives and backgrounds that enrich our way of life. As Congress starts a new session, I want to share with you some of my priorities that will help keep our region strong. My top priority in Congress is to help create jobs and opportunity for people in Northwest Washington. The best way I know how to accomplish these goals is to invest in our roads, bridges, highways, and transit systems. These investments will put people to work immediately, keep goods moving across our state, and improve safety for all of us. As the only Member from Washington state on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will be pushing the interests of the Pacific Northwest as we work to reauthorize a surface transportation bill. You will be hearing a lot from me on these issues because they mean jobs back home. I will be fighting for programs like TIGER grants that enable our small and medium-sized cities to better compete for federal transportation dollars, improving bridge safety here at home and across the nation, improving rail safety, and investing in trails for walkers and bikers. I am also excited to keep my position as Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. Washington has always been at the forefront of the aerospace industry. This year, our Subcommittee will be writing legislation that updates and makes changes to federal aviation programs. I will be working to make sure this bill supports growth and safety in the Puget Sound and across the country. Another way I will be working to create jobs and grow our local economy is by helping businesses sell their goods, not our jobs, overseas. I will continue to champion initiatives that aid small businesses in overcoming hurdles to exporting their goods, and that help them compete for government contracts. Our way of life depends on a healthy environment. That means protecting our waters, our fish and our outdoor recreation opportunities. I led efforts to preserve some of our open spaces during the last Congress, including the historic Green Mountain Lookout near Darrington. Be assured I will continue working to protect Washington state’s environment. You will also hear more from me this year on ways I am fighting to break down barriers that keep people from participating in our economy and our democracy. Congress has a lot of work to do to protect people’s fundamental right to vote and to make sure elections give power to the people, not to money. I will continue to fight voter identification laws that are designed to intimidate and disenfranchise voters. And after the Citizens United Supreme Court decision gave the wealthy an unprecedented level of influence on elections, Congress worsened the problem last month by essentially destroying limits on how much people can give to political parties. I have already supported a bill to roll back these harmful changes. With perseverance and willingness to work across the aisle I know we can get important work done this year to create jobs and opportunity, protect our environment and make sure people can participate in our communities. ###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, expressed disappointment that the President’s budget provided no funding for a successful program to help small businesses sell their goods abroad. Larsen has long championed the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) Program, which is designed to increase the number of small businesses that are exporting, and to increase the value of exports for those small businesses that are currently exporting. “Major trade agreements may be getting the national spotlight, but in the meantime manufacturers in the Pacific Northwest and across the country are working hard every day to expand into to new markets and get their products into the hands of consumers worldwide. These manufacturers are the lifeblood of our economy with the jobs they create, and helping them grow by selling their goods across the globe should be a priority. “For an administration that has highlighted trade as a major agenda item and a key way to grow our country’s economy, I am surprised and disappointed the President’s budget proposal left out a highly effective program that helps our local businesses sell their goods, not our jobs, overseas,” Larsen said. STEP grants have enabled Lynnwood-based Warm Industrial Nonwovens to attend international trade shows and get its products in front of major aerospace manufacturers including Boeing, Airbus, Bombardier and others, resulting in new sales, said company owner Jim Chumbley and sales director Steve Bagwell. “A big part of going to the shows is making connections with the corporate decision makers to then be able to sell to major manufacturers,” they said, adding that Warm Industrial likely would pursue additional assistance from STEP moving forward. In the first two years of the program, STEP helped 446 small businesses in Washington state with export assistance, resulting in a return of $135 to the state’s economy for every $1 spent, according to the state Department of Commerce. STEP businesses in Washington state have made $161 million in actual sales and $221.5 million in forecasted sales, supporting 2,230 jobs statewide. STEP was established as a pilot program in 2010. Larsen introduced a bill in 2013 to make the program permanent, and he successfully requested continuing funding for 2014 and 2015. More information about the STEP Program is available here. ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON—As Republicans today held the 56th vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, underscored again the success of the law in Northwest Washington and called on Republicans to put their energy toward bills that help the middle class by creating jobs and investing in a stronger economy. “Millions of hardworking families across the country have access to affordable health coverage as a result of the Affordable Care Act, yet Republicans are voting for the 56th time to undercut the middle class and take this coverage away. “I have heard from people in Northwest Washington who are grateful that they now have options for their health care coverage. Take Susan from Lopez Island. Because of the Affordable Care Act, Susan and her husband were able to find coverage that afforded them better health care than they had before. “Washington state is a nationwide leader in expanding people’s access to health care, and our state experienced the fourth biggest drop in the nation in our uninsured rate last year. Thousands of people in the Second District can more easily access preventive care like wellness visits and cancer screenings, including about 102,000 seniors on Medicare. And people in our region, including up to 36,000 children, no longer have to worry about getting denied coverage because of preexisting medical conditions. “Republicans’ 56th vote today to repeal the Affordable Care Act is at best a political stunt. But at worst, it stops progress for the middle class by wasting time and money, and by failing to create jobs and opportunity – just like the 12th and 37th and 49th and dozens of other votes to undermine this law that is working. “I am working to make progress for the middle class by reinvesting in our country’s roads, bridges, highways and transit systems and breaking down barriers so people can participate in our economy and our democracy. I hope Republicans will stop blocking progress and start working to help families, communities, and our economy,” Larsen said. ###
01.30.2015	WASHINGTON – The World Champion Seattle Seahawks are back for Super Bowl XLIX and are ready to repeat as reigning Super Bowl champs! In the spirit of the biggest sports event of the year, the Washington House delegation decided to extend a friendly wager to the Massachusetts House delegation. With Seattle’s victory, the Massachusetts House delegation will provide an array of regional treats to Washington members. “On Super Bowl Sunday, the Seattle Seahawks will strut into the University of Phoenix Stadium and deflate Tom Brady’s ego. We look forward to watching Russell Wilson and his team take down the New Englanders just like he did the last time the Seahawks played the Patriots. In this East Coast versus West Coast matchup, we know our defense will carry the Hawks to victory, and we’re excited to welcome them back to Washington D.C. for a repeat visit to the White House,” said the Washington delegation. In the off chance the Seahawks don’t walk away triumphant, the Washington delegation has placed local products on the line. “With a three-time Super Bowl Champion and two-time MVP under center, there is a reason why the majority of Americans believe the Patriots will win this Sunday. Throughout the season and especially in the post season, we have seen the creative genius of Bill Belichik and Josh McDaniels utterly confuse and frustrate some of the league’s best defenses. However we believe the Seahawks will have even more trouble overcoming our league best secondary. Above all, we’re very excited to see the Patriots meet President Obama for the first time,” said the Massachusetts delegation. The products wagered by the Washington House delegation include: Rep. Suzan DelBene (01-Wash.): Chateau St. Michelle wine Rep. Rick Larsen (02-Wash.): Useless Bay Coffee Company coffee Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (03-Wash.): Candy from Chehalis Mints Rep. Dan Newhouse (04-Wash.): Tieton American craft cider and Chukar chocolate-covered cherries Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (05-Wash.): WSU Cougar Gold Cheese and Walla Walla wine Rep. Derek Kilmer (06-Wash.): Northern Fish smoked salmon and Brown and Haley almond roca Rep. Jim McDermott (07-Wash.): Theo Chocolate, Hilliard’s beer and Pike Place salmon Rep. Dave Reichert (08-Wash.): Boehm's Chocolate, Blueberry Hill Farm's blueberry pies, and Washington apples Rep. Adam Smith (09-Wash.): Oberto beef jerky and POP! Gourmet Popcorn Rep. Denny Heck (10-Wash.): Blue Max Meats Beast Mode sausage and Deillano coffee Delegation: Skittles The Massachusetts House delegation has offered: Congressman Richard Neal (01-Mass.): One bottle each of Berkshire Mountain Distillers Whiskey and Gin Congressman Jim McGovern (02-Mass.): Wormtown beer Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (03-Mass.): Cedar’s hummus and pita chips Congressman Joe Kennedy III (04-Mass.): Kuppels bagels Congresswoman Katherine Clark (05-Mass.): NECCO candy Congressman Seth Moulton (06-Mass.): Marshmallow Fluff Congressman Michael Capuano (07-Mass.): Sam Adams beer Congressman Stephen Lynch (08-Mass.): Harpoon beer Congressman Bill Keating (09-Mass.): Craisins ###
01.23.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced his three principal nominees to the military service academies. The nominees, from Coupeville, Marysville and Oak Harbor, will be granted spots in the academies in this coming fall pending successful completion of their final year of high school. Larsen also will make 24 other nominations to the academies. “Each year I have the privilege of nominating exemplary young people from our community to attend a service academy, and each year I am impressed with the breadth of academic and personal achievement of our students. I commend these bright young students for choosing to apply their talents at military academies and pledging service to our country,” Larsen said. Zachary W. Johnson of Coupeville will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Naval Academy. Johnson is a member of the National Honor Society and the honor roll at Oak Harbor High School. He is the battalion commander for the school’s Navy Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps (NJROTC) and serves as a member of the Civil Air Patrol. Johnson also practices karate and competed in the USA Junior Olympics in 2008. Nicholas R.M. Alonso of Marysville will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Military Academy. Alonso is senior class president at Marysville-Pilchuck High School and a member of the National Honor Society. He serves as the battalion commander of the school’s NJROTC unit and as a captain of the football team. Marisa S. Sligh of Oak Harbor will be Larsen’s principal nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Sligh is a member of the National Honor Society and is an active part of the Oak Harbor High School community as a participant in varsity sports, the wind ensemble and several clubs. She is also an active volunteer with Habitat for Humanity, a local retirement center and as a middle school volleyball coach. For more information about service academy nominations, visit Larsen’s website: https://larsen.house.gov/helping-you/military-academy-nominations. ###
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee Rick Larsen (D-WA), and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation John Garamendi (D-CA), applauded efforts by the Obama Administration to coordinate a government wide approach to addressing U.S. interests in the Arctic. The Representatives offered the following statements in support: “I want to commend the President for taking this important action. Finally, the U.S. will have a specific entity to coordinate a government wide approach to addressing the Nation's unfolding geopolitical, economic, environmental and national security interests in the Arctic. This EO will also strengthen the posture of the U.S. Special Representative to the Arctic and increase U.S. leverage within the Arctic Council when the US assumes the two-year chairmanship in March. I hope this means the President plans to include an Arctic budget initiative in his FY 2016 budget request,” DeFazio said. “The GAO has told me that better coordination between federal stakeholders is imperative to make the United States’ Arctic policy work. I am glad the administration is listening. I would like to see this new Arctic Executive Steering Committee help streamline the important work that needs to get done across many sectors, from the environment to national security, as we prepare to take over Chairmanship of the Arctic Council in a few months. I believe Admiral Papp is the right man for the job as our Special Representative to the Arctic, and I hope he will also head this new committee. I will continue to push the administration to focus on this developing area,” said Larsen, who is also a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a co-chair of the Congressional Arctic Working Group. "With climate change drastically altering the Arctic, the United States must prepare for the future. We need a coordinated government response to the inevitable ecological, economic, political, and security consequences of an opened Arctic, and for this reason, the President's action is a positive step forward," Garamendi said. ###
01.22.2015	Larsen also cosponsors two other bills to reform campaign finance laws WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today supported a Constitutional Amendment that would overturn the Supreme Court’s Citizens United and McCutcheon campaign finance decisions. Larsen is a cosponsor of H.J.Res. 22, the Democracy for All Amendment. “The success of our democracy depends on people’s participation at the ballot box, not the size of their bank accounts. The Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision opened the door to unforeseen levels of corporate campaign spending in the form of Super PACs. The McCutcheon decision further debilitated our democratic election process by equating money with free speech, wrongly empowering bank accounts over the ballot box. Never before have the wealthy had such an outsized influence on elections. “This amendment gives Congress and states the power to determine reasonable limits on campaign spending, to distinguish between people and corporations, and it helps restore transparency to our elections. I look forward to a robust debate on this needed amendment to make sure elected officials represent all people and their interests, not just the wealthy,” Larsen said. Larsen supported a similar amendment in the previous Congress and has long advocated for limiting money in politics. He voted against a federal spending bill late last year because it greatly increased campaign donation limits, and he has cosponsored a bill to undo these harmful changes. He also has spoken against the Supreme Court’s recent decisions that have granted too much ‘personhood’ to corporations. Two other bills to reform campaign finance laws that have Larsen’s support include: The DISCLOSE Act would improve election transparency by increasing disclosure requirements for corporations and outside groups who spend money on political campaigns. Larsen cosponsored the Act when it was first introduced in 2010. That year the bill passed the House but failed in the Senate. The Government By the People Act would fight against the influence of wealthy campaign donors by creating ways for small campaign donations to make a bigger impact, through a campaign contribution tax credit and a small-donor matching fund. “I have long said that elections should give power to the people, not to money. All of these bills would help restore true democracy to our elections. I will continue to be a strong voice to reform our campaign finance system to make sure people in Northwest Washington and across the country can participate in elections that are fair,” Larsen said. ###
01.21.2015	Position will give Larsen more oversight over railways WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will take a position on the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Larsen requested this new Subcommittee assignment in response to growing concerns in Northwest Washington about rail safety and traffic impacts. “People in Northwest Washington have shared with me their concerns over the last year about the increase in trains carrying crude oil on rail lines near their communities. These concerns about safety and traffic congestion make complete sense, and I share them too. That is why I chose to become a member of the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Serving on this Subcommittee will allow me more oversight of our country’s rail lines and will better position me to help strengthen the rail infrastructure in the Pacific Northwest. “I spent the last year working with everyone I could—from local, state and federal officials to industry experts and first responders to hearing from community members—to learn and to push for higher safety standards. I was able to connect first responders from our area with free trainings sponsored by the rail industry to help them understand how to handle a potential incident. And I pushed the U.S. Department of Transportation to improve the standards for tank cars carrying crude oil. Final rules should be out soon. Know that I will scrutinize them closely, and I am prepared to work with my colleagues on legislation if the rules are not strong enough. “There is more work to do to make sure our communities are as safe as possible and that our transportation infrastructure enables traffic on both roadways and railways to move safely and efficiently. I am better positioned to get this work done for the people of the Pacific Northwest in my new role on the Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee,” Larsen said. The Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), which is in charge of writing rules to safely transport hazardous materials like crude oil, the Federal Railroad Administration, which governs railroad operations, and the Surface Transportation Board (STB), which governs disputes between shippers and rail companies. ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will remain the top House Democrat on aviation issues after a vote today by his colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Larsen will keep his position as the Ranking Member on the Aviation Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation including safety, infrastructure, labor, commerce and international issues, and oversees the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “The Pacific Northwest is the aerospace capital of the world, and I am looking forward to continuing to make sure our country invests in a safe and strong aviation system for today and into the future. “The aviation industry generates jobs and economic activity in Northwest Washington and across the country that cannot be overstated. Airplanes that thousands of workers build in Puget Sound carry passengers all over the world. These planes also carry goods overseas, from apples and cherries to energy technology, helping our businesses grow into new markets and create jobs here at home. “The Aviation Subcommittee will be writing legislation this year to update and make changes to our federal aviation programs, and the bill will need to address several challenging issues. Just today, the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee held a hearing about how the FAA reviews and approves aviation products and processes. As part of the aviation bill, Congress needs to encourage the FAA to improve its certification processes, while maintaining the highest level of safety. “The FAA is making progress toward opening parts of the airspace for unmanned aircraft systems, and the Subcommittee needs to keep these efforts moving forward with safety as the top priority. We also must maintain focus on the timely implementation of NextGen air traffic management to facilitate safer, more efficient air travel. “I will be working to make sure the aviation bill supports growth and safety in the Puget Sound and across the country. “The Aviation Subcommittee addressed important issues facing the industry in the last Congress under the leadership of Chairman Frank LoBiondo. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. LoBiondo to strengthen the safety and growth of our country’s aviation system,” Larsen said. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. “Momentum is on the side of our economy. The unemployment rate is steadily dropping, more people have access to health care coverage, and families have more money in their pockets because of falling gas prices. The President made the case tonight that we must hold on to all of this progress for the middle class. “But even with all of this good news, I know—and the President knows—there are still people who are struggling. We need to continue fighting for an economy that works for everyone so people have the opportunity to get a good education, to find good jobs, and to participate in their communities. “The President mentioned the importance of a strong transportation infrastructure to create jobs and make sure businesses can get their products to market. Building up our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems is the best way I know to create jobs and a strong economic foundation for our region and our country. These investments will put people to work immediately, keep goods moving across our state, and improve safety for all of us. I am already working on a transportation agenda that will support economic growth in the Pacific Northwest. “The President laid out his vision tonight for a stronger middle class. Congress must answer that plan with action. I am ready to get to work,” Larsen said. ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted against measures today that would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which protects DREAMers—young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and have lived by the law while here—from deportation. House Republicans voted to include these harmful measures in a funding bill for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 236-191. “Republicans have once again slammed the door of the American Dream in the faces of thousands of young immigrants who came to our country as children and are successfully pursuing their futures here. The measures that Republicans passed today shun young immigrants and their families, and derail the lives they are trying to build. “I have long supported helping DREAMers succeed in our country. Young people who are pursuing higher education or military service are contributing to our economy and our society and should be allowed to stay. I will continue to fight to protect these young immigrants and the talents and ideas they bring to their communities,” Larsen said. More information about Larsen’s longtime support for DREAMers, comprehensive immigration reform, and President Obama’s executive actions is available at www.larsen.house.gov. ###
01.13.2015	Last year, Murray, Cantwell, Larsen, DelBene helped secure a similar grant for Darrington School District after SR 530 mudslide WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) sent a letter of support to U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan for a federal grant to help offset costs the district incurred after the school shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School in October. The Project SERV grant would help reimburse the school district for transportation expenditures, as extra funds were needed to ensure students were able to get to school, as well as costs for substitute teachers, who stood in for classroom staff who were unable to immediately return to work following the tragedy. “We are proud of the strength and resilience the Marysville community has shown by celebrating these young people and giving thanks for their lives, though they were cut terribly short. Over the coming weeks and months, the Marysville community will need a great deal of support as they restore stability to the campus, rebuild a supportive learning environment, and heal the emotional damage brought about by this traumatic event,” the members of the delegation wrote in the letter. Project SERV (School Emergency Response to Violence) grants, issued through the Department of Education, provide funding for short and long-term education-related services for school districts and institutions of higher education to help these educational institutions recover from violent or traumatic events. Last year, Senators Murray and Cantwell and Reps. Larsen and DelBene helped secure a Project SERV grant for the Darrington School District after the State Route 530 mudslide. Full text of the delegation’s letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan below: Dear Secretary Duncan, As you know, on October 24, 2014, Washington state suffered a terrible tragedy, when a shooting in the Marsyville-Pilchuck High School cafeteria took the lives of five students, including the shooter. While the rapid and courageous efforts from individuals inside the school prevented further loss of life, this violent act has deeply shaken the high school and the community. As you well know, the wounds inflicted by this tragedy extend beyond the physical injuries sustained in Marysville-Pilchuck High School. We are proud of the strength and resilience the Marysville community has shown by celebrating these young people and giving thanks for their lives, though they were cut terribly short. Over the coming weeks and months, the Marysville community will need a great deal of support as they restore stability to the campus, rebuild a supportive learning environment, and heal the emotional damage brought about by this traumatic event. In response to this violence, we would like to offer our strong support for the Project SERV grant application submitted by Marysville-Pilchuck High School. We believe this flexible funding stream will offer vital assistance to the school in the aftermath of the October 24th shooting. The Washington state delegation appreciates the support the Department of Education has provided for schools in our state and nation which have experienced similar trauma, and thanks the Department as it works quickly to support Marysville-Pilchuck High School’s recovery. ###
01.13.2015	TIGER CUBS bill part of Larsen’s broader transportation agenda WASHINGTON—Job-creating transportation dollars will be allocated more fairly to small- and medium-sized cities because of a bill introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery for Cities Underfunded Because of Size (TIGER CUBS) Act of 2015 would set aside 20 percent of special transportation infrastructure funding specifically for smaller cities. “Investing in our roads, bridges and highways in cities of all sizes is one of the best ways to create jobs and keep our economy moving. TIGER grants have proven a successful way to get job-creating transportation dollars out to cities with ready projects. But smaller cities often lose out on this opportunity because they do not have the same resources to compete with big cities like Chicago and New York for these grants. TIGER CUBS is designed to help medium-sized cities land the big-time funds they need to repair and build up their roads,” Larsen said. The reintroduction of TIGER CUBS, which Larsen first introduced in 2013, comes as Congress works on reauthorization of a surface transportation bill, which is set to expire in May 2015. Larsen will work to include TIGER CUBS in that legislation. Congress established the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant program in 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. About a quarter of TIGER funding has been set aside for rural communities, with the bulk of the remainder going to large cities and statewide projects. Larsen’s TIGER CUBS Act would reauthorize the TIGER program and set aside 20 percent of the funding for cities with populations between 10,000 and 50,000 people. Cities from across Northwest Washington support Larsen’s legislation, including Mountlake Terrace. “The City of Mountlake Terrace supports efforts to provide more funding support to smaller and medium sized cities," said Mayor Jerry Smith. "Congressman Larsen understands the limits that local municipalities have when it comes to making the critical transportation and economic development investments that we all support. We applaud Congressman Larsen for his legislation that would provide a distinct competitive program for cities like ours. I urge Congress to prioritize this bill and create new funding opportunities for small and medium sized cities." Economic Alliance Snohomish County (EASC) also supports Larsen’s TIGER CUBS bill. “The Snohomish County region has an estimated $11 billion in transportation funding needs, including a prioritized list of 23 projects totaling $1.055 billion that have been shown to provide the best economic return-on-investment for the region and Washington State. Many of these needs could be met by the TIGER CUBS Act and would assist nine cities in Snohomish County that would be eligible for the grant program,” EASC President and CEO Troy McClelland wrote in a letter of support. “Vital transportation investments in this region provided by TIGER CUBS grants make sense not only for the state, but for the U.S. economy as a whole.” Larsen’s TIGER CUBS bill is part of his larger transportation agenda for the coming year. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. Every $1 billion we invest in projects to improve our highways and roads creates more than 13,000 jobs in our communities. That is why I will continue leading efforts this year to strengthen our region’s transportation network. “As a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will be pushing hard for sustainable ways to fund our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems, as well as strong investments in our ferries. And I am working to make sure trails are included in federal transportation funding opportunities, because walkers and bikers should be part of the transportation conversation. “I will also continuing pushing forward with aviation issues this year. The Pacific Northwest is the aerospace capital of the world, and I will be keeping my position as Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee to support the growth and safety of air travel that will bring jobs to our communities,” Larsen said. More information about TIGER CUBS: The text of the TIGER CUBS Act is available here. To learn more about the TIGER program, visit www.dot.gov/tiger. The following cities in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties would be eligible for the CUBS set-aside. Island County Oak Harbor Skagit County Anacortes Mount Vernon Sedro-Woolley Snohomish County Arlington Bothell Edmonds Lake Stevens Lynnwood Mill Creek Monroe Mountlake Terrace Mukilteo Whatcom County Ferndale Lynden ###
01.12.2015	By Rep. Rick Larsen As a supporter of Dodd-Frank and someone who was here when Congress wrote it and stood with my communities that suffered as a result of the excess of the financial industry that led to the recession, I can bring a perspective to last week’s vote on HR 37 that others can’t. First, the bill is a collection of 11 separate bills, five of which the House passed overwhelmingly during the 113th Congress. The other six bills cleared their committee votes by large and sometimes unanimous margins. Here is a list with vote totals. I will add here that these bills received next to zero criticism from either party during the last Congress, except for HR 4571, which addressed investor disclosures and is separate from the Dodd-Frank Act. · HR 634; passed the House 411-12 · HR 677; passed committee 50-10 · HR 801; passed the House 417-4 · HR 2274; passed House 422-0 · HR 742; passed House 420-2 · HR 3623; passed committee 56-0 · HR 4164; passed committee 51-5 · HR 4200; passed committee 56-0 · HR 4569; passed committee 59-0 · HR 4571; passed committee 36-23 · HR 4167; passed House by voice vote Last year, when the House voted on these bills as a package, 101 Democrats voted against it (I was not one of them). The reason for this opposition is not clear to me when Democrats previously had supported all of the bills except for one. Second, the last bill on the list above addresses the particular provision from last week’s vote that I think people are upset about. HR 4167 passed by voice vote (essentially unanimous passage), and it gave banks until 2017—basically Congressional blessing of the extended timeline for compliance allowed under the Dodd-Frank Act—to get rid of their collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), financial instruments that pool business loans into securities that are then sold to investors. The vote last week that caused controversy extended this deadline to 2019 for good policy reasons, which I’ll explain. The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in 2010, directed financial regulators to write rules about investments that banks could no longer make or hold, and risky trading activities that would no longer be allowed. The Act did not specifically address CLOs. The five financial regulators responsible for Dodd-Frank issued draft rules in 2011 that also did not address CLOs. After the comment period, they issued a final rule in late 2013 that did include CLOs, and they announced the first of three one-year delays to comply. This timeline brings us to last Wednesday’s vote, which as I explained above adds two more years to the three the regulators said they intend to give for banks to comply with CLO rules. The anger over this vote seems to have three potential sources: 1. Politics. Bills that passed the House or the committee in the 113th Congress with little to no opposition are now garnering more attention than they did last year when they received nearly no attention; or 2. Mischaracterization. Congress “gutted” a provision in Dodd-Frank, when changing a timeline hardly counts as “gutting;” or 3. Critics want no adjustment to Dodd-Frank. The addition of two years to let banks comply with CLO requirements, on top of the three the regulators said they would grant, hardly seems worth the heat being generated. Having said all of that, people’s anger at the financial industry is understandable and justified. I share it. I want to see Dodd-Frank implemented well so it has the best chance to succeed in stopping the financial industry from dragging us into another recession. No one likes that these financial instruments are so complex, me included. But it takes time for banks to get them off of their balance sheets. Dumping a bunch of securities into the marketplace could create exactly the kind of instability that Dodd-Frank aims to prevent. I grant that critics of the vote may have the bumper sticker slogan on their side. However, given what I know and understand about how the rules were written and the actions Congress has taken over the last several years, I would hardly put this vote under the category of “gutting.” When Republicans really start gutting Dodd-Frank, I hope to see at least this much attention paid to it. As appeared in The Stand on January 12, 2015
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his efforts today to reform campaign finance laws by cosponsoring a bill that would roll back harmful provisions passed last month as part of the federal government spending bill. The provisions greatly increased campaign donation limits to allow individual donors to give more than $1.5 million to a political party each two-year election cycle. “The success of our democracy depends on people’s participation at the ballot box, not the size of their bank accounts. I voted against the spending bill last month because it gave the wealthy an even more outsized influence over our elections. Congress should have passed a clean spending bill without harmful provisions like this one. But today I am pleased to sponsor a bill that moves us in the right direction, to make sure elections give power to the people, not to money,” Larsen said. Larsen has vocally opposed actions that let more money into elections. Last year he supported a Constitutional Amendment that would have overturned the Supreme Court’s Citizens United and McCutcheon campaign finance decision, which opened the door to unprecedented levels of corporate campaign spending, and he will support such an amendment again once it is introduced in the new session of Congress. The new reform bill, the Closing the Floodgates Act, was introduced by Rep. Derek Kilmer, WA-06. The Act restores the political party donation limit to $97,200 per year. ###
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for finalizing a key rule to improve safety. The rule about Safety Management Systems is designed to encourage improved safety cultures for aviation operators. “As Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, safety is my top priority. That is why I am pleased that FAA took another step today in implementing the 2010 airline safety bill Congress enacted following the tragic Colgan Air Flight 3407 crash. These rules will help ensure that our airspace remains the world’s safest. “While this movement forward is welcome, we cannot forget the tragic lessons learned from the loss of Colgan Air 3407. I will continue to push the FAA to finalize the safety requirements Congress mandated after the Colgan crash, and I will push back on any efforts to weaken those requirements,” Larsen said. ###
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, was sworn in today for his eighth term in the U.S. House of Representatives, and he underscored his commitment to efforts that create jobs and opportunity for the people of Northwest Washington. “Creating jobs and investing in long-term economic growth in Northwest Washington remain my top priorities for the 114th Congress. The best way to achieve these goals is to invest in our roads, bridges, highways and ferries. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. “As a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will be working hard to address several pressing transportation issues, including sustainable ways to fund our roads, bridges, highways and transit. And since about 40 percent of jobs in Washington state are tied to trade, I also will continue to champion initiatives that help businesses export their products, not their jobs, overseas. “In the Pacific Northwest, we know protecting our environment is essential to our way of life. I was pleased to lead efforts to preserve some of our open spaces during the last Congress, including Illabot Creek and the historic Green Mountain Lookout. My commitment to our lands, waters and wildlife will stay steadfast, and I will continue working to protect Washington state’s environment. “The success of our economy and our democracy depend on all Americans’ participation. Congress has a lot of work to do to break down barriers to protect people’s fundamental right to vote, reform our country’s broken immigration system, and make sure elections give power to the people, not to money. Making progress on these priorities will not be easy, but I will continue working to move them forward for people in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. “Congress is not winning any popularity contests lately with the partisan gridlock that has stalled progress on many important issues. But my commitment to producing results for my constituents remains strong. Just as I have worked in a bipartisan way to help businesses grow to new markets, ensure funding for ferries, and push for stronger safety standards for trains carrying crude oil, I will continue working across the aisle to make changes that responsibly invest in our people and in our future,” Larsen said. Larsen will focus on job-creating transportation and other projects that are growing the local economy during his time in the Second Congressional District next week. ###
12.19.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cheered President Obama’s signature to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. Illabot Creek is a critical habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, as well as a popular recreational destination for fishers and hunters. “The Pacific Northwest is one of the most beautiful parts of the country in large part because of waterways like Illabot Creek and the diverse wildlife that call it home. That is why I have worked so hard to protect this vital habitat where both residents and visitors can enjoy fishing, hunting, hiking and other outdoor activities. It took three separate tries over six years, but with perseverance and many dedicated local partners, Illabot Creek will remain wild and scenic for generations to come. “When we preserve open spaces like Illabot Creek, we protect salmon spawning waters that support healthy fish populations and a vibrant fishing industry that creates thousands of jobs. We protect the clean and free-flowing waters that feed the Skagit River. And we protect the outdoor recreation opportunities for today and in the future that are so integral to our way of life in Northwest Washington. “Healthy waters, lands and wildlife are essential to a high quality of life and a strong economy, which is why I will continue working hard to protect Washington state’s environment. Victories may not always come quickly, but persistence won the day for our environment,” Larsen said. Larsen first introduced the bill in 2009 with Senator Patty Murray. It passed the House in 2012, but did not clear the Senate. Larsen then worked with Rep. Susan DelBene, Sen. Murray and Sen. Maria Cantwell to reintroduce the bill in 2013. Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. The creek is home to one of the largest bull trout populations in Puget Sound, as well as Chinook, Chum, Coho, Pink, Sockeye, Steelhead trout and Cutthroat trout. Bald eagles and many other species of birds also live in the habitat surrounding the creek. The Illabot Creek provision was included in the National Defense Authorization Act, which the President signed today. ###
12.19.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today thanked the sailors of the USS Rodney M. Davis for their service and applauded the ship’s accomplishments as it returns from its final deployment. During its last six months at sea, the ship worked with partners in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region to conduct security operations. The ship also participated in Rim of the Pacific 2014, the world’s largest maritime exercises. It is home ported in Everett and is scheduled to be decommissioned in March 2015. “The sailors of the USS Rodney M. Davis have dedicated themselves over the last nearly three decades to serving our country on deployments around the world. I applaud the ship and the many officers and enlisted sailors who have represented our country so admirably. “Naval Station Everett plays a crucial role in keeping our country safe and protecting our interests worldwide. The USS Rodney M. Davis has carried out this role with distinction,” Larsen said. The USS Rodney M. Davis is the final of three frigates at Naval Station Everett to be decommissioned. These ships are scheduled to be replaced with three destroyers over the next two years. Larsen has long pushed to ensure the Navy maintains a strong presence in Everett, and he worked to bring the three destroyers to the base. ###
12.19.2014	WASHINGTON—A program to help small businesses sell their goods abroad that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has long championed received $17.4 million for FY2015, more than double its previous funding. The State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) Program is designed to increase the number of small businesses that are exporting, and to increase the value of exports for those small businesses that are currently exporting. STEP was established as a pilot program in 2010. Larsen introduced a bill in 2013 to make the program permanent, and he successfully requested continuing funding for 2014 and 2015. “When we help our businesses sell their goods overseas, we create jobs here at home. We know this well in Washington state, where 40 percent of our jobs are tied to trade. “The STEP program has proven a highly successful tool for small businesses. Every dollar we spend in our state through the STEP program brings back $75 to our economy. That kind of success is a solid investment that is producing clear results for our businesses and our communities. I am pleased STEP will continue helping us send the things we make, instead of our jobs, overseas,” Larsen said. Funding for STEP was included in the FY2015 appropriations bill that President Obama signed on December 16. Larsen voted against the bill because of several harmful policy provisions. “A bill to fund the government should be just that – a bill to fund the government. Instead, the spending bill further guts our campaign finance laws by giving the wealthy a loudspeaker in our elections. It cuts into the number one source of federal grant money to help low- and middle-income students afford a college education to help them get the skills they need to succeed in today’s job market. And it devastates the pensions of a million hardworking Americans, a hypocritical action in a country that is supposed to stand up for the middle class. “While I strongly disagree with some of the bad decisions made in this bill, within its 1,600 pages is funding for programs like STEP that will continue to create jobs by helping our small businesses grow,” Larsen said. More information about the STEP Program is available here. ###
12.18.2014	WASHINGTON—In response to the troubling increase in pedestrian and cyclist fatalities in recent years, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Peter DeFazio, OR-04, and Eleanor Holmes Norton, DC, are asking the Government Accountability Office to investigate trends and causes of accidents involving pedestrians and bicycles and to make recommendations about improving safety. “The safety of everyone on the road should be our top priority. Thanks to coordinated efforts, motor vehicle accident deaths are declining. But the same is not true for the most vulnerable people on our roadways – pedestrians and bicyclists. The GAO can give us a better idea of the reasons behind why pedestrian and cyclist fatalities are going up. We want to know what more Congress can do to ensure the highest level of safety for all of those using our roads,” said Larsen, DeFazio and Norton. Text of the letter follows. The Honorable Gene L Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: While overall traffic-related fatalities have been declining in recent years, our most vulnerable road users—pedestrians and cyclists—have experienced an increase in fatalities. In 2012, 4,743 pedestrians were killed, or an average of one fatality every two hours. Also in 2012, 726 cyclists were killed on our roads. These pedestrian and cyclist fatality totals each represent a 6 percent increase from 2011. Furthermore, we are concerned that conventional engineering practices have encouraged engineers to design roads at 5-15 miles per hour faster than the posted speed for the street. This typically means roads are designed and built with wider, straighter lanes and have fewer objects near the edges, more turn lanes, and wider turning radii at intersections. While these practices improve driving safety, a suspected unintended consequence is that drivers travel faster when they feel safer. Greater speeds can increase the frequency and severity of crashes with pedestrians and cyclists who are moving at much slower speeds and have much less protection than a motorized vehicle affords. Because of these increasing fatality numbers among the most vulnerable road users, we request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigate the trends and causes of these roadway fatalities and the challenges associated with improving pedestrian and cyclist safety. In particular, we are interested in information about the relationship between vehicle speed and roadway fatalities, and how roadway design speeds and other common practices may exacerbate this problem. Accordingly, we would like for GAO to examine: • The trends in pedestrian and cyclist accidents (including causes of such accidents), fatalities, and injuries in the last decade. • Challenges that states face in improving pedestrian and cyclist safety (including roadway design speeds and FHWA guidelines for road design), and the initiatives states have undertaken to address this issue. We are particularly interested in the effects of the common road engineering standard that sets speed limits at the rate 85% of drivers would use under regular conditions. • The extent that federal initiatives and funds been made available to assist states in improving pedestrian and cyclist safety, and additional federal actions that may be needed. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress ###
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today praising President Obama’s decision to begin normalizing U.S. relations with Cuba. “Isolating the Cuban people for the last 50 years has accomplished little in the way of building democracy, and I support President Obama’s decision to open the door to a new relationship with Cuba. “Continuing an ineffective policy is no way to govern. By engaging with Cuba we can promote stronger human rights such as the freedom of expression, while also working to hold the Castro government accountable,” Larsen said. Larsen talked with KOMO Newsradio's John Carlson about the changing U.S.-Cuba relations. You can listen to the interview here. ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, tonight voted against a government spending bill that gives the wealthy an even louder voice in elections, hurts college affordability for low- and middle-income students and destroys the pensions of more than a million hardworking Americans. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the bill by a vote of 219-206. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. “Keeping the government running for the people of our country is clearly a critical priority, but we can do that with a clean spending bill that does not hurt students, retirees and the integrity of our elections. One of my top priorities is to break down barriers so all people can participate in our economy and our democracy, and it is with that goal in mind that I voted against this bill. It contains several measures that take big steps backwards for the middle class, and this is unacceptable. We must do better by the middle class. “I have long said that elections should give power to the people, not to money. Yet our country’s political process now stands to become even more lopsidedly in favor of the wealthy. Provisions in this bill essentially destroy any limits on how much people can give to political parties. Our democracy depends on people’s vote at the ballot box, not on the size of their bank accounts. I will continue to fight against harmful laws that give the wealthy an outsized influence on elections. “I am also deeply frustrated that the bill cuts into Pell Grants, which enable millions of low- and middle-income students to afford higher education. We need to be telling our students we will invest in them. They are the future engineers, teachers, doctors, and entrepreneurs who will keep our country growing and competitive long into the future. To tell our students instead that an affordable higher education is not a priority is shortsighted and hurts our country’s economic potential. “My vote against this bill is also a vote in favor of protecting the hard-earned pensions of retirees in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. I know some multiemployer pension plans are on rocky ground following the recession, but slashing the pensions of a million hardworking middle-class Americans goes against our values and does not create a sustainable way forward for these funds. “A bill to fund the government should be just that – a bill to fund the government. It should not include other policy decisions like further degrading our country’s campaign finance laws that House members had no opportunity to debate. My vote against this bill is a vote in favor of a plan for our country’s spending that reflects our shared value of opportunity for all,” Larsen said. Details of the provisions that Larsen opposes include: Increases campaign donation limits to allow individual donors to give more than $1 million to political parties each two-year election cycle. A $303 million cut to the Pell Grant program. While the program currently runs a surplus, it is expected to start facing shortfalls in 2017. A measure that allows multiemployer pension plans to cut benefits for current retirees. ###
12.10.2014	Larsen underscores importance of Arctic region at hearing; applauds final passage of Coast Guard reauthorization bill WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today reiterated the significance of the Arctic region to the economy in the Pacific Northwest and the importance of the U.S. upholding its commitments as an Arctic nation. Larsen offered remarks at a subcommittee hearing of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, “The United States as an Arctic Nation: Opportunities in the High North.” “The Arctic might be out of sight, out of mind for many, but it is part of the everyday economy in the Pacific Northwest. Our ports are often the winter home for maintenance and repair on fishing boats and other vessels that operate in the Alaskan Arctic during the warmer months. “As an Arctic nation, we also need to be careful stewards of the unique environment, especially as icepacks melt and open the region for additional shipping and commercial activity. And we need to be sensitive to indigenous people to protect their ways of life. “I started the Congressional Arctic Working Group with Mr. Young from Alaska to help raise awareness about the importance of the Arctic. I appreciate this partnership and the committee’s attention to Arctic issues,” Larsen said. Larsen also applauded final passage of a Coast Guard reauthorization bill that includes several provisions he has championed, including a plan for the U.S. icebreaker fleet and improved Arctic readiness. The bill now heads to the President for signature. “Our country faces a steep opportunity curve when it comes to the Arctic, and Congress is starting to recognize the need to improve U.S. readiness in the region. The U.S. will take over as the chair of the Arctic Council in a few months, and the commitment to the Arctic in the Coast Guard bill is a signal our country is better preparing to engage,” Larsen said. The bill requires the Coast Guard to come to a final decision about reactivating the Polar Sea icebreaker, which is currently mothballed in Seattle. Larsen visited the vessel earlier this year and has led efforts to preserve it. The bill also requires the Coast Guard to improve its ability to track ships in our Arctic waters, and to construct forward operating facilities in the Arctic region. Larsen is a leading voice in Congress to bring more attention to the Arctic and U.S. responsibilities as one of eight Arctic nations. ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON—More than 2,200 Northwest Washington residents joined a telephone town hall hosted by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, on December 9. The focused on immigration reform, veterans issues and rail safety, as well as including more than a dozen questions from participants. “Thanks to the more than 2,200 people who joined me for my telephone town hall. I always appreciate the opportunity to talk with you about the issues that are on your mind, from immigration reform and climate change to trade issues and transportation. We might not always agree, but I always like to know the issues that are important to you,” Larsen said. You can listen to the hour-long telephone town hall here. Summary information: 2,264 people joined the call for an average of 15 minutes each. About 175 people stayed on the call for the whole hour. Larsen took 13 questions on topics including the Gateway Pacific Terminal, immigration reform, military spending, transportation and jobs, climate change, concerns about jet noise from Growlers based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, Social Security, Russia, unions and labor, partisanship in Congress, trade and college affordability. ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee’s hearing, “U.S. Unmanned Aircraft Systems: Integration, Oversight, and Competitiveness.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing on “U.S. Unmanned Aircraft Systems: Integration, Oversight, and Competitiveness.” I appreciate you holding this hearing at my request. Safety is, and must be, the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) number-one priority. It is mine, and I know it is yours, as well. We have looked at unmanned aircraft systems – or UAS – twice earlier this year, but last week’s reports of numerous near-collisions between UAS and manned aircraft are a stark reminder that the FAA must be prepared to ensure UAS operations are safe—both for those in the air and people on the ground. So this hearing is very timely. The UAS industry has great potential to drive economic growth and create jobs, including in my district in Washington state, an epicenter of aviation R&D. However, there is no doubt that there are near-term challenges. For example, the FAA says it receives about 25 reports each month from pilots who have seen unmanned aircraft or model aircraft operating near their aircraft, including some “near collisions.” But we rise to challenges; we do not shrink from them. Consider these headlines with cautionary tales about aviation safety: • Planes Crash in Air; Man Killed[1] • Two Killed When They Crash In Air[2] • Crash in Air Kills Two: Pilots Die When Two Machines Collide in Practice Flight[3] These headlines are from nearly a century ago. I found more than 80 stories of this kind alone, all written before 1921. These reports could have caused the American public to give up on developing things that fly. But we didn’t. Had we given up on commercial air travel then, we would not have the safe and efficient passenger airline system that we do today. While our “near-collision” headlines reflect undeniable challenges that must be addressed, we must keep moving forward to ensure progress and competitiveness. But let me be clear: Integration of UAS must never come at the expense of safety. To help guide this large effort, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 set forth specific requirements and milestones for the FAA to safely integrate UAS into the national airspace system. We have heard a number of concerns from industry that the FAA is not moving quickly enough. The Department of Transportation Inspector General reported in June that FAA had completed work toward nine of the milestones in the Act, but that the Agency was behind schedule on remaining milestones, including the more significant provisions. The bill required the FAA to publish a rule on small UAS by August 14, 2014. We expect that rule soon. The bill also required the FAA to establish six test ranges for UAS research. However, while those test ranges are up and running, we continue to hear from stakeholders that they are not being fully utilized. However, given the magnitude of the safety implications of incorporating this novel technology into our sophisticated and crowded airspace, we must give credit where credit is due. The FAA is proceeding with caution, but is making progress. For example, section 333 of the Act also gave FAA the authority to authorize certain UAS operations on an interim basis in advance of the final rule on small UAS. The FAA has just begun using this authority and has granted several exemptions – including some just this morning. We must ensure that the agency allows prudent testing and operations to begin safely, even if on a limited basis. We have also heard concerns that other countries afford more flexible environments to test and operate UAS. While we must hold safety paramount, we do not want to fall needlessly behind. Privacy is another major concern that must be addressed. I share the public’s concerns about the implications of aerial surveillance from UAS operators, and I will work to ensure that privacy concerns are addressed through the proper channels. Within the past two years, we have seen FAA make real progress on implementing NextGen capabilities with the strong bipartisan oversight of this Subcommittee under the leadership of Chairman LoBiondo. Our work on NextGen shows us the absolute necessity of the FAA’s collaboration with stakeholders—especially pilots and air traffic controllers—who will be directly affected by new technologies. Our goal with regard to UAS integration should be to keep safe integration on track so that we are not here in 2024 talking about a plan to integrate UAS into the airspace. Finally, I would like to ask for unanimous consent to enter written remarks from MITRE into the record. MITRE is engaged in research and development for the FAA, and its input is critical as we look toward reauthorization. I look forward to hearing from all of our panelists about where we are today and what we can do to keep the integration of UAS on track and ensure safety. Thank you. ### [1] Wyoming State Tribune, 1917. [2] Trenton Evening Times, 1917. [3] Oregonian, 1920.
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today praised the U.S. House of Representatives’ vote to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. Illabot Creek is a critical habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, as well as a popular recreational destination for fishers and hunters. “Illabot Creek is a beautiful part of our community and an integral part of Skagit Valley’s environment,” Larsen said. “Preserving this habitat ensures that Skagit County residents and visitors will be able to continue hunting, fishing and hiking in the region. When we support vital salmon spawning waters like this, we protect the fishing industry jobs that depend on healthy fish populations. Moving this bill forward has taken persistence over the years, and I am pleased to work with Rep. DelBene to try to push it across the finish line.” “For years, there has been a broad coalition of stakeholders from our region who have fought tirelessly to protect these important public lands, and I am thrilled that we are about to cross the finish line. The inclusion of the Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic bill means we will ensure the preservation of significant wild lands that are home to several threatened species. In addition to being important to local wildlife habitat, people have come to Illabot Creek for generations to hunt, fish and recreate. This legislation will preserve these opportunities for generations to come,” DelBene said. Larsen first introduced the bill in 2009 with Senator Patty Murray. It passed the House in 2012, but did not clear the Senate. DelBene took the bill up after being elected to represent the new First Congressional District. Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. Other conservation provisions in Washington state include: Expand the Alpine Lakes Wilderness area. Create the Manhattan Project National Historical Park near the Tri-Cities. Open Rattlesnake Mountain summit in the Hanford Reach National Monument to the public. Restore access in the North Cascades National Park to allow repairs to the Stehekin Road. The Illabot Creek provision was included in the National Defense Authorization Act. The bill now moves to the Senate for a vote. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the House of Representatives passed the final version of the annual defense policy bill, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015. The bill includes several provisions that support Navy bases in Northwest Washington, strengthening national security and improving the local economy. One measure in the bill allows the Navy to buy an additional five EA-18G Growlers, aircraft that are critical to the country’s electronic warfare strategy. This brings the total number of Growlers that Congress will purchase from 135 to 140. “Congress’ decision to buy five more Growlers indicates the planes’ importance to our national defense in this age of new technology, and continues to underscore the national commitment to maintaining Naval Air Station Whidbey Island as one of our country’s preeminent Navy bases. “I want to be clear this does not mean NASWI will automatically house five more Growlers. The number of Growlers at NASWI will be determined by the ongoing Environmental Impact Study (EIS), which has provided multiple opportunities for public input,” Larsen said. Currently, there are 82 Growlers actively flying out of NASWI and 12 used as backup in case an active plane is damaged. The EIS will determine the number of planes to be flown out of the base, which could be as high as 118 aircraft. This scenario could happen even if Congress had not funded any new Growlers this year. After the EIS determines the number of active planes at NASWI, the remaining aircraft that Congress has purchased will continue to be split between a Navy base in Japan, testing facilities, and spares at NASWI to replace lost or damaged aircraft, or those undergoing extended maintenance.e lost or damaged aircraft, or those undergoing extended maintenance. The EIS is open for public comment until January 9, and people are encouraged to submit comments here: https://www.whidbeyeis.com/Comment.aspx. The bill now moves onto the Senate for a vote. ###
12.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan final version of the annual defense policy bill, the Carl Levin and Howard P. ‘Buck’ McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015. The bill contains key provisions that continue to invest in vital assets in Northwest Washington, while strengthening U.S. national defense. Larsen is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee. “This bill demonstrates the importance of the Pacific Northwest to national defense by investing in construction, manufacturing, and military bases in our region. Bases on the Pacific Coast are vital to our country’s pivot to the Asia-Pacific region as a focus for security and economic interests. “I am also pleased the bill contains full funding the for KC-46A tanker program, one of the Air Force’s top three priorities. I fought hard to get the tanker program into the hands of the best aerospace workers in the world – the Machinists of Puget Sound, and I fought successfully for full funding. “However, there are many ways this legislation could be improved. It fails to make progress towards closing the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. And it fails to take on the budgetary challenge of sequestration that Congress imposed upon the Pentagon. Congress is unwilling to make cuts to military programs that have outlived their usefulness, and I would like to see us make decisions that reshape national security policy to meet 21st century challenges. “I have also heard from veterans and military families concerned about cuts to their benefits, and I understand their concern. The Pentagon has proposed a number of budget cuts to stick within sequestration limits, but Congress has rejected them. Unfortunately, if Congress continues to fail to address sequestration, the limited cuts in this bill are a harbinger of tougher choices to come. “While the bill is not perfect, it is an important bipartisan compromise that defines our country’s national defense for the coming year,” Larsen said. Some provisions in the bill include: Funds the acquisition of seven KC-46 tankers, which are manufactured at Boeing’s Everett facility. Funds five EA-18G Growler aircraft. Funds the acquisition of eight P-8A Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft. The Navy has decided to base six P-8A squadrons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). Funds construction to provide important improvements at NASWI. Supports an 11 aircraft carrier fleet by funding the midlife refueling and overhaul of the USS George Washington. Provides a 1% pay increase for the men and women of the military, while freezing basic pay for General and Flag officers. Funds efforts to secure nuclear material worldwide, work Larsen has long supported. The bill now moves to the Senate for its consideration. ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Patty Murray, WA, and Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, took action this week to respond to constituents concerned about noise from the EA-18G Growlers at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Murray and Larsen asked the U.S. Navy to consider recommending funding for the construction of a hangar at Ault Field called a hush house, which would muffle noise from on-ground engine testing and maintenance. “Community members from Whidbey Island and the San Juan Islands have shared with me their concerns about the noise from the Growlers at NASWI. Senator Murray and I have listened and are asking the Navy to help out by building a hush house, which would muffle engine noise from testing and maintenance on the ground and direct it away from communities,” Rep. Larsen said. “I have always been clear in my support for NASWI’s role as one of the country’s premier Navy installations, the Growlers being stationed at the base, and the necessary training such as field carrier landing practice to make sure our servicemen and women are prepared. I will also continue working with community members and local leaders to address the impact of noise.” “We’ve heard from families on Whidbey Island and the San Juan Islands that the noise from NASWI is disturbing their communities,” said Senator Murray. “Construction of this facility is a reasonable step to minimize the impact that planes from NASWI have on the surrounding area.” Full text of the letter to the U.S. Navy can be found here. ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill with support from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, that preserves tax credits to help families and the middle class. H.R. 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act, extends for one year a variety of tax breaks that expired at the end of 2013, applying them to the 2014 tax year. Larsen also praised the country’s decreasing deficit and called for continued fiscal responsibility. “Our country’s budget should reflect our shared value of opportunity for all, and it should do so in a balanced and responsible way. I have long called for a sane approach to our country’s fiscal policy, and I am happy to report that we are moving in the right direction. Over the last five years, our country’s deficit has fallen from $1.4 trillion to $483 billion. This means the deficit is down to 2.8 percent of our GDP, so we are getting closer to a world of budget sustainability. “I voted in favor of this bill to support hardworking families who are putting their kids through college and to help low-income families afford housing. I am also pleased the bill extends the state and local tax deduction, which makes the tax code fairer for people in states like Washington that do not have an income tax. And it helps businesses invest in research and development, which are critical to the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in Northwest Washington and across the country. “But this bill is far from perfect. Sane fiscal policy would not be extending handouts to NASCAR and horse racing, as this bill does. These kinds of tax breaks used to be called earmarks. Rather than this piecemeal and last-minute approach to legislating, Congress should work on broad, long-term business tax reform that encourages economic growth and opportunity. “While I am frustrated with Congress’ continued piecemeal approach to legislating, we cannot pin a higher bill on the middle class simply because Congress has yet again waited until the last minute to make decisions. People should have a clear understanding of what their taxes will look like, and I would like to see Congress work on longer-term solutions for the coming years,” Larsen said. The tax agreement includes the following provisions: Extends the state sales tax deduction for 2014, allowing Washington residents to deduct the amount of sales tax they pay on their federal tax return. Provides for a tax credit to help low-income individuals afford housing. Equalizes tax benefits for employer-provided mass transit and parking options. Extends a tax deduction for individuals and businesses who make charitable donations of food items. Allows teachers to deduct certain supply expenses. Extends research and development tax credits for businesses. ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON—Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill to reauthorize the U.S. Coast Guard that contains several provisions Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has championed, including a plan for the U.S. icebreaker fleet and improved Arctic readiness. The Howard Coble Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2014 also reauthorizes the Small Shipyards program, which invests in small shipyards that create jobs in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. Larsen spoke on the floor in favor of the bill today. Watch his floor speech here. “Our country faces a steep opportunity curve when it comes to the Arctic, and I am pleased the Coast Guard reauthorization bill recognizes the need to improve U.S. readiness in the region. As the U.S. prepares to take over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2015, this bill signals that our country is ready to engage further in Arctic issues. “As the Arctic increasingly opens up to more shipping traffic, our icebreaker fleet will become even more important to protect American commerce and our national security. This bill requires the Coast Guard to come to a long overdue decision about reactivating the mothballed Polar Sea icebreaker. And it requires the Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and National Science Foundation to work together to develop a funding strategy for icebreakers they will all use. I am hopeful this whole-of-government approach will improve our country’s icebreaking capacity, which is woefully inadequate, particularly compared with other Arctic nations. “The U.S. needs to participate in building infrastructure in the Arctic to protect the environment and provide safe passage for our vessels. This bill encourages the development of forward operating bases for the Coast Guard in the region, and it improves the ability of the Coast Guard to monitor, patrol, and protect our nation’s Arctic waters. “I am also pleased that this bill includes $10 million for the Small Shipyards Grant Program, a successful effort that provides infrastructure funding to shipyards in the Pacific Northwest and throughout the country. These shipyards create jobs and support our local economies,” Larsen said. Larsen has led efforts to refurbish the Polar Sea icebreaker, and visited the vessel earlier this year. The Small Shipyards Grant Program has previously funded upgrades to shipyards in Bellingham and Everett. Larsen applauded the bipartisan, bicameral Coast Guard reauthorization agreement earlier this week. He also is the co-chair of the Congressional Arctic Working Group, and has been advocating in Congress for investments in Arctic infrastructure.
12.02.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the bipartisan and bicameral agreement to reauthorize the U.S. Coast Guard. The Howard Coble Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2014 advances several of Larsen’s priorities, including clarifying the Coast Guard’s icebreaking role, improving its ability to track ships in U.S. Arctic waters, and reauthorizing the Small Shipyards program. “I am pleased this bill directs the Coast Guard and other federal agencies to clarify how they will move forward to build up our country’s icebreaking capacity. Our icebreaker fleet protects American commerce and our national security, and creates hundreds of jobs in Northwest Washington. As the Arctic increasingly opens up to more shipping traffic, the U.S. needs to participate in building infrastructure in the region to protect the environment and provide safe passage for our vessels. We cannot and should not cede this important region to international competitors. “The women and men of the Coast Guard perform their many missions with dedication and bravery every day. This bill gives them the resources they need to do their jobs. By moving forward on icebreakers, investing in small shipyards in Northwest Washington and increasing our capabilities in the Arctic, this bill sets a strong foundation for the Coast Guard’s continuing work and supports the economy in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. The bill accomplishes a number of goals, including: Requires the Coast Guard to come to a final decision about reactivating the Polar Sea icebreaker, which is currently mothballed in Seattle. Larsen visited the vessel earlier this year and has led efforts to preserve it. Requires the Coast Guard to improve its ability to track ships in our Arctic waters, and to construct forward operating facilities in the Arctic region. Includes $10 million for the Small Shipyards Grant Program, which has previously funded upgrades to shipyards in Bellingham and Everett. Larsen is the co-chair of the Congressional Arctic Working Group and has been advocating in Congress for investments in U.S. Arctic infrastructure. The bill is now expected to come before both the House and the Senate for votes. ###
11.24.2014	Read Rep. Larsen's op ed on the Bellingham Herald website. By Rep. Rick Larsen While riding down a major route in Beijing in January 2013, one sight struck me: the inability to see the tops of the buildings on either side of this street. The height of the buildings was not the problem, terrible smog was. I returned home with a terrible cold exacerbated by the particulate-heavy air I breathed in Beijing and other large cities I visited on that trip to assess China's pollution problem. My assessment: It’s bad. But China should not attack this problem on my account and its leadership won't. It will and should because of the millions of Chinese who breathe this air every day. Dirty air and the many problems it causes for Chinese citizens are reasons that China experts cite pollution as a threat to Chinese Communist Party credibility. That motivating factor is surely behind China's announcement that it will actively engage on an international agreement to reduce the sources of greenhouse gas emissions. China is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the world, which makes its commitment to peaking its greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 or earlier so important. As part of the deal with the U.S., China’s leadership also committed to growing the country’s use of non-fossil fuels by 20 percent in the same time frame. To meet its goals, China must begin to slow its rate of growth in greenhouse gases now. China can only begin this effort by increasing its use of no- and low-emission sources of energy now. This means China needs to be less coal dependent and immediately invest in renewable energy. There are at least two key reasons why China's commitment is so important. First, according to one report in the Washington Post, other countries have cited China's refusal to adopt greenhouse gas reductions as an excuse not to start their own efforts. That excuse is now gone, and I am hopeful this new agreement will set a positive course of action for other countries to follow. Second, the 2015 United Nations climate change conference will take place in Paris in December, and a deal between the United States and China on greenhouse gas reduction by itself increases the likelihood of an international deal. Bringing together dozens of countries to agree on making difficult changes to their energy usage is a steep hill to climb, but it may have become more surmountable with the U.S.-China deal. And the only real way to make meaningful progress toward mitigating the effects of climate change is for countries to work together. So what will this mean for China? China will need heavy investment soon and quickly to achieve this goal. That investment will take the form of renewable and non-fossil fuel sources of energy. According to the Energy Information Administration, hydropower makes up only 6 percent of China’s energy, and all other renewables like wind and solar make up less than 1 percent of total energy production. Nuclear makes up an additional 1 percent. These numbers indicate that almost 90 percent of China's energy portfolio is fossil fuel-based, with coal making up most of that number. This is an untenable energy mix for the Chinese people. And what does this mean for the United States? First, the agreement includes other key elements that provide the United States opportunities to assist China in its efforts. For example, expanding the Joint Clean Energy Research and Development Center sets a foundation for the future of renewable energy research. These joint efforts also will promote trade in green goods like solar panels, small hydroelectric technology and wind turbines. This increased research, development, and green commerce will essentially set a stage for a broader agreement on a trade in environmental goods and services that will create jobs here at home. U.S. companies and the workers who make a living from the jobs at companies manufacturing green technology are ready, willing, and able to provide the services and make the products that grow our economy here at home while helping China achieve its goal of reducing greenhouse gases. This agreement is the next step in what could be the most substantial environmental agreement in U.S. history. Along with the landmark fuel-efficiency standard agreement that decreases fossil fuel use of automobiles in the United States and the announcement that the Obama administration will reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired energy plants, the U.S.-China agreement on greenhouse gas emissions forms a firm third leg in the Obama Administration's legacy to address the threat of climate change and a platform for the world to follow.
11.21.2014	WASHINGTON—President Obama’s executive action to reform the U.S. immigration system takes positive steps to keep families together, better focus law enforcement resources on upholding public safety and national security, and update opportunities for high-skill workers and entrepreneurs, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today in a statement. He also called again for comprehensive immigration reform legislation as the true solution to the complicated immigration issue in the U.S. “President Obama’s decision to refocus our country’s immigration enforcement resources will help keep families together, better direct law enforcement resources to upholding public safety and national security, and update opportunities and processes for high-skill workers and entrepreneurs. But these actions cannot be the end of our country’s conversation about immigration reform. The real solution to the complex issue of immigration must be comprehensive and permanent, like the reform bill I have long supported. “In Northwest Washington, I know there are many young undocumented immigrants who want to pursue their education so they can contribute to our country. I have also talked with members of cultural communities who have shared with me why they brought their families to the U.S. And business owners and workers have given me their views on visa reform. The President’s actions take steps to address these concerns for those in the Pacific Northwest and across the country to expand people’s opportunities and grow our economy. “The centerpiece of the President’s plan defers deportations for parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents who have been in the U.S. for more than five years and expands the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Eligible parents will need to register, pass criminal and national security background checks, and start paying taxes. They can apply for a three-year period of deferred action and will be able to apply for work permits. Ending these families’ constant fears of separation will enable them to more easily participate in our communities and our society. “I am pleased to see the end of the Secure Communities program, which used a dragnet approach to detain people for suspected immigration violations. I asked the administration last summer to reconsider these practices, as courts have ruled that detaining someone without probable cause violates the Constitution. Communities stand to benefit from the new proposal that will focus resources instead on people who have been convicted of serious crimes or may be a threat to national security. I am hopeful this change will improve immigrant communities’ trust in local police and make much better use of the limited resources we have for immigration enforcement. “The President’s plan expands work opportunities for people who have graduated from U.S. universities with degrees in science, technology, engineering and math, increases flexibility for high-skill workers and their spouses whose employers are sponsoring them for permanent residency, and increases the chances for entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and contribute to our economy. “We are a nation of immigrants, and no matter where in the world we got our start, we all are looking for similar things: a good education, a safe place for our families, opportunities to contribute to our communities, and meaningful work. The future of our economy depends on a pro-growth, efficient and fair immigration system. “Even as millions of families now have protection against being separated from their loved ones, now is the time to allow a vote on comprehensive immigration reform to create clear, legal pathways to legal residency for those who wish to come here and contribute to our nation,” Larsen said. ###
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement tonight about President Obama’s executive order to defer deportation for parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents who have been in the U.S. for more than five years and meet certain requirements, and expand the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Larsen also called again for comprehensive immigration reform. He is an original cosponsor of H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Modernization Act. “I understand the President’s decision today to defer deportation for millions of immigrants here illegally who have children who are American citizens or legal residents. Our country’s immigration system should not focus on tearing families apart, but instead on upholding national security and public safety. That is one of many reasons why the real solution to the complex issue of immigration must be comprehensive, like the reform bill I have long supported. “Republicans should channel their outrage about the President’s decision into voting on the bipartisan comprehensive reform bill the Senate already passed. The President has said Congressional action would override his executive order, so there is a clear solution to Republicans’ indignation – let the House vote. “Because of House Republicans’ inaction, I asked the President earlier this year to consider expanding prosecutorial discretion guidelines that account for ties immigrants have here, like close family members in the U.S. who are citizens, legal permanent residents, or DREAMers. I support steps like this within the confines of the law that focus resources on those who pose a threat to public safety, not separating families," Larsen said. ###
11.20.2014	APEC Summit Advanced Agreements Between U.S. and China to Reduce Trade and Travel Barriers Working Group Founded in 2005 by Kirk and Rep. Larsen WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Senator Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Representatives Rick Larsen (D-Wash.-02) and Charles Boustany (R-La.-03), hosted a meeting of the U.S.-China Working Group with U.S. government and private sector representatives to discuss the outcomes of President Obama's visit to the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit (APEC) in Beijing last week. During the visit, President Obama met with China's President Xi Jinping and concluded a series of bilateral agreements regarding tourism, trade, energy, and national security. “The relationship between the United States and China is the most important bilateral relationship of the 21st century,” Senator Kirk said. “The 10-year visa will give cities like Chicago a big boost from additional Chinese business and tourism travelers, which nationally will generate $85 billion to the economy by 2021. The U.S.-China Working Group will continue to work to educate members of Congress on the immense benefits of this relationship.” “This year’s APEC Summit was productive for U.S. engagement in the region,” Senator Hirono said. “Strengthening America’s ties with China, and in particular extending visitor and business travel visas to 10 years, will bring new diplomatic and economic opportunities for our country. For the State of Hawaii, we welcome this opportunity to further build relationships internationally.” “Promoting trade with China is an important avenue to expand the markets into which American companies can compete. Currently, Louisiana is the seventh-most export-heavy state, but we can do even better. By promoting a strong U.S.-Chinese trade relationship, everyone stands to benefit,” Rep. Boustany said. “As the two largest economies in the world, the U.S. and China cannot afford not to engage. The successes that came out of the recent APEC summit about trade, travel visas and the environment mark important progress in the relationship between our two countries. These agreements also are good news for Washington state, because increasing our ability to export local goods grows our local economy and creates jobs,” Rep. Larsen said. On October 31st, Senator Kirk and Reps. Boustany and Larsen wrote a letter to President Obama, asking him to use his leadership to advance agreements with China that would increase tourism and travel to the United States, significantly reduce foreign investment barriers for U.S. companies in China, and make progress on the negotiation of a meaningful Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT), which would remove restrictions for U.S. investment in China and provide enhanced legal protections for U.S. companies. The U.S. and China subsequently concluded agreements to extend validity of short-term business and tourism visas from one year to 10 years; an information technology agreement that commits China to significant tariff reductions in that sector; and a commitment to accelerate BIT talks. Then-Congressman Kirk founded the U.S.-China Working Group with Rep. Larsen in 2005, and then worked with then-Senator Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) to launch the group in the Senate in 2011. The group hosts regular member and staff briefings with academic, business and political leaders to discuss the latest in U.S.-China relations and various security and trade issues. ###
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today the U.S. House of Representatives held a moment of silence to remember the students killed and injured on October 24 in the shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School. Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led the moment of silence and delivered the following remarks. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to address the House for one minute. On October 24, the Marysville, Washington and Tulalip communities were violently ripped apart by a tragic shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School. Four students and their assailant have died, and one student was seriously wounded. As a father of two teenage boys, my heart breaks as I consider the families who were given the worst news imaginable as a result of this horrible event. Healing is a difficult process, especially as we approach the Thanksgiving holiday. Marysville, Tulalip and the surrounding communities have shown their strength and resilience by celebrating these young people and giving thanks for their lives, though they were cut terribly short – the lives of Zoe Galasso, Gia Soriano, Shaylee Chuckulnaskit, Andrew Fryberg, and the shooter, Jaylen Fryberg. Our thoughts are also with Nate Hatch and his family as he continues to recover. I would like to thank our first responders and the Marysville-Pilchuck High School staff and leadership for their quick action that sad day. I want to thank the Tulalip’s leadership for their resiliency, and the faith communities for opening their buildings and their arms to the grieving population. Everyone involved deserves our thanks and our prayers. To our first responders, you put yourselves at risk to keep our children safe. I know I speak for our whole community when I thank you for your service and bravery. I also want to commend the strength of our community leaders during this incredibly difficult time. My colleagues and I continue to send thoughts and prayers to the students, teachers, families and Marysville and Tulalip communities. Mr. Speaker, I ask that the House observe a moment of silence as we remember these young people whose lives ended far too soon. ###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Transportation and Infrastructure’s hearing, “FAA Reauthorization: Issues in Modernizing and Operating the Nation’s Airspace.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman Shuster, for calling today’s hearing on our work ahead to reauthorize federal aviation programs by October 2015. I look forward to working with you, Chairman LoBiondo, and all my colleagues to get a bill done on time—one that improves safety and keeps our aviation system the envy of the world. I would also like to recognize the families of the passengers on Colgan Flight 3407, who are with us today. We welcome you and thank you for your tireless efforts to improve aviation safety. I will be brief because I want to hear from our witnesses. With the current Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) authorization expiring September 30, 2015, it is time to get down to business. I recognize that many aviation stakeholders, including a few testifying here today, are frustrated with the funding uncertainty and the delays associated with NextGen. But let’s be clear: The FAA is making progress—and good progress—thanks to the Aviation Subcommittee’s strong oversight under Chairman LoBiondo’s leadership. This time last year, we were uncertain when we would see a plan for implementing DataComm. Now, in response to a tasking by Chairman LoBiondo and me, the FAA has a plan, with industry support, to implement DataComm. This time last year, we were uncertain about the path forward for performance-based navigation (PBN) procedures. Now, again in response to our tasking, the FAA has a plan—with industry support—for accelerating PBN procedure implementation. And the list goes on. So when I read in some stakeholders’ testimony that the FAA is not moving fast enough on several of these programs, I would point out that we have progressed significantly from last year. And Chairman LoBiondo and I remain laser-focused on making sure the FAA continues to make progress. Moreover, under Chairman LoBiondo’s leadership, the Aviation Subcommittee held three hearings in the last Congress on the FAA’s work to streamline the certification process. We heard the FAA has made progress. We also held two subcommittee meetings on the FAA’s work to integrate unmanned aircraft systems and will stay focused on progress there. But at the same time we recognize that more must be done. The FAA must have funding certainty and the flexibility to invest. When we talk about the FAA’s challenges in running programs smoothly, we need to recognize that the agency’s problem is not simply a management problem. I think the agency has a political problem. Last year’s efforts by some in Congress to force the federal government off of the fiscal cliff were not only a catastrophe for the everyday operation of the airspace. They also caused great harm to NextGen efforts. Just as the FAA must do better, so must we in Congress. And I hope today’s hearing will give us a solid path for how we should progress with a strong bipartisan bill. I know conversations have been going on among stakeholders about air traffic reform. But reauthorization must not be a science experiment. If we resolve to go big in this bill with significant air traffic reforms, we must do so methodically—with a clear statement of the problem we are trying to solve and a clear understanding of how to solve it without compromising safety in any way. This hearing is a good first step. Today, we are asking: What problems should we solve in the reauthorization? That is an important question, and I look forward to hearing how our witnesses would answer it. In addition to airspace management, we also cannot lose sight of the work that needs to be done to safely implement UAS into the airspace, improve certification, and streamline FAA facilities. I look forward to tackling those topics in future hearings. On that note, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to working with you and Chairman LoBiondo in the next Congress. With your continued commitment to bipartisanship, I know we can produce a bill that provides the funding, the stability, and the flexibility that the FAA needs. I thank you for holding this hearing, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses. ###
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Affordable Care Act is helping thousands of people across Northwest Washington access high quality, affordable health care, and today Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, encouraged people to take advantage of the upcoming open enrollment period. “Families across the Pacific Northwest and the country have better access to affordable health care that fits their budgets because of the Affordable Care Act. People can more easily access preventive care like checkups, and they don’t have to worry about getting denied coverage because of preexisting medical conditions. Washington state is a nationwide leader in expanding people’s access to health care, and our state recently experienced the fourth biggest drop in the nation in our uninsured rate. “Open enrollment for health care coverage in 2015 starts November 15. I encourage people who bought coverage through Washington state’s exchange, the Healthplanfinder, to log in to their accounts, confirm their plan or check out their options, make sure their tax information is correct, and go over any changes to their plan or tax credit. And people who do not yet have coverage should make sure they know their options for the coming year. “We are fortunate that our health insurance marketplace is offering 90 different plans, nearly double the number offered in 2014, and that many people will be able to get tax subsidies to help pay for these plans. “The Affordable Care Act is helping people get the care they need to keep themselves and their families healthy, and I encourage people to get and stay covered,” Larsen said. For more information about open enrollment, visit Washington Healthplanfinder, www.wahealthplanfinder.org. ###
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the announcement from President Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping that both countries will work to limit greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate the effects of climate change. President Obama set a goal to cut U.S. emissions by 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025. President Xi committed to capping China’s carbon emissions for the first time by 2030, as well as increasing the country’s use of non-fossil fuels by 20 percent in the same timeframe. “Today’s commitment by the world’s two largest economies to slow the use of fossil fuels is a critically important step to curbing the harmful effects of climate change worldwide. Our two countries have the responsibility to lead the world toward less reliance on fossil fuel, and I am hopeful this new agreement sets a positive example for other countries. In the Pacific Northwest, we know a healthy environment sustains jobs in many industries, from fishing to tourism and outdoor recreation. “This landmark agreement also means Republicans have even weaker excuses opposing climate change. They have long argued U.S. action is meaningless unless other major emitters like China also act. Now the world’s largest emitter is doing just what Republicans have called for, but their reaction was yet again to oppose immediately any move to mitigate climate change,” Larsen said. ###
11.13.2014	Hear my speech on the House floor urging my colleagues to support reauthorizing the National Estuary Program. WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, introduced to fund estuary improvement projects in the Puget Sound region and nationwide. Larsen introduced the bipartisan bill with Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02 earlier this year. H.R. 5266 would reauthorize the National Estuary Program through 2018, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. “Puget Sound is our county’s second largest estuary and is home to dozens of species of fish, birds and mammals. I am pleased my colleagues in the House voted to approve funding for restoration of vital habitats like these all over the country. “In the Pacific Northwest, we know that protecting natural resources such as estuaries is critical for both the environment and the economy. Trade, fishing, tourism, and outdoor recreation in our region create and sustain thousands of jobs, and all of these activities depend on a healthy Puget Sound. “I have long supported estuary restoration in the Puget Sound region, like the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project, which will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in our state when it is finished. “And in addition to improving salmon habitat, restoring estuaries can have important carbon sequestration effects, as a recent report on the Snohomish Estuary found. Currently planned and in-progress restoration projects will result in at least 2.55 million tons of CO2 sequestered from the atmosphere over the next 100 years. This is the equivalent of a year’s worth of emissions from half a million automobiles. “I am pleased to work with Rep. LoBiondo on this bipartisan bill that will ensure local organizations across the country can continue their work to protect and restore estuaries,” Larsen said. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, helps build the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. The bill now moves to the Senate for its consideration. ###
11.12.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today that the Navy will hold a public meeting on December 3 on Lopez Island to listen to citizens’ comments about EA-18G Growler operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). This announcement about a date and time for the meeting follows Larsen’s previous announcement about the Navy’s decision to hold this additional public meeting. The Navy had indicated it likely would hold the meeting on Friday Harbor, but has chosen Lopez Island instead. The Navy is currently performing an Environmental Impact Study (EIS) on the effects of a potential increase in the number of Growlers operating at NASWI. The EIS will incorporate 5 different scenarios, ranging from 82 planes to a maximum of 118. The Navy held public meetings the last week of October in Coupeville, Oak Harbor and Anacortes for people to share their views with Navy leadership. The public comment period for the EIS also has been extended, and will be open through January 9, 2015. “I recently heard from residents on Lopez Island about their concerns regarding jet noise and the number of Growlers stationed at NASWI. I asked the Navy to include the San Juan Islands in the EIS process, and I appreciate the Navy expanding its outreach to include this community. I remain committed to making sure NASWI remains a premier Navy asset, as well as to finding solutions to reduce the noise impacts on local communities,” Larsen said. Meeting details are as follows: Wednesday, December 3, 2014 3:00 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. Lopez Island Center for Community and Arts 204 Village Road Lopez Island The Navy has also added an additional public meeting in Port Townsend. For additional information, please visit https://www.whidbeyeis.com/ ###
11.11.2014	WASHINGTON—After meeting with veterans at a series of roundtables and events across the Second District over the last week, Rep. Rick Larsen expressed his ongoing commitment this Veterans Day to ensuring those who have served in the U.S. military are able to get the services and resources they need. “Over the past week, I have met with dozens of veterans at roundtables and other events across Northwest Washington. I am grateful to all the veterans who took time to meet with me during these recent roundtables. Their ideas will help me do a better job working on their behalf in Congress. And I thank all veterans in the Second District and across the country for their service. Veterans Day is an important opportunity to pause and recognize the sacrifices of the millions of women and men who have served our country in uniform. I am committed to ensuring these veterans can access the resources they need every day of the year. “The feedback I heard from veterans at a recent series of roundtables I held touched on concerns and ideas about access to health care, education, housing and job resources. This information is critically important to helping shape the work I do in Congress for veterans. “Some veterans shared with me the long timeline for getting an initial disability rating. Others had questions about getting care outside the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) system because of travel challenges. These and other concerns about health care will be on my agenda in the coming weeks and months, especially as the VA carries out reforms to cut down on wait times for medical appointments. “With education, some veterans had questions about using their benefits. I understand that navigating these benefits can be a challenge, which is why I introduced a bill to allow colleges to access veterans’ VA educational benefits to make it easier for colleges to provide educational counseling to veterans who are paying for college with their GI Bill benefits. I will keep working to move this bill and other ideas forward that will ensure veterans can get into the classroom easily and efficiently. “Connecting veterans with jobs is another priority, and I will continue to make sure veterans receive the hiring preferences they have earned. I was upset when the Department of Energy reported that the Bonneville Power Administration had been violating veterans’ preference in their hiring. The BPA Administrator was recently replaced, and I am working with my colleagues to scrutinize the BPA to ensure that veterans are treated fairly. BPA is in the process of reviewing previous job applications to ensure eligible candidates received credit for service and that all applicants were treated fairly. So far, this review has resulted in 69 veterans being hired. “Too many veterans struggle with homelessness. That is why I am a strong supporter of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program, which provides funding to local housing authorities to help find housing for homeless veterans. This program wisely addresses multiple areas of need, matching housing with dedicated caseworkers. In 2012, the Housing Authorities in Skagit and Snohomish counties received grants to provide housing vouchers for 100 homeless vets. “I have always tried to be an advocate for local veterans in Congress by working to address their needs for health care, education, employment, and housing. It will be an honor to represent them in the 114th Congress, and I will continue to work to ensure we honor the promises we make to our women and men in uniform.” Larsen’s office is available to assist veterans who need help accessing resources. Call his Everett office at (425) 252-3188. ###
11.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— As President Obama begins his visit to the leader’s meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit in Beijing, the Co-Chairs of the U.S.-China Working Group released a letter sent to President Obama on October 31, 2014, which asked the President to continue strengthening economic ties with China. Senator Mark Kirk (IL), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Rep. Charles Boustany (LA-03) urged the President in a letter to focus on policies that will advance trade and commercial relationships between the world’s two biggest economies, including progress on the Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT), meeting China's World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, and facilitating travel and tourism between our countries. The Co-Chairs welcomed the President's announcement today of a reciprocal agreement between U.S. and China that will extend business and tourism visas to ten years from the current one-year term, as the Co-Chair's letter requested. “The opportunities for increased economic engagement between the U.S. and China hold vast potential to grow both economies. We encourage the President to pursue a strong bilateral trade agreement that opens doors for U.S. companies to enter Chinese markets, and to facilitate more travel between our two countries. These actions will help our businesses and create jobs here at home,” said Kirk, Larsen, and Boustany. The full text of the letter is below. October 31, 2014 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As Co-Chairs of the U.S.-China Working Group in both the Senate and the House, we respectfully urge you to continue your work in strengthening and intensifying bilateral economic engagement with China during your visit to the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit on November 10-11 in Beijing. As the world’s two largest economies, it is vital that the U.S. and China pursue a constructive agenda that will create economic opportunities and job growth in both countries. China’s remarkable economic growth continues to create tremendous opportunities for American companies to expand to China and create new jobs for America’s exporters. It is estimated that China’s middle class is larger than America’s entire population, and will consume goods and services valued at $3.4 trillion by 2022. Our businesses and exporters have taken advantage of this historic opportunity, to mutual benefit to both the U.S. and China. Over the last decade, U.S. exports to China increased a staggering 255 percent, from $33.7 billion in 2004 to $120 billion in 2013. According to the Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration (ITA), in 2013, exports to China supported nearly 800,000 American jobs. In turn, trade with the U.S. created 11.4 million jobs in China in 2010. Therefore, we urge you to use your leadership at APEC to drive policies that will significantly advance trade and commercial ties between the U.S. and China. First, we ask you to press Chinese leaders to commit to timely negotiation of a high-standard and meaningful U.S.-China Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) and to make a high quality negative list offer with only limited and transparent exceptions to coverage. Currently, the Chinese government restricts U.S. investment in over 100 industry sectors - including manufacturing, services, and agriculture - and often imposes onerous conditions for U.S. businesses, such as mandating local sourcing or technology transfers. Under a strong BIT, China would be obligated to treat U.S. companies the same as Chinese companies, thus significantly leveling the playing field for American businesses in China. We also urge you to reiterate that China should seek to significantly reduce foreign investment barriers immediately, rather than waiting until a BIT is finalized. Positive and timely action by China will significantly help build confidence in the U.S. Congress that China is genuinely committed to market reforms, helping to pave the way for Congressional approval of BIT. Second, we encourage you to focus on facilitating travel and tourism between the U.S. and China by seeking reciprocal endorsement for establishing five-year, multiple entry visas between our countries. Increased tourism from China would create American jobs and bring significant benefits to our economy. According to the ITA, in 2013, 1.8 million Chinese visitors came to the United States and spent $9.8 billion, which supported more than 50,000 American jobs. However, this represents only a small fraction of China’s travelers: according to China’s tourism authorities, 116 million Chinese are expected to travel overseas this year, spending approximately $155 billion. It is our hope that extending a 5-year visa to Chinese visitors and continuing to cut down on current visa processing times at U.S. diplomatic facilities will help us capture more of this vital travel market. Third, we urge you to impress upon China’s leaders that hosting APEC this year provides an important opportunity for Beijing to show leadership on global economic and trade issues. This leadership could be demonstrated by positive measures such as reducing China’s list of sensitivities in the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) Information Technology Agreement negotiations, commitment to join the WTO’s Government Procurement Agreement under meaningful terms, and demonstrable progress on respecting international intellectual property rights norms. Mr. President, your visit to APEC and especially the bilateral meeting with President Xi Jinping represents a unique opportunity to achieve progress on growing economic ties between the world’s two economic superpowers. We respectfully ask you to respond to us in writing with a firm commitment to raise issues outlined in this letter at APEC, which will help advance bilateral relations, help American businesses, and create jobs at home. Sincerely, Mark Kirk U.S. Senator Rick Larsen Member of Congress Charles Boustany Member of Congress ###
11.08.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today about the announcement that Kenneth Bae, the Lynnwood man who has been detained in North Korea for two years, is coming home. “Kenneth Bae’s release is fantastic news for the whole Bae family, after two years of uncertainty and pain. I am so happy for Kenneth and his family that he is free and headed for a reunion with his loved ones, and that he will be able to get the medical attention he needs. “The State Department worked tirelessly to bring Kenneth home, and I am deeply grateful for their efforts. I also thank our international partners such as the government of Sweden for their commitment to helping to free Kenneth, as well as Matthew Miller and Jeffrey Fowle,” Larsen said. ###
10.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will hold roundtable discussions with veterans next week throughout the Second Congressional District. All veterans are welcome to come to learn about Larsen’s work for veterans in Congress and services for veterans available through his Everett and Bellingham offices. Larsen also wants to hear people’s thoughts and concerns about veterans’ issues. Members of the press are invited to attend all events. Everett – Wednesday, November 5 3:30 p.m. – 4:30 p.m. Everett Community College Baker Building Room 203/204 2000 Tower Street Burlington – Thursday, November 6 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. American Legion Post 91 721 E Fairhaven Avenue Stanwood – Thursday, November 6 1:30 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. American Legion Post 92 27001 88th Avenue NW Bellingham – Friday, November 7 2:00 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. American Legion Post 7 1688 W Bakerview Road Oak Harbor – Saturday, November 8 10:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Oak Harbor VFW Post 7392 3037 Goldie Road Lynnwood – Monday, November 10 2:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Gateway Building, Room 352 Edmonds Community College 20000 68th Avenue W ###
10.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded the sailors of the USS Ingraham as the ship returns from its final deployment. The Navy frigate most recently assisted in a mission to target drug trafficking routes off the coast of Central America. The ship is home ported in Everett and will be decommissioned in November. “The USS Ingraham and its sailors have a long and decorated history of service to our country. I applaud the many officers and enlisted sailors who served with distinction on deployments around the world throughout the ship’s 26 years of service. “Naval Station Everett is critical to our national security, and the Ingraham was one of the first ships to be assigned to the base. The ship has been a fixture of the Everett waterfront and played an important role as part of the Pacific fleet. “As the ship comes into port for the final time, the community of Everett can be proud of the ship and the sailors who made their home in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. ###
10.24.2014	Washington — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on today’s tragedy at Marysville-Pilchuck High School. “As a father of two teenage boys, my heart breaks as I consider the families who were given the worst news imaginable today. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this tragedy, their friends, and everyone in our community who has been impacted by this atrocious shooting. “I would like to thank our first responders and the Marysville-Pilchuck High School personnel for their quick action today. You put yourselves at risk to keep our children safe. I know I speak for our community as a whole when I thank you for your service. ###
10.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the Navy would hold a public meeting in Friday Harbor to listen to citizens’ comments about EA-18G Growler operations at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). The Navy is currently performing an Environmental Impact Study (EIS) on the effects of a potential increase in the number of Growlers operating at NASWI. The EIS will incorporate 5 different scenarios, ranging from 82 planes to a maximum of 118. The Navy had previously scheduled public meetings for 10/28-10/30 in Coupeville, Oak Harbor, and Anacortes for people to share their views with Navy leadership. “During a recent public meeting on Lopez Island, I listened to my constituents who had concerns about noise and increasing the number of Growlers at NASWI. I asked the Navy to address the jet noise concerns from the San Juans and am pleased that they responded and are taking seriously outreach to the Islands,” said Rep. Larsen. “I remain committed to ensuring that NASWI remains a premier Navy asset and I am working to find solutions to reduce the impact of noise on local communities,” Larsen concluded. Larsen recently attended a meeting on Lopez Island to address community concerns about jet noise from flights out of NASWI. During this meeting he laid out his ideas about how to reduce the impact of jet noise going forward. This plan includes finding funding for an acoustic hangar to reduce noise impact on Lopez Island, research into technology to reduce engine noise, software that might safely reduce the required number of training flights, and asking the Navy to do monitoring on the San Juans as part of an environmental impact study for the EA-18G Growler. The Navy has also added an additional public meeting in Port Townsend. Date, time, and location for these two meetings have not yet been announced. For additional information, please visit https://www.whidbeyeis.com/ ###
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the groundbreaking today of the new 777X Composite Wing Center in Everett. The $1 billion investment will sustain thousands of jobs in Everett. “Today’s groundbreaking marks an important milestone for the aerospace capital of the world, the Pacific Northwest. Boeing’s investment will drive long-term economic growth in our region, creating jobs and opportunity for thousands of people. “Everett is the right place to get the 777X built. Our aerospace workforce is unrivaled, and Everett workers will manufacture planes that will carry people to every corner of the globe. “The wing center is another step in securing Washington’s place as an international leader in aerospace manufacturing for generations to come,” Larsen said. More information about the center is available here. ###
10.21.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today welcomed the news of Jeffrey Fowle’s release from North Korea, and continued his calls for Kenneth Bae to be released. Bae, a Lynnwood man, has been detained in North Korea since November 2012. “Jeffrey Fowle’s safe return home is great news for his family and his community, and I welcome this decision. “We are nearing the two-year mark of Kenneth Bae’s detention, and it is past time to bring him home to his family and to get him the medical attention he needs. “The United States remains willing to work with North Korea and our international partners to secure Kenneth’s return home, and I continue to call on North Korea to grant Kenneth a pardon and special amnesty. I stand with Kenneth’s family and the U.S. State Department as we work together to ensure his safe return. “My thoughts also remain with Matthew Miller and his family,” Larsen said. ###
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON—Reps. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02, and Rick Larsen, WA-02, today commended the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) and RTCA NextGen Advisory Committee’s (NAC) joint report, titled “NextGen Priorities Joint Implementation Plan,” laying out their roadmap for progress on four near-term capabilities of the Next Generation Air Transportation system (NextGen). Chairman LoBiondo and Ranking Member Larsen of the House Aviation Subcommittee tasked the FAA in February with creating this implementation plan, which focuses on near-term capabilities identified by the NAC. In September, LoBiondo and Larsen wrote to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx reemphasizing the need to meet the October 18 deadline for the plan. The four capabilities include improved navigation using satellite systems, air to ground data communications, runway use efficiency improvements, and improved performance in ground operations at airports. “The joint plan issued today is a step in the right direction towards delivering long awaited NextGen capabilities to our aviation system and the traveling public. I applaud the hard work that FAA and industry have put forth in developing this report. As the FAA and industry move towards implementation of these NextGen capabilities, the House Aviation Subcommittee will continue to exercise its oversight role during this critical phase of transition,” said Chairman LoBiondo. “NextGen has the potential to make better use of our airspace to facilitate safer, more efficient air travel. When we heard from aviation stakeholders that they were not seeing immediate results from NextGen, we asked FAA to come up with this plan for quick implementation of these new technologies. While these priorities may seem technical, their timely implementation will mean safer, faster travel for the flying public. I look forward to working with Chairman LoBiondo to continue strong oversight and keep NextGen on track,” Ranking Member Larsen said. The FAA’s report is available here. ###
10.14.2014	SEATTLE—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, toured the docked Polar Sea icebreaker in Seattle on Friday, October 10. Listen to an interview he did with KOMO Newsradio following the tour. Larsen has long called for the U.S. Coast Guard to reactivate the Polar Sea to ensure the U.S. has the resources it needs to protect U.S. interests in the Arctic and to create shipbuilding jobs in the Puget Sound region. Larsen has led efforts in the House of Representatives to protect the country’s icebreaker fleet and to help the U.S. better prioritize its economic, strategic and environmental interests in the Arctic. ###
10.02.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, pressed the U.S. Postal Service for answers to his questions regarding a proposal to limit the Shaw Island Post Office’s operations to four hours per day. Larsen also called on USPS once again to designate the island’s post office as Part-Time, which would allow the office to remain open six hours per day and to be staffed by a postmaster. Larsen initially made these requests to the USPS Postmaster General in August after hearing concerns from Shaw Island residents. Larsen received a response indicating that USPS planned to cut the Shaw Island Post Office hours to four per day starting on October 6, but without clear answers about how USPS decides hours of operations for post offices located on islands accessible only by ferry. The full text of Larsen’s letter is below. October 1, 2014 The Honorable Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, D.C. 20260-0010 Dear Mr. Postmaster General: I received your letter dated September 18 in response to my August 7 inquiry regarding the Shaw Island Post Office in Washington state. While I appreciate your response, it did not answer the questions I raised. I once again urge you to reconsider your proposal to reduce hours at Shaw Island to four hours per day starting October 6. As noted in my previous correspondence, in October of 2012, your representative explained to my staff through official correspondence that under the Post Plan, the USPS operations team had determined that offices “that are on islands and have limited transportation services to the mainland…will have their retail hours adjusted to being open 6 hours per day.” While your response to my most recent inquiry asserts that “the ferry schedule shows frequent trips to and from the island daily,” a multi-hour, costly ferry trip meets any commonsense definition of limited. Furthermore, the multi-hour commitment of ferry travel parallels the accessibility challenges communities located more than 25 miles from the nearest alternative post office face. These are circumstances that the Post Plan deems worthy of keeping offices open six hours per day under Part-Time Post Office status. I am also concerned about USPS’s ability to staff this office at such significantly reduced hours given the low wage and the possibility that this employee would have to travel from another island to work. In light of these issues, I request an official response to the following questions: 1. What standard does USPS use to compare the significant time and cost of ferry travel to the 25-mile driving threshold established under the Post Plan? 2. How does USPS determine that Shaw Island differs from islands off the coast of Maine such as Long Island, Ilesboro, and Chebeague, which have ferry service similar to Shaw Island and were maintained at six hours of operation and Part-Time Post Office status? I look forward to working with you to understand the unique circumstances on Shaw Island. As always, I will continue to work with my colleagues to pass legislation that restores the Postal Service’s financial stability while maintaining high quality service for my constituents in Washington state. Thank you for your assistance with this matter. Sincerely, Rick Larsen United States Congressman Washington State, 2nd District ###
09.29.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the announcement today that a group of Washington community colleges, including Everett Community College, will receive nearly $10 million from the U.S. Department of Labor to support job training in the manufacturing, energy and construction industries. The grant is the final round of the four-year federal Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training initiative. Washington's Centers of Excellence for Clean Energy, Aerospace and Advanced Manufacturing, and Construction are leading the grant initiative. “Equipping workers with the right skills to compete in the aerospace and manufacturing sectors is a triple win for workers, businesses, and the local economy. Some of this funding will support Everett Community College’s new Advanced Manufacturing Training and Education Center, which I was able to visit in May and officially opens this week. The center will house several advance manufacturing programs such as welding and precision machining. The new grant will support equipment for the center, as well as efforts to better align training to make sure students are well-prepared for today’s manufacturing jobs. “One of my top priorities is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. This federal investment helps accomplish that goal by partnering community colleges with local employers to make sure students get the best training to succeed in the job market,” Larsen said. More information about the federal grant is available here, and more information about Everett Community College’s award is available here. ###
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding the announcement that Cynthia Quarterman, Administrator for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, is resigning. PHMSA is responsible for regulating the movement of hazardous materials, including crude oil by rail. “I appreciate all of the work Administrator Quarterman has done to make progress toward improving the safety of how we move crude oil by rail. “Administrator Quarterman’s resignation should not be a reason to delay the finalization of critically important changes to oil car safety rules. These safety rules need to get over the finish line, and I’m confident Secretary Foxx and his team will remain focused on having a final rule by the end of the year,” Larsen said. Larsen has met with Quarterman to discuss his concerns about the safe transport of crude oil and to be briefed on the actions PHMSA is taking. ###
09.23.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today regarding the BNSF announcement that by early October more than 600 first responders in Washington state will get training about how to handle hazardous materials, including crude oil, that travel by rail. Larsen helped connect first responders in Northwest Washington to these free trainings. “First responders are the last line of defense should an accident happen, which means they need to be well trained and equipped to protect communities and themselves. I am pleased BNSF is offering free training to first responders across Washington state, and I will continue to be in contact with local officials planning other training events across Northwest Washington later this year,” Larsen said. Larsen also underscored his commitment to ensuring crude oil shipped by rail is transported as safely as possible. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is working to hold railroads and shippers accountable for higher standards to keep communities near rail lines safe. “The accidents involving trains carrying crude oil last year were a wakeup call that Congress needed to move quickly to make these trains safer. Crude by rail traffic through the Pacific Northwest has increased exponentially in the last couple of years, which makes better safety measures all the more imperative. And constituents have told me they are concerned about the safety of their neighborhoods, a concern that I share. The more I learn about crude by rail, the more I understand the changes we can make to keep cargo moving forward safely and efficiently. “This is why I am not waiting around hoping the next big crude oil accident does not happen here in the Pacific Northwest. I have been engaging with local, state and federal officials, as well as industry experts and first responders to learn more about how we can transport crude by rail as safely as possible by putting in place stronger standards for tank cars, making sure rail lines are well maintained, and ensuring first responders know how to handle a potential accident. “Getting the most dangerous tank cars off the rails is important, and I have pushed the U.S. Department of Transportation to raise the standard on the cars that carry crude. Secretary Foxx has assured me he recognizes the critical importance of putting in place new standards. I will continue to work with my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to make sure new rules are rigorous and effective. “Another safety priority is ensuring tank cars, tracks and loading facilities get inspected carefully and regularly. I asked my colleagues on the House Appropriations committee to provide more money for these inspections. I also examined BNSF’s inspection processes in Everett earlier this year to understand them better. “I am pleased that safe transport of crude by rail is getting more attention in the Pacific Northwest and across the country and that my colleagues also see this issue as a priority. One of my main jobs is to stay ahead of critical issues my constituents share as issues, and crude by rail is a prime example of how I can push for progress to keep our communities safe. The work over the next several months is to translate rules on paper into safety on the rails,” Larsen said. Larsen has met with local leaders, state legislators, Washington Transportation Secretary Lynn Peterson, and Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission Executive Director Steve King to discuss ways to work together. He also has visited the Shell, Phillips 66, Tesoro and BP refineries to better understand the construction of their crude by rail unloading facilities in Northwest Washington. Larsen also has met with several federal officials, including Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) Administrator Cynthia Quarterman to discuss his concerns about the safe transport of crude through the 2nd District and to be briefed on the actions PHMSA is taking. He has talked with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to push for strong safety standards. And he has also spoken to former NTSB Chairman Deborah Hersman, who shared her agency’s perspective about how to improve safety. ###
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko’s address to a joint session of Congress. “Today my colleagues and I heard from President Poroshenko, who continues to face difficult and highly tense circumstances as Russia encroaches on Ukraine’s eastern territory. He sent an important message to Russia: ‘In Ukraine, you don’t build a democracy – it already exists. You just defend it.’ “Mr. Poroshenko noted Russia’s history of aggression, including more recently into Georgia in 2008. He expressed his grave concern that radical movements like that of the Russian separatists in Eastern Ukraine will continue to threaten regional and global security. The challenges Ukraine faces are not just winning a war, he said, but building lasting peace and freedom for the Ukrainian people. “I reject Russia’s military intervention into Ukraine, and I voted for H.R. 4278, the Ukraine Support Act. The House passed this bill to indicate U.S. support for Ukraine’s sovereignty while denouncing Russia’s invasion and seizing of Crimea. I also support the sanctions that have been placed on certain Russian officials and economic sectors. “Hearing this address was particularly important to me because my district is home to more than 10,000 Ukrainian-Americans. “I have met with leaders of the Ukrainian-American community in my district to get their advice and guidance about the ongoing conflict. I share their serious concern for the lack of stability in Ukraine resulting from Russia’s military action. NATO recently criticized Russia for violating Ukraine’s sovereignty, and I agree it is long past time for Russia to respect Ukraine’s territorial integrity, support its unity, and recognize the legitimacy of its government,” Larsen said. Washington state’s second Congressional district has the seventh highest number of people of Ukrainian ancestry among all Congressional districts, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of and the House passed a spending bill that will maintain government operations through December 11. The continuing resolution also extends the authorization of the Export-Import Bank through June 30, 2015, and authorizes the administration’s plan to train and equip moderate Syrian opposition forces to fight against the terrorist group ISIL. “Keeping the government running means keeping thousands of people on the job. Road and bridge construction will continue uninterrupted, and veterans and seniors will continue receiving the services and benefits they need. “Congress needs to do a better job of returning to a regular budgeting process instead of relying on stopgap measures. But I am pleased the House passed this short-term bill and is not playing games of brinksmanship. “This bill also keeps the Export-Import Bank open for business through next June. I have long been a champion for the bank, which provides critical financing for businesses of all sizes throughout the Pacific Northwest and the country who export their goods overseas. Helping these companies grow their exports means creating more jobs here at home. I will keep pushing for a long-term reauthorization of the bank, as laid out in the bill I cosponsored earlier this year,” Larsen said. Larsen also voted in favor of an amendment to the continuing resolution that approves the administration’s plan to train and equip moderate Syrian opposition forces to fight against the terrorist group ISIL. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of training and equipping moderate Syrian opposition forces to fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has received regular briefings about ISIL and the threat it poses. He asked the administration this week to consider lessons learned from past efforts to train and equip indigenous fighters. “The rise of the terrorist group ISIL poses a serious threat to Iraqis, Syrians and the Middle East. Our friends and allies in the region want U.S. assistance in beating back ISIL. If ISIL is allowed to grow, they could become a direct threat to the U.S. “As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have closely observed other train and equip efforts around the world over the last 13 years. I wanted to be clear with the administration about my concerns with this strategy to ensure it takes into consideration important lessons learned, particularly from our military’s time in Afghanistan. “Coalition airstrikes will be more effective if Iraqi and Syrian forces can reinforce them on the ground. In Iraq, ground support is provided by the newly formed Iraqi government’s military forces and the Kurdish Peshmerga. The U.S. can help develop similar forces in Syria with careful vetting, training and equipping of moderate opposition forces. “To move toward greater stability in the region, Iraqis and Syrians must be the ones to push back against ISIL. The U.S. can provide support with targeted airstrikes and assistance in building the capacity of these indigenous forces,” Larsen said. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON—A bill to provide continued funding to improve estuaries in the Puget Sound region that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, introduced passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee today. Larsen introduced the bipartisan bill with Rep. Frank LoBiondo, NJ-02 earlier this summer. H.R. 5266 would reauthorize the National Estuary Program through 2018, funding local efforts to restore and protect sensitive estuaries and their wildlife. “Estuaries are a critical habitat for salmon, birds and many other species in the Pacific Northwest, where we know that protecting our natural resources is good for both the environment and the economy. In addition to improving salmon habitat, restoring estuaries can have important carbon sequestration effects, as a recent report on the Snohomish Estuary found. Healthy estuaries support our strong fishing industry and are one of the many draws for tourists who visit Northwest Washington because of recreational opportunities. This bill will continue federal support for local efforts to keep these sensitive habitats vital today and for future generations. “I have long supported estuary restoration in the Puget Sound region, like the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project, which will be one of the largest tidal marsh restoration projects ever completed in our state when it is finished. “I am pleased to work with Rep. LoBiondo on this bipartisan bill that will ensure local organizations across the country can continue their work to protect and restore estuaries,” Larsen said. Funding from the National Estuary Program, which is administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, helps build the comprehensive plan for Puget Sound recovery through the Puget Sound Partnership. ###
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, outlined his concerns about training and equipping Syrian opposition forces to fight against the terrorist group ISIL in a letter to President Obama. In the letter, Larsen also advocated that Congress consider a specific and separate law to authorize military operations against ISIL, rather than allowing the President to rely on the existing post-9/11 Authorization for Use of Military Force. Full text of the letter follows. September 16, 2014 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As Congress prepares to vote on the authorization to train and equip indigenous forces in Syria, I want to highlight lessons I have learned as a member of the House Armed Services Committee over the last 13 years our military has been in Afghanistan. Additionally, I want to outline concerns about the Administration’s use of the 2001 and 2002 AUMF as the legal justification for this action. Train and Equip After 13 years of fighting in Afghanistan, our military has learned valuable lessons about creating an indigenous fighting force. In 2002, the U.S. undertook the goal of establishing and training a 70,000-soldier Afghan National Army. At present, the size of the forces trained by the U.S. in the Afghan national security apparatus is more than five times greater than the original estimate. The conclusion is clear—to achieve military objectives, initial training estimates may be far too low. This escalation has also led to increased costs. In 2002, U.S. officials estimated the cost to train and equip Afghan forces would be $350 million per year. A more current NATO estimate puts the annual budget at $4.1 billion. The vetting process also presents serious challenges. As the Administration trains and equips the moderate Syrian opposition, how can the vetting process ensure that individuals are moderate, Syrian, and truly opposition? In Afghanistan, 144 members of the NATO coalition have been killed and 183 wounded in ‘green-on-blue’ attacks since January 1, 2008. While vetting methods have improved since attacks peaked in 2012, U.S. military personnel are still at risk. A green-on-blue attack killed Major General Harold Greene last month. The vetting process remains imperfect. And it puts U.S. trainers in harm’s way and risks equipping ISIL sympathizers. Even those who complete training may not remain active in the indigenous security force. In Afghanistan, a recent SIGAR report found that NTM-A/CSTC-A estimated a 30 percent to 50 percent annual attrition rate. To achieve a goal of 5,400 Syrians fighting against ISIL, many times more will have to be recruited to account for force growth, infiltrators, and attrition. Additionally, when compensating individual fighters, the Administration must take steps to choose an appropriate level and means of payment. Undercompensating fighters for their service risks desertions, and not compensating in the appropriate method has the potential to encourage petty corruption. AUMF My second major concern is the legislative authority cited by the Administration as the legal justification for the campaign against ISIL. The 2001 Authorization of Use of Military Force (AUMF) authorizes the President to “use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided” the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 to “prevent future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations, or persons.” This straightforward provision has been to military action what Sections 215 and 702 of the USA PATRIOT Act were to domestic surveillance—expanded and exploited by consecutive administrations to conduct activities far beyond what Congress intended. Using the post-September 11 AUMF to justify attacks against ISIL is a distortion of the law’s intent. ISIL did not plan, authorize, commit or aid in those heinous attacks. This military campaign would be on a more solid legal standing if it relied on different authorities. As President, you have the Article II authority as Commander in Chief to order a military strike to prevent an attack on the U.S. Additionally, under the War Powers Resolution of 1973, the President can engage the military in action for 60 days without an AUMF unless Congress enacts an AUMF, extends the 60 day period, or certifies that an additional 30 days are needed in order to withdraw forces. However, the strongest legal justification for action against ISIL would be a specific and separate AUMF, which explicitly defines the individuals, groups, geography, and timeline within its scope. This would provide our military with the clarity and guidance needed to best combat ISIL. It would also give Congress the opportunity to rewrite, reform, and limit the 2001 AUMF, consistent with your pledge at the National Defense University in 2013. Thank you for leadership in these challenging times. As you prepare to counter the grave threat posed by ISIL, I urge you to take advantage of the lessons that cost many lives and billions of dollars to learn in Afghanistan and Iraq. It is also my hope that this action can be the impetus for a renewed focus on the legal justification for use of force to provide future presidents with clear, focused authority in the future. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
09.15.2014	$1.5 million grant will go to Snohomish County to help communities recover from mudslide Washington, D.C.—Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01), and Snohomish County Executive John Lovick announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will make a $1.5 million grant to Snohomish County to help local communities recover from the mudslide. The funding comes through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Sanctions Fund, which helps communities impacted by major declared disasters to address their long-term recovery needs following the impacts of recent disasters. Snohomish County will have flexibility to allocate the funding to address recovery needs within the affected area, as long as the funding is eligible under CDBG. “Disasters like these are a time for all of us to come together to help the impacted families and communities get back on their feet, so I am glad that we were able to deliver this latest round of federal support,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Oso, Darrington, and Arlington have been through so much this past year, and this investment will help these communities continue down the long hard road to recovery.” “This grant will help residents affected by the State Route 530 mudslide take another step forward in rebuilding their communities,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “As we approach the 6-month anniversary of the tragic mudslide, we must continue to work to ensure every resource possible is available for the long-term recovery of the Stillaguamish Valley.” “The communities affected by the 530 mudslide have shown strength and resilience as they recover from this tragedy. I am pleased that Oso, Darrington and Arlington will get this financial support to continue the hard work of rebuilding their homes and livelihoods,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “This funding is part of our ongoing commitment to doing everything possible to ensure that resources are available to help the families and businesses affected and to help the community rebuild,” said Rep. DelBene. “The community’s response in Oso, Darrington, and Arlington has been incredible since the landslide. I’ll continue to push for resources to help the region recover from this tragedy.” “We’ve been blessed to have such great support every step of this difficult journey,” Snohomish County Executive John Lovick said. “This generous grant will go far to help the hardworking people directly affected by the slide and flooding continue to recover and move forward with their lives.” ###
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County announced that the Darrington School District has received $10,341 through a federal Project SERV grant to help offset costs the district incurred after the State Route 530 mudslide in March. The Project SERV grant will help reimburse the school district for transportation expenditures, as extra funds were needed to ensure students were able to get to school, as well as costs for substitute teachers, who stood in for classroom staff who were unable immediately return to work following the tragedy. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) wrote a May 30 letter to the U.S. Department of Education supporting the district’s application for the grant. “This grant is vital to help the Darrington school district deal with costs that were needed to keep schools running following the tragedy on March 22,” the members of the delegation said. “In the aftermath of the landslide, students and teachers faced many challenges, but the people of Darrington came together and provided the support necessary to keep schools open. This grant will help reimburse the district for the costs incurred during this tragedy, and we appreciate the assistance as the community continues to recover.” Project SERV (School Emergency Response to Violence) grants, issued through the Department of Education, provide funding for short- and long- term education-related services for school districts and institutions of higher education to help these educational institutions recover from violent or traumatic events. Below is the text from the delegation’s May 30 letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan. Dear Secretary Duncan, As you know, on March 22, the residents of our state experienced a horrible tragedy. Forty-three Washingtonians lost their lives when a landslide struck the town of Oso, and an entire neighborhood was destroyed. The slurry created by the landslide has made it difficult for search teams to fully explore the wreckage, leaving the community in a state of constant uncertainty. The area’s transit infrastructure has also been seriously damaged as State Highway 530, a crucial route through the isolated region, is covered with up to 70 feet of debris. The landslide has presented considerable challenges for the local school districts of Darrington and Arlington. Oso children attended both districts and each has students among the missing or dead. These districts are rightfully very concerned about the long-term mental health impacts of the trauma experienced by their students, faculty, and staff. Transportation is another significant problem, as seven Darrington teachers who reside in Arlington saw the slide wash away their only reasonable route to their work, while nine Darrington students enrolled in a part-time program at the Sno-Isle Skills Center in Everett are now struggling to attend class. In response to this tragedy, we would like to offer our strong support for the Project SERV grant applications submitted by the Darrington and Arlington School Districts. We believe these flexible funding streams will offer vital assistance to the districts in stabilizing their school learning environments, and helping their students and communities recover in the aftermath of the landslide. Establishing a sense of normalcy for the students in these communities must be a priority during this difficult time. The Washington delegation appreciates the assistance and communication that the Department of Education has provided thus far. Particularly in light of the major disaster declaration issued by President Obama, it is our hope and expectation that the Department will continue to work expeditiously to provide the Darrington and Arlington School Districts with the support they urgently need. We look forward to continuing to partner with you as these communities begin to recover and rebuild in the weeks, months, and years to come. ###
09.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following the appearance of Kenneth Bae, the Lynnwood man who has been detained in North Korea for more than a year, on CNN. “I remain deeply disappointed that North Korea continues to detain Kenneth after nearly two years. While it is positive to hear Kenneth say he is being treated ‘as humanely as possible,’ it is time to let Kenneth come home to his family and get the medical attention he needs. “The United States has repeatedly shown we are eager to work with North Korea and our international partners to secure Kenneth’s return home, and I continue to call on North Korea to grant Kenneth a pardon and special amnesty so he can come home. I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Kenneth’s family and the U.S. State Department as we work together to ensure his safe return. “My thoughts also are with Matthew Todd Miller and Jeffrey Edward Fowle and their families, and I hope for their safe and speedy return,” Larsen said. ###
08.14.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Congress to reauthorize and update the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as nearly all Washington state schools send letters to parents required by the law indicating that the schools are failing. The U.S. Department of Education revoked Washington state’s waiver from the law, also known as No Child Left Behind (NCLB), meaning schools and student test scores now must be evaluated under those flawed standards. “On a recent visit to Mountlake Terrace High School, students schooled me about robotics. At a failing school, would I learn from students working to build automatic glove machines, test the aerodynamics of wings, and engage in medical research? Would failing students be winning national recognition for their successes in leadership and technology? “During a visit to a Marysville school, I learned about converting kinetic energy from an eighth grader analyzing the potential for a mythological creature’s physical movement, part of the school district’s graphic design and animation lab classes that serve 350 students. At a failing school, would hundreds of students be taking classes like these and others in applied math, robotics and mechanics? I have visited schools across my district and I don’t see failure. I see students and teachers innovating in ways that will prepare kids for successful careers in everything from engineering to medicine. “But most of our state’s schools are in the process of sending letters to parents indicating the schools are failing. These letters in no way reflect a change in the quality of education in Washington state. The requirement to send letters describing schools as ‘failing’ only demonstrates that NCLB’s standards are terribly constructed. These outdated education standards are completely out of touch with Washington state’s schools. These flawed standards for schools must be scrapped and replaced. “Washington state has put in place concrete goals and a timeline to improve education for all students. These standards create accountability that emphasizes progress by improving outcomes for all students, including those who might face different challenges like students with disabilities, students with learning challenges, or English language learners. Under our system, every school works to increase achievement for each group of students, even those who might struggle. Schools that are meeting or exceeding expectations adjust their goals upward to improve even more. “Without the waiver our schools will continue to make progress towards these goals, but will be forced to do so under NCLB's undeserved label of failure. Washington state public schools have hardworking students and a strong workforce of dedicated teachers and administrators. Congress is failing them by not reauthorizing and updating the Elementary and Secondary Education Act so it works for students, teachers, and schools. “Federal law should promote innovation like the robotics and aerospace projects I’ve seen in our classrooms. Washington state’s experience shows that it is imperative for Congress to act, to support efforts like our state’s that are challenging students and preparing them for college and careers, ” Larsen said. Larsen and other members of the Washington state Congressional delegation asked the Department of Education in June to waive the letter requirement. ###
08.11.2014	WHIDBEY ISLAND—Today Rep. Rick Larsen,WA-02, Mayor Nancy Conard and Commissioner Helen Price Johnson issued the following statement calling on the Navy to allow for more public input in light of the potential for additional EA-18G Growlers to be stationed at NAS Whidbey Island. On July 25, the Navy announced it would expand the scope of the Environmental Impact Study to include several different scenarios, since Congress has not agreed on a final funding level for Growler purchases. “While the Navy should be commended for proactively expanding the Environmental Impact Study instead of waiting for Congress to act, they should also reopen the study to public input. “We’ve listened to our constituents, and it is clear that any change to the number of Growlers on Whidbey Island will impact this community and their interactions with the base. We know our constituents will want to engage with the Navy in this process to discuss community impacts and to propose potential mitigation options. “Today we call on the Navy to re-open the comment and scoping process of their EA-18G Environmental Impact Study so that they can hear concerns and comments from the public about potential basing decisions. Additionally, a timeline for the amended EIS process should be published well in advance, so hard-working people can be certain that they are able to participate. Congressman Larsen represents Washington’s 2nd Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Mayor Conard is the Mayor of Coupeville. Commissioner Price Johnson is the Island County Commissioner from District One, serving constituents from Whidbey Island south of greater Oak Harbor. ###
08.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement that he had authorized the U.S. military to conduct airstrikes against forces from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). This State Department-designated terrorist group has moved towards the city of Erbil, where the U.S. has a consulate, and has threatened to massacre the Yezidi religious minority. President Obama also announced humanitarian aid for the Yezidi and military assistance for the Iraqi government and Kurdish forces. “The rise of ISIL puts the safety of all Iraqis in jeopardy, regardless of faith. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have been receiving regular updates on the crisis in Iraq and U.S. capabilities in the region. I support President Obama’s decision to conduct targeted airstrikes and humanitarian airdrops to relieve the besieged Yezidi community. With a minority facing massacre, U.S. consular officials in harms’ way and a request from our Iraqi allies, conscience and capability support this mission. “Since 2003, 4,491 American women and men have been killed in Iraq. As grave as the situation in Iraq is, I do not believe it justifies putting more American troops into combat. On June 19, I voted to prohibit funding for combat in Iraq in the defense spending bill, though the measure did not pass. “Our military cannot solve all of Iraq’s problems. Division and persecution by President Maliki’s government has created an environment that allowed ISIL to grow and undermined the Iraqi military’s ability to respond to the threat. The country’s leadership now has an obligation to create a government that all Iraqis can call their own,” Larsen concluded. Larsen serves on the House Armed Services Committee. ###
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on the U.S. Postal Service to designate the Shaw Island Post Office in Washington state a Part-Time Post Office. In a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe, Larsen called the USPS proposed plan to reduce operating hours at the Shaw Island Post Office to four hours a day shortsighted and inappropriate for a post office located on an island that is only accessible by ferry. He called on the Postmaster General to designate the facility as a Part-Time Post Office, adjusting their operating hours to six hours per day ensuring the office is staffed by a Postmaster. The full text of Larsen’s letter follows: August 7, 2014 The Honorable Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington, D.C. 20260-0010 Dear Mr. Postmaster General: I appreciate your continued attention to issues of importance for my constituents in Northwest Washington state. I would like to direct your immediate attention to the Shaw Island Post Office in Washington state and urge you to designate it as a Part-Time Post Office. USPS recently proposed a shortsighted plan to reduce operating hours at the Shaw Island Post Office under the Post Plan. Residents were informed at the community meeting on July 31 that USPS plans to operate the Shaw office four hours per day under this plan. This is clearly inappropriate for a post office located on an island that is only accessible by ferry. The Post Plan establishes that offices more than 25 miles from the nearest alternative office will be maintained at six hours of operation per day, and USPS has frequently recognized the unique necessity of ferry travel as a similar qualification. Part-Time Post Offices are the standard for offices in similarly situated remote island communities. In official correspondence with my staff with respect to the post office located on Waldron Island, WA in October of 2012, your representative explained that under the Post Plan, the USPS operations team has determined that offices “that are on islands and have limited transportation services to the mainland…will have their retail hours adjusted to being open 6 hours per day.” Travelling off-island is a significant investment of time and resources for my constituents, requiring multiple hours and a cost of $26.50 per car on the ferry. Many residents of Shaw Island are elderly and rely on timely delivery and accessible pickup for refrigerated medications at their local post office. I look forward to your timely action to maintain service on Shaw Island. As always, I will continue to work with my colleagues to pass legislation that restores the Postal Service’s financial stability while maintaining high quality service for my constituents in Washington state. Thank you for your assistance with this matter. Sincerely, Rick Larsen United States Congressman Washington State, 2nd District ###
08.05.2014	WASHINGTON—To help the U.S. better prioritize its interests in the Arctic, Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Don Young, AK, announced today they are creating the Congressional Arctic Working Group. The bipartisan group will bring together stakeholders from across the native, environmental, oil and gas, mining, national security, and navigation communities to advise Congress about the opportunities and challenges for the U.S. as an Arctic nation. As the U.S. prepares to take over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2015, the country needs a better strategy to coordinate and act on its interests in the region, according to an April report from the Government Accountability Office. The new Arctic Working Group is designed to bring needed attention to Arctic policy and to make sure the U.S. can secure its economic, strategic and environmental interests in the region. “The icy waters of the Arctic may seem remote, but other countries are rapidly and successfully traversing those waters to conduct research, develop energy resources and carry goods to market,” said Congressman Rick Larsen. “The U.S. can sit by and let other countries run the Arctic show, or we can suit up and act to protect our economic, strategic and environmental interests,” Larsen said. “Ports in the Pacific Northwest will become more frequent stops for ships journeying through the Arctic, increasing economic activity along our waterfronts. Maritime activity in the Arctic requires specialized equipment like icebreakers. Shipbuilders and mechanics in Northwest ports are well positioned to take on the added work, creating more jobs. Just because the Arctic is at a high latitude doesn’t mean the U.S. should ignore it. The Arctic Working Group, which I’m pleased to start with Mr. Young, will bring needed attention to a part of the world we can’t afford to neglect.” “Our nation must quickly step up to the plate to address the growing needs of the Arctic, including in areas of resource development, shipping, tourism, and Alaska Native priorities,” said Congressman Don Young. “I am proud to lead that charge with my friend Congressman Rick Larsen by forming the Congressional Arctic Working Group, which I believe will expand the conversation on this vital American issue. As an Alaskan, I am quick to remind my colleagues in Congress that we are an Arctic nation and inaction will only hurt our many social and economic interests. As I’ve said before, our nation needs a strong leader in the Arctic with the means necessary to dedicate special attention to the many relationships and priorities in the region. While the announcement of our nations’ first Arctic Representative is a positive step forward for Alaska and the rest of the country, we must show the rest of the world that the United States is ready to take over the Arctic Council Chairmanship by appointing an Ambassador level position to the post.” The Arctic Institute, a nonprofit organization focused on Arctic policy issues and analysis, welcomed the formation of the working group. “With the United States set to take over the Chairmanship of the Arctic Council in Spring 2015, this is great time to get a dialogue started to increase attention on Arctic issues in Congress and raise awareness as to why the Arctic region should rank higher on the agenda,” said Malte Humpert, executive director of the Arctic Institute. “The Arctic Ocean is being transformed from a year-round frozen desert into a seasonally navigable ocean. This transformation brings with it great challenges and opportunities and effective stewardship will be key to ensuring that Alaskan and U.S. interests can be met.” Larsen and Young have advocated for improved U.S. infrastructure in the Arctic, including a stronger icebreaker fleet and an ambassador for Arctic Affairs, a position other Arctic nations already have in place. Read their op-ed in the Washington Post. ###
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the House of Representatives passed a measure to provide $225 million for Iron Dome, the Israeli missile defense system. Since the start of the current conflict, Hamas has fired more than 2,000 rockets at Israel. The Iron Dome system has proven successful at destroying many of these incoming rockets, according to Israeli officials. “Israel has a fundamental right to self-defense and an obligation to protect its citizens from attack. This funding ensures the Israeli military has the tools it needs to continue to shield civilians from Hamas’ indiscriminate rocket fire. “Recent violence is tragic and complicates the already difficult task of establishing a two-state solution. I firmly believe that the United States should be involved in promoting the establishment of a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East,” Larsen said. ###
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted against a bill (H.R. 5272) today that would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which protects DREAMers—young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children and have lived by the law while here—from deportation. “My vote against this bill is a vote in favor of the real solution: comprehensive immigration reform. Immigration is a complex problem that requires a comprehensive solution. “Republicans’ message today to young immigrants is talk to the hand: you are not welcome to contribute your talents and ideas here. This proposal derails the lives young immigrants are building here, turning the American Dream into the American nightmare. “This bill shuns young immigrants and wipes out gains our country has made for immigrants claiming protection under the Violence Against Women Act. No longer would immigrant women trying to escape abuse be allowed to get jobs while their cases are in process. “I have long supported helping DREAMers succeed in our country. Young people who are pursuing higher education or military service are contributing to our economy and our society and should be allowed to stay. In light of the House of Representatives’ inaction on this issue, I also asked the President earlier this year to consider expanding immigration enforcement guidelines to consider whether undocumented immigrants have close family members in the U.S. who are citizens, legal permanent residents, or DREAMers. I support steps within the confines of the law that focus resources on those who pose a threat to public safety, not separating families. “We are a nation of immigrants, and no matter where in the world we got our start, we all are looking for similar things: a good education, a safe place for our families, opportunity and work. The future of our economy depends on a pro-growth, efficient and fair immigration system. Now is the time to allow a vote on comprehensive immigration reform to create clear, legal pathways to legal residency for those who wish to come here and contribute to our nation,” Larsen said. ###
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that provides insufficient funding to care for thousands of children crossing the southern U.S. border and creates arbitrary and unworkable timelines for processing these children’s cases. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 5230, a piecemeal and counterproductive response to this border crisis. “The situation at the border requires sufficient funding for humanitarian care, resources for our immigration system to process the increased number of children, and support for border security and law enforcement. The border crisis underscores once again the urgent need to pass comprehensive immigration reform to create a clear, legal pathway for those who wish to come here and contribute to our nation. “This bill offers scant funding to address a serious humanitarian crisis and strips legal protections from children seeking help. It provides minimal funding to hire the judges needed to fairly decide these children’s cases, and it neglects resources like counsel for the children that would help the system work more efficiently. “Many of the children crossing our border from Central America say they left their home countries to escape violence, but this bill provides no funding to combat criminal gangs or support law enforcement in those countries. “The Trafficking Victims Protection Act is a Bush-era law to give people seeking protection in our country fair and humane treatment. Today’s bill changes the Bush-era trafficking law to reduce protections for these vulnerable children. Just because more children are seeking protection does not mean we should weaken their rights,” Larsen said. ###
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, sent a letter to Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx today asking for better investments in rail crossings to mitigate the impacts of increased rail traffic in the Pacific Northwest. Larsen’s letter follows a report released last week by the Puget Sound Regional Council that analyzed potential safety and traffic impacts of increased rail shipments through Northwest Washington, with a focus on the traffic resulting from the proposed Gateway Pacific Terminal in Whatcom County. “Moving goods and people safely and efficiently creates jobs and keeps our economy strong. Washington state’s trade in products from airplane parts to apples means we need a robust transportation system, including railways. “I have asked Secretary Foxx to invest in better rail crossings in Washington state because as our economy grows, our railways and roads are getting more congested. The PSRC report is a wake- up call that underscores the need for sustainable, long-term transportation investments,” Larsen said. Full text of the letter follows. July 31, 2014 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx, Last week the Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC), the designated Metropolitan Planning Organization for the Seattle area, released a report highlighting the potential safety and traffic impacts of increased rail shipments through Northwest Washington. They found that rail shipments are growing quickly, and that there could be serious impacts on my constituents and our economy. I ask that you work with me and my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to make investments to mitigate these impacts. Transportation infrastructure is the key to the economy in Washington state. Much of our economic activity is based on trade, making essential strong roads, bridges and rail to move our agricultural goods, high-tech equipment and airplane parts. According to PSRC, the value of goods moving through the ports of Everett, Seattle and Tacoma totaled more than $105 billion in 2012, including nearly $40 billion in exports. The growth of the Puget Sound comes with increased congestion on our roads and rails. PSRC found that additional construction of commodity export terminals in Northwest Washington could increase that congestion even more. While more economic activity is helping bring our unemployment levels down, it also creates new challenges for our transportation network and for safety. PSRC found that between $50 million and $200 million in rail crossing improvements may be needed to mitigate increasing volume on rail lines in Washington and lessen the wait times at rail crossings. Wait times could climb to 90 minutes at some crossings intensifying the economic implications and the difficulty for people and goods to move throughout my district. I am also concerned about the safety impacts of increased shipments of crude oil by rail through my district, and I thank you for your continuing work to improve the safety of those shipments. Last week’s report underscores the fact that we need to get to work on funding our national infrastructure needs, and soon. I look forward to working with you to make sure we meet the needs our growing economy demands. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives continued its failure to build the middle class today when it passed a bill to sue the President, said Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, who voted against this bill. H.Res. 676 gives the Speaker of the House authority to initiate an unlimited number of lawsuits on behalf of the House of Representatives. “House Republicans are wasting valuable time and taxpayer money on partisan games. Instead, we should be working to raise the federal minimum wage and fix our broken immigration system with comprehensive reform, efforts that would make a real difference for people in Northwest Washington and across the country. “People in the Pacific Northwest tell me they want better opportunities for their families, something that suing the President in no way accomplishes. Now that Republicans have given themselves power to sue the President, they have paved the way to squander even more resources on frivolous lawsuits instead of fighting for hardworking families. “My vote against this bill is a plea to end partisan gimmicks in Congress, and instead focus on creating jobs, helping the long-term unemployed and fixing our roads and bridges,” Larsen said. ###
07.30.2014	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) today with support from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The bill, H.R. 3230, the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014, is a final compromise between the House and Senate addressing changes to the VA’s practices regarding health care and education access. “This bill directs the VA to make needed reforms so veterans in the Pacific Northwest and across the country can get the health care they need in a timely way. Veterans will have a wider range of options for their care, and VA officials will be more accountable to provide that care in an appropriate amount of time. “As servicemembers end their time in the military, these women and men must be able to get both the health care and education they need to help them succeed in civilian life. That’s why I’m pleased this bill also allows veterans to get in-state tuition at public universities. “Veterans should be able to access the resources needed to fully participate in our economy and our democracy. This bill makes progress on those goals. “As a recent audit shows, scheduling practices at our local VA clinics need to improve. I will continue to monitor ongoing audits and talk with veterans in my district about their health care needs and experiences getting VA care,” Larsen said. The bill provides funding to allow veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility or those who have waited 30 days or more for an appointment to get care at a facility that serves the general public. The bill also provides funding for the VA to hire more doctors and medical staff, and makes it easier to fire senior leadership for poor performance. The Senate also must approve the bill. ###
07.28.2014	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives is expected to vote on a bill this week that would allow the Speaker of the House to sue the President, a move that wastes time, money and distracts from the priorities of the American people, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. H.Res. 676 would give the Speaker of the House authority to initiate an unlimited number of lawsuits on behalf of the House of Representatives. “When I talk to folks in Northwest Washington, they want good-paying jobs and opportunities like education for their families. That’s why I am fighting to raise the federal minimum wage, renew emergency unemployment insurance, help rein in student loan interest rates, and make critical investments in our transportation infrastructure to keep our economy moving. “But Republicans are standing firmly in the way of these important priorities for the people in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. Instead of creating jobs and helping hard working families, Republicans have decided to spend the last few precious legislative days this month suing the President. “Suing the President doesn’t bring relief to the millions of people who have been unemployed for months or years. It doesn’t fix our roads and bridges. And it doesn’t build the middle class with better wages. Instead, this partisan gimmick distracts from Congress’ ability to the make real and necessary change the American people want. “House Republicans already have wasted millions of taxpayer dollars on dozens of votes this year to repeal the Affordable Care Act, a law that is helping 20 million people access high quality health coverage. And they continue with other political stunts like partisan investigations into the attacks in Benghazi, Libya, when several bipartisan investigations have found no evidence of a cover-up. “This bill wastes time and money, and it fails the American people. When the House Republicans ask for a vote this week on authority to sue the President for whatever politically convenient purpose they come up with, I will vote no,” Larsen said. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued to press U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Navy officials today about the importance of a stronger icebreaking fleet and better coordination of Arctic policy at a hearing of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. “The race to secure interests in the Arctic is not slowing down, and it is past time the U.S. pays more attention to this region of the world. Today’s subcommittee hearing brought needed focus to the work we have to do to make sure the U.S. can compete. “At the hearing, I asked both the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Navy for a clearer picture of how they will carry out their Arctic missions. I agree with Chairman Hunter—we need less talk and more action when it comes to the Arctic. Without a commitment from the administration and Congress to increase our investment in infrastructure like icebreakers in the Arctic, our country will fall behind. “As the U.S. gears up the chair the Arctic Council starting next year, we need a more coordinated approach to ensure we can live up to our obligations as an Arctic nation. I have proposed establishing an ambassador level position for U.S. Arctic affairs, like every other Arctic nation. Countries like Russia and China recognize the strategic value of the Arctic. The U.S. must do the same,” Larsen said. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on Domestic Aviation Manufacturing: Challenges and Opportunities. The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing to discuss the state of domestic aviation manufacturing. The United States aviation industry is vital to the economy. Domestic aviation manufacturing—the reason we are here today—is one of the major reasons why the aviation industry in this country is such a powerful economic engine. In 2012, U.S. aviation manufacturing generated total output of over $150 billion. This topic hits close to home for me. In my home state of Washington, about 650 aerospace companies support as many as 209,000 jobs. These companies range from Boeing to the many small businesses that are a critical part of the aviation supply chain. Aerospace is the state’s largest exporting sector, accounting for over 40 percent of the state’s exports in 2011. The issues we are exploring today are ones we have explored before, and I thank Chairman LoBiondo for remaining focused on them. Last October, we had a subcommittee hearing about FAA's certification process, where we discussed opportunities to make these processes more efficient and to bring more consistency to FAA’s interpretations of regulations. I look forward to an update today about the FAA’s progress since that hearing. The predictable and timely certification of aircraft and aircraft components is critical for domestic manufacturers to get their products to market. We must also ensure FAA does not cut corners so it continues its critical mission of ensuring the highest level of safety. The FAA reauthorization enacted in 2012 included two provisions directing the agency to conduct an assessment of the aircraft certification and approval process (Section 312) and addressing FAA personnel’s inconsistent regulatory interpretation (Section 313). As we continue to conduct our oversight of FAA’s implementation of these provisions, I hope to learn more today about the progress FAA has made in these areas and where the agency’s efforts have stalled. Specifically, I hope to hear about how the labor unions and affected FAA inspectors and engineers have played a part in FAA’s efforts and if they have signed on to the agency’s certification reform efforts. Labor involvement is critical: FAA leadership can say one thing, but the people doing the day-to-day work need to be bought in before moving forward with major changes. We must also make sure the FAA has adequate staffing resources to do the job and keep pace with new technology. For example, I understand that the workload of FAA’s 204 manufacturing inspectors continues to increase while the size of its inspector workforce does not. There is no question that FAA must streamline the process under its Organization Designation Authorization (ODA) program because of the growing workload and limited resources. But we must continue to ensure that all certification efforts are subject to thorough, proper oversight so that the high level of safety that FAA maintains is not compromised. Another common theme that I continue to hear from manufacturers is that our neighbors abroad are unnecessarily delaying their validations of FAA-certified products. We must make sure other countries do not question FAA’s “gold standard” so that our manufacturers remain competitive in an increasingly crowded global market. More broadly, we must do everything possible to avoid disadvantaging U.S. manufacturers as they compete vigorously with foreign manufacturers. To this end, last year, Chairman LoBiondo and I asked GAO to explore the FAA’s certification process in the United States as it compares with those of its counterparts around the world. I look forward to reviewing GAO’s report when it is issued later this year. Global competitiveness depends on having a robust pipeline of well-trained, highly-skilled workers. A government-industry panel convened in 2010 by then-Secretary of Transportation LaHood recommended several measures to improve the training and development of the nation’s aerospace workforce. To speak to this issue, I would like to extend a special welcome to Dave Cox of the Air Washington project. The Air Washington project is a unique consortium of community colleges that are working together for the sole purpose of training and educating workers in a wide variety of aviation jobs such as aircraft maintenance, manufacturing and assembly. In Washington state, we’ve made investments in people that will keep our manufacturing base strong. I look forward to Mr. Cox sharing those lessons with the panel. Thank you and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today commended the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for releasing draft rules addressing the safe transport of crude oil by rail, but said there is more work to do to make sure communities are safe. He urged Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to continue prioritizing this issue to finalize the rules by the end of the year. DOT’s rules announced today cover standards for tank cars carrying crude and other hazardous materials, a classification and testing program for oil and ethanol, and new operational requirements such as speed limits for these trains. Larsen led other members of the Washington state Congressional delegation in asking for quick administrative action on tank car standards in a May letter. “New rules for transporting crude oil by rail are an important step toward making sure communities near rail lines that carry crude oil and other hazardous materials are safe. But now we’ve got to translate rules on paper into safety on the rails. “Getting the most dangerous tank cars off the rails is important, so I welcome DOT’s decision to require the phase out or retrofit of DOT-111 tank cars. The rule allows DOT-111 tank cars to be repurposed to carry less flammable materials. “I will continue working with my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and leadership at DOT to understand some of the proposed rules, including which of the three proposed tank car options proposed will improve safety in the most effective and timely way. “I also have questions for DOT about whether the one million gallon threshold set for notifying states about oil trains coming through their communities is the right level. And I want to learn more about the impact speed limits will have on traffic in Northwest Washington. “I urge interested citizens and stakeholders to take a look at the rules and participate in the 60-day public comment period. Public input will help make the rules stronger. Following public comment, I hope Secretary Foxx will continue to move quickly to finalize rules by the end of the year so communities are safer and shippers have more certainty about the way they need to move their products,” Larsen said. ###
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, commended the ongoing work of the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office today following the announcement that searchers had found the final victim of the State Route 530 mudslide. “Sheriff Trenary and the team of first responders at all levels, including volunteers, have worked diligently and compassionately in their search for the victims of the mudslide in Oso. I am in awe of this effort and I thank them for their tireless work. I know that all the families are appreciative of these efforts as well,” Larsen said. ###
07.18.2014	WASHINGTON—Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Suzan DelBene, WA-01, praised the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) announcement today that it will use its authority under the Clean Water Act to protect one of the world’s largest salmon fisheries in Bristol Bay, Alaska from the proposed Pebble Mine. The Bristol Bay salmon fishery supports thousands of jobs for Washington state fishers and processors. After three years of scientific study, the EPA announced in February that it would start a process to protect the bay because of the many risks it poses to salmon and their habitat. EPA now seeks public comment on its decision. In January, Larsen and DelBene, along with eight other Northwest lawmakers sent a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy calling for the agency to take these steps to protect Bristol Bay. Earlier this week, Larsen urged his colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to vote down a bill that would restrict the EPA’s ability to use the Clean Water Act to prevent environmentally harmful projects like the Pebble Mine from going forward. Larsen also urged the President last year to prevent mining development in Bristol Bay. “EPA’s careful look at the potential effects of the Pebble Mine concluded the risks to the world’s largest salmon fishery are far too great. Today’s decision is a major victory for the small business owners in Washington state who rely on the Bristol Bay fishery for their livelihoods and for a vibrant natural resource that can and should remain healthy for generations to come,” Larsen said. “The EPA’s announcement today is a critical step in protecting Bristol Bay from what would be an incredibly destructive mine. As I have said before, the fishery in Bristol Bay is too important to the economy of Washington state, to countless hardworking fishermen, and to thousands of jobs in the commercial fishing industry to be put at risk. Bristol Bay is unrivaled in its cultural, environmental, and economic significance and I’m pleased that the protection of this invaluable area continues to move forward,” DelBene said. ###
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, commended today’s news that Admiral Robert J. Papp, Jr. will be the new U.S. Special Representative for the Arctic. In the role, Papp will oversee efforts to advance U.S. interests in the Arctic region at the Arctic Council, which the United States will chair beginning next year. “The melting sea ice in the Arctic means the region is rapidly opening up for shipping, natural resources development and scientific discovery. But along with these opportunities come many environmental risks and safety challenges. The U.S. needs to protect its interests and work in coordination with the other seven Arctic nations. That means prioritizing Arctic policy, a step the State Department took today in appointing Admiral Papp to serve as Special Representative to the Arctic. “Admiral Papp recognizes the importance of the Arctic region. He supported refurbishing the Polar Star, one the country’s two heavy icebreakers. And he has a long history of service with the Coast Guard, which is responsible for the safety of our country’s maritime presence in the Arctic. As the former Ranking Member of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, I know that Admiral Papp is a great choice for this position. “Our country has more work to do to catch up with other Arctic nations, particularly when it comes to our anemic icebreaker fleet. And Congress should pass the legislation I introduced with Congressman Sensenbrenner to make this a full scale ambassadorial position. But I am pleased the administration has appointed such a strong Special Representative to the Arctic in Admiral Papp. I look forward to working with him in the months to come,” Larsen said. ###
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued to fight to protect Bristol Bay and Washington state’s fishing industry today by opposing a bill that would restrict the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ability to use the Clean Water Act to prevent environmentally harmful projects from going forward. The House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee considered H.R. 4854, the Regulatory Certainty Act, which would impact EPA’s ability to act on its determination that the Pebble Mine would threaten the health of Bristol Bay in Alaska. Larsen urged his colleagues to vote against the bill, though the committee passed the bill by a vote of 33-22. “When EPA announced its decision to halt the Pebble Mine near Bristol Bay, its action was based on three years of scientific study that concluded the mine would endanger the health of the world’s largest sockeye salmon fishery. “Thousands of Washington fishers and processors depend on this vibrant fishery. This year alone, fishers have caught more than 27 million sockeye and the season is still going strong. “Many of the fishers in these waters are small business owners who rely on this vital natural resource to make a living. These small businesses add up to major economic impact in Washington state, where the Bristol Bay Fishery supports 73,000 jobs. “Our small business owners should not have to fish under the shadow of having their livelihoods wiped out by a mine that science has told us could have devastating impacts. “I told my colleagues that if they pass this bill, they should enjoy eating sockeye now while it’s still available. I am disappointed this bill moved forward, and I will continue urging my colleagues to let the EPA do its job and protect Washington state’s fishing industry,” Larsen said. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON—The House passed a short-term Highway Trust Fund bill today with support from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, that would keep payments flowing to states for roads, bridges, highways and transit through May 2015. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. The fund is the primary source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit. The U.S. Department of Transportation recently announced it will begin slowing payments from the fund to states as of August 1 if Congress does not act. “This short-term injection of money to the Highway Trust Fund is good news for summer road construction season. It also means that the safety projects in Marysville and ferryboat maintenance in Northwest Washington will continue as planned. The fund provides critical investments in our roads, bridges, highways and transit that create jobs and keep our economy moving. “But using the MacGyver approach to patch the Highway Trust Fund with duct tape and some scrap metal is no way to support the number one job-creating industry in our country. Businesses need to be able to trust in reliable access to markets for more than eight months at a time, and citizens need long-term assurance of their safety during daily travel. “I voted for this patch because our economy depends on ongoing investments in strong infrastructure. But funding roads and bridges with a patchwork approach is only allowable if the time Congress has created for itself leads to a real, long-term solution. As a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am committed to working with my colleagues to find a way to put the fund on sustainable footing. Congress needs to get to work on a long-term, sustainable solution for the Highway Trust Fund,” Larsen said. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today supported a Constitutional Amendment that would overturn the Supreme Court’s Citizens United and McCutcheon campaign finance decisions. Larsen is an original cosponsor of H.J.Res 119. Larsen has long advocated for limiting money in politics and has spoken against the Supreme Court’s recent decisions that have granted too much ‘personhood’ to corporations. “Elections should give power to the people not to money. The Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision opened the door to unforeseen levels of corporate campaign spending in the form of Super PACs. Never before have the wealthy had such an outsized influence on elections. “This amendment gives Congress and states the power to determine reasonable limits on campaign spending, to distinguish between people and corporations, and it helps restore transparency to our elections. I look forward to a robust debate on this needed amendment to make sure elected officials represent people, not corporations,” Larsen said. The amendment is identical to one introduced by New Mexico Senator Tom Udall and passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee earlier this year. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today regarding the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) determinations about the causes of the Skagit River Bridge collapse on May 23, 2013. “The Skagit River Bridge collapse into the waters below last year dramatically severed a vital trade corridor for the Pacific Northwest and shook people’s confidence in the safety of their roadways. Since then, officials at all levels of government worked tirelessly to get traffic flowing again in less than a month. And now we have more answers through NTSB’s investigation about what happened to bring the bridge down and how we can prevent bridge collapses in the future. “The NTSB report is a reminder that safety is everyone’s responsibility. Local, state and federal governments need to keep working together to share information and make investments that will prevent our infrastructure from crumbling beneath us. “We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. That’s why I will continue to push to make sure our roads and bridges get the funding they need to be safe, reliable, and to keep our economy moving,” Larsen said. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the SAFE Bridges Act, which would provide $5.5 billion to repair structurally deficient bridges across the country. ###
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, pushed today to make sure veterans can access the health care and education they need. Larsen is cosponsoring a bill that would fix the long wait times veterans face when seeking care at Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) doctors’ offices across the country. The Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 allows veterans who live more than 40 miles from the nearest VA facility or those who have been unable to get an appointment scheduled to obtain health care with a private doctor. The bill also speeds up the VA hiring process to increase the number of medical professionals able to provide health care. Educational opportunities for veterans also would improve because of this bill. Veterans using the Post 9/11 GI Bill would get in-state tuition at public colleges and universities. “As veterans end their military service, Congress needs to make sure these women and men can get the health care and education they need to help them succeed in civilian life. Breaking down barriers so all people can fully participate in our economy and our democracy is one of my top priorities in Congress. Making progress on this goal means supporting the more than 75,000 veterans in my district and the millions more across the country by ensuring access to timely health care and affordable education. “This bill makes needed changes to the VA by giving veterans a wider range of options for their health care and holding the VA more accountable for providing that care in a timely way,” Larsen said. Larsen also recently voted in favor of bipartisan legislation to make it easier for the Secretary of the VA to remove senior staff and to help veterans facing long wait times at VA facilities get treated by other providers. These bills have passed both the House and Senate, and the two chambers are reconciling differences to develop a final bill. Larsen urged the members working on the conference committee to consider including three additional improvements to veterans’ health care and education: Improving access to fertility counseling and treatment for veterans and their spouses; Allowing the VA to share information about veterans’ education benefits with their college or university, which would improve educational institutions’ ability to provide student veterans with guidance about financial aid and class selection; and Expanding services available at Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs), including mental health and urgent care. “As Congress works to improve services that veterans receive, I have asked my colleagues to recognize that too many veterans are returning home with injuries that make conceiving children impossible without assistance. Veterans need to have access to advanced fertility treatment and adoption assistance so they can achieve their dreams of starting families. My Women Veterans and Other Health Care Improvements Act would help accomplish this. “I have also asked my colleagues to include a provision that will make it easier for colleges and universities to help veterans make decisions about their education. My Veterans Education Transparency Act would help make sure that veterans are not be saddled with unexpected tuition bills because schools have incomplete information about their GI benefits. “I recently met with a group of veterans’ service providers from Northwest Washington who told me veterans want the convenience of accessing more types of care at their local CBOC. I asked the conference committee to expand these services as we invest in the CBOC network. This is another example of how my constituents’ needs inform the work I do in Washington, D.C.,” Larsen said. Full text of the letter to the conferees is available here. ###
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON—House and Senate efforts to find a short-term fix to the Highway Trust Fund shortfall must lead to a long-term solution, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The fund is the primary source of federal funding for roads, bridges, highways and transit. The U.S. Department of Transportation recently announced it will begin slowing payments from the fund to states as of August 1 if Congress does not act. The Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee have each agreed on short-term proposals this week. The House is expected to vote on its measure next week. “Piecing together short-term funding for our roads, bridges, highways and transit is no way to sustain the number one job-creating industry in our country. While I support House and Senate efforts to find a short-term solution, this patchwork approach must lead to a long-term, sustainable solution for the Highway Trust Fund. Businesses need to be able to trust in reliable access to markets and citizens need to be assured of their safety during daily travel. “As a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am committed to working with my colleagues to find a way to put the fund on sustainable footing. I have pushed hard for roads, bridges, highways and transit investments that keep Northwest Washington moving, such as my bill to invest in transportation projects in small- and mid-sized cities and my support for better funding for safer bridges. I will continue to work on transportation solutions that put people back to work and help our region thrive,” Larsen said. ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02 cosponsored a bill today that would prevent companies from denying workers basic health care, including contraceptive coverage, based on religious beliefs. The Protect Women’s Health from Corporate Interference Act responds to the Supreme Court’s recent Burwell v. Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood v. Burwell decision. This decision exempted some corporations from complying with the contraceptive coverage requirement in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) because of religious beliefs. The Act prevents employers from denying health coverage to workers that is guaranteed under federal law. It also states that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act and other federal laws do not allow employers to refuse health coverage afforded to workers through the ACA. The Act maintains contraception coverage exemptions for houses of worship and religious nonprofit groups. “The Affordable Care Act was a historic step forward that is helping 20 million people access high quality health coverage. And it guarantees coverage of critical preventive care. I am committed to making sure Congress keeps the promise we made to the American people when we passed this law. That means ensuring women can make health care decisions for themselves and their families, not because of their employers’ religious beliefs. “The Supreme Court has bestowed too much ‘personhood’ on corporations lately with its campaign finance decisions that have given the wealthiest individuals an outsized influence on elections. Now it has wrongly afforded for-profit companies’ religious beliefs a higher priority than women’s ability to control their health care. This bill will make sure employers’ personal beliefs do not interfere with workers’ access to basic health care,” Larsen said. ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his efforts today to improve safety at refineries and chemical facilities following the April 2010 explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes that killed seven workers. Larsen sent a letter to President Obama asking him to take action to strengthen safety standards and culture at these facilities. The letter follows the release of a report from the President’s Chemical Facility Safety and Security working group that includes recommendations to make working conditions safer at chemical facilities. “What happened at the Anacortes refinery should never happen again. The women and men who work in refineries and other facilities that process hazardous materials should be assured of the safest working conditions possible. The administration has conducted its own research about safety at these facilities, and I have asked the President to take quick action to put his working group’s recommendations in place,” Larsen said. Larsen outlined the changes he is advocating for to make refineries safer in a recent column in the Skagit Valley Herald. Those changes include stricter safety standards and technology, improved industry standards, and reforms to the Chemical Safety Board. Full text of the letter follows. July 10, 2014 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20050 Dear President Obama: I appreciated the recent release of your administration’s report on Executive Order 13650, Actions to Improve Chemical Facility Safety and Security – A Shared Commitment. I ask that you use the recommendations in this report to quickly propose strong new rules to protect workers in refineries and other chemical facilities. In April 2010, an explosion killed seven people at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes, Washington, a part of my district. Subsequent investigations by the Washington State Department of Labor and Industry, the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, and Tesoro itself have all indicated that this explosion was not inevitable and could have been prevented with stronger safety standards and culture. I am hopeful that the report produced by your Executive Order can lead to these improved standards and increased safety at chemical facilities. One positive step would be requiring inherently safer technology (IST) in chemical facilities, using the authority granted to the Environmental Protection Agency under Section 112(r)(1) of the Clean Air Act. My understanding is that IST could prevent many chemical facility accidents. I also urge you to improve and strengthen existing process safety management (PSM) standards. This should include input from workers, pre-startup safety reviews when repairs are done, clearer safety instructions, and better emergency response planning. You should also consider stronger protections for workers who believe safety is compromised to issue stop work orders under risk management plans. People on the ground are often the first to be in danger, and can provide the kind of quick action necessary to avoid accidents. Thank you for your continued leadership to improve safety at chemical facilities. I look forward to working with you to prevent tragedies like the Anacortes explosion in the future. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Major upgrades to the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal, a project Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has worked on for more than a decade, is expected to get an additional $12 million from the Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC). The council’s Transportation Policy Board recommended $12 million for the project during its meeting today. Final approval for the funds will come later this year, following a public comment period and an air quality assessment. The PSRC funds come from the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration. The state legislature has identified nearly $117 million in funding for the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal project, including $30 million in federal funding, according to the state Department of Transportation. The Mukilteo Multimodal Ferry Terminal project will help reduce congestion through Mukilteo and on State Route 525. The project includes a new passenger terminal building with pedestrian, bicycle and high-occupancy vehicle loading, better commuter rail connections, and a bus transit center. Larsen worked for more than 10 years with local, state and federal stakeholders to transfer the property for the new terminal from the Air Force to the Port of Everett. The transfer was completed last fall. Larsen also has advocated for federal funding for the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal, including in spending bills in 2007 and 2009. “People in Northwest Washington understand that ferries are an extension of our highway system. That’s why I have pushed since I was first elected to make sure Mukilteo gets a world-class multimodal facility. It is great news that the Puget Sound Regional Council will consider providing $12 million to fund the much-needed updates to the ferry terminal. “Investing in transportation, like the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal, creates jobs and keeps our economy moving. This project highlights that federal, state and private stakeholders can work together to make needed improvements to our transportation infrastructure. It is also a reminder to my colleagues in Congress that federal transportation funding should be a top priority because it puts people to work and is a foundation of economic growth,” Larsen said. ###
07.09.2014	WASHINGTON—Better opportunities for job training and adult education will prepare more people to succeed in today’s economy because of a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, supported and the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 415-6. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act improves workforce development and job training programs by updating them to align with the needs of today’s employers. These changes will help those who are underemployed and long-term unemployed with training and job searches, as well as improving adult education and literacy. The Act replaces the Workforce Investment Act, which expired in 2003. The new Act passed the Senate by a vote of 95-3 on June 25. Senator Patty Murray of Washington authored that bill. The Act now heads to the President for signature. “Workforce development programs have a long and diverse history of success in Northwest Washington. For example, the Northwest Workforce Development Council connected long-term unemployed with a machining course and on-the-job training that helped job seekers find mid-level jobs with earnings 20 percent above entry level. And the Workforce Development Council of Snohomish County has increased high school and GED credentials for youth who have dropped out of school or are at risk of doing so. “These examples from my district illustrate that our country’s workforce development programs are a critical resource for those seeking jobs and new skills. But these resources need to keep up with the demands of today’s economy, especially because there are more than 3 million people dealing with long-term unemployment. This bill will allow our counties and states more flexibility to better address the regional needs of job seekers and employers. “Investing in long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity means making sure businesses in the Pacific Northwest and across the country can hire workers with the right skills to get the job done. This bill helps achieve that goal by connecting those looking for work with relevant, customized training. And it recognizes the importance of basic literacy for adults to succeed in today’s job market. I am also pleased the bill continues the Job Corps program, which connects young people and veterans to higher education and jobs. “Senator Murray deserves applause for her leadership of this overdue modernization of our country’s workforce development system,” Larsen said. ###
07.03.2014	WASHINGTON—A veterans health care issue that an Island County service member asked Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, for help changing last year is moving forward in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA announced it will update the Veterans Affairs Schedule for Rating Disabilities (VASRD) based on current medical standards, with rules set to be finalized by the fall of 2016. Larsen successfully included language in the FY2014 VA funding bill that directs the VA to revise the VASRD according to up-to-date, medically accurate standards. Larsen pushed for the change after a constituent wrote to him in March 2013 to share the discrepancy between the disability rating she received for her fibromyalgia and current medical assessments. “Constituents play a critical role in helping me understand how well government is—or isn’t—working for the people of Northwest Washington. Thanks to this letter, veterans health care benefits will be consistent with the best medical information, as should be the case. This is a perfect example of how constituent voices guide my actions,” Larsen said. ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON—Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and John Garamendi, CA-03, today asked the Coast Guard to reactivate the Polar Sea icebreaker in a letter to Commandant Paul Zukunft. The U.S. currently does not have the icebreakers it needs to meet its responsibilities in the Arctic. Putting the Polar Sea back into service would better enable the U.S. to secure its national security, environmental and economic interests in the region. “While the successful reactivation of the Polar Star has improved Coast Guard icebreaking capabilities, it is clear that additional resources are needed. The Polar Star has projected future service life of only seven to ten years, ending around the time a new icebreaker could come into service. Reactivating the Polar Sea could bridge the gap between permanent retirement of the Polar Star and the activation of a new icebreaker by 2022,” write Larsen and Garamendi. “We urge you to consider the reactivation of the Polar Sea quickly, so that your agency’s views on this matter can be taken into account during Congressional consideration of reauthorization legislation.” Larsen has been a leading voice in Congress calling for the U.S. to pay more attention to the Arctic. He has advocated for better icebreaking capability and introduced a bill to create an Arctic Ambassador. Garamendi, the current Ranking Democrat Member on the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, has fought to raise awareness of the imperative to recapitalize as quickly as possible the Coast Guard’s aged fleets of offshore cutters, including the recapitalization of its icebreaker fleet, to address the onset of maritime commerce above the Arctic Circle and bridge likely future gaps in the Coast Guard’s operational capabilities. Full text of the letter follows. June 26, 2014 Admiral Paul F. Zukunft Commandant United States Coast Guard 2100 2nd St. SW, Stop 7000 Washington, DC 20593 Dear Admiral Zukunft: Congratulations on your appointment last month as the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard. As you begin your tenure as Commandant, we want to highlight the need for reinvestment in the Coast Guard’s icebreaker fleet, including reactivation of the Polar Sea. As the Coast Guard’s May 2013 Arctic Strategy document indicates, your agency will be tasked with new responsibilities in the Arctic and currently lacks the resources to meet those responsibilities. Further, the Coast Guard’s High Latitude Study in 2011 indicated a need for at least three medium duty and three heavy duty icebreakers. While the successful reactivation of the Polar Star has improved Coast Guard icebreaking capabilities, it is clear that additional resources are needed. The Polar Star has projected future service life of only seven to ten years, ending around the time a new icebreaker could come into service. Reactivating the Polar Sea could bridge the gap between permanent retirement of the Polar Star and the activation of a new icebreaker by 2022, giving our country at least two active heavy duty icebreakers during this period and important backup capabilities should the Polar Star need unscheduled repair. As you are aware, Congress continues to consider annual Coast Guard reauthorization legislation. Our understanding is that the draft Senate reauthorization bill contains funding for reactivation of the Polar Sea, while the House of Representative bill passed earlier this year does not. Your support for reactivation of the Polar Sea could help make the case for funding as a conference agreement is worked out between the two houses. We urge you to consider the reactivation of the Polar Sea quickly, so that your agency’s views on this matter can be taken into account during Congressional consideration of reauthorization legislation. Congratulations again on your new position. We look forward to working with you to ensure the Coast Guard has the resources necessary to meet its many missions in the Arctic and throughout the world. Sincerely, Rick Larsen John Garamendi Member of Congress Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District California, 3rd District ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Representatives Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Don Young, AK, announced they will introduce bipartisan legislation to fight child hunger by expanding access to summer meal programs for kids. The Summer Meals Act of 2014 works to improve communities’ ability to serve nutritious meals to kids in need by expanding eligibility requirements for federal summer meal programs, cutting down on red tape for local organizations serving summer meals to kids, and making meals and snacks more readily available during weekends and after school hours. The bill also supports transportation in rural areas where it is often more difficult for kids to participate in summer meal programs. “All kids should have access to regular, healthy meals regardless of the season. But food insecurity is a persistent problem. In my district, nearly one in six people suffers from food insecurity,” Congressman Larsen said. “This bill will make sure communities that are home to a significant number of low-income children can participate in federal summer meal programs. And it will expand kids’ access to meals and snacks during times they are most vulnerable to hunger – summer, weekends and after school hours. I am pleased to work with Rep. Young and our colleagues in the Senate in a bipartisan way to make sure our kids get enough to eat every day.” “I am proud to introduce the Summer Meals Act, a bipartisan effort to give kids throughout Alaska and the nation better access to meals during the summer,” Congressman Young said. “Current federal regulations are forcing Alaskan non-profits and faith-based organizations to waste vital resources and funding to meet duplicative and unnecessary standards when administering various child nutrition programs. My bill would eliminate this bureaucracy and increase the impact of summer meal programs in rural areas and across the country. As a former teacher, I know that these types of programs genuinely help kids maintain their academic progress throughout the summer months, and this legislation works to ensure that more students start the school year healthy and ready to learn.” Organizations that provide summer meals are lining up in favor of the bill. “This bill will improve access to nutritious food for thousands of low-income children in our state, and lift many of the significant administrative challenges Food Lifeline encounters when operating our Kids Cafe summer and afterschool meals program,” said Gina Clark, director of public policy for Food Lifeline, a Seattle-based organization that provides 82,000 meals a day to local food assistance programs throughout Western Washington state. “It’s a smart bill that supports hard working families, improves efficiencies and reduces logistical barriers that prevent many children, particularly in underserved and rural communities, from getting the food they need to stay healthy and thrive.” "This bill will help feed even more hungry kids, especially in rural Alaska,” said Mary Sullivan, director of advocacy and public policy for the Food Bank of Alaska. “That's the bottom line for us, getting kids more access to the nutrition they need to grow, learn, and achieve in life as productive members of our communities. It all starts with simply having enough to eat, and we are thrilled Congressman Young is sponsoring this important legislation that will help kids get the food they need." Larsen has long supported improving the federal summer meals program. He introduced the Ensuring All Students Year-round (EASY) Access to Meals and Snacks Act in 2010, provisions of which are included in the Summer Meals Act of 2014. Senators Kristen Gillibrand (D-NY) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) introduced a companion bill earlier this week. A fact sheet about the bill is available here. Full text is available here. ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cosponsored a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, continuing his leadership to make sure companies have access to critical financing through the bank to sell their goods overseas. The Protect American Jobs and Exports Act of 2014 reauthorizes the bank for 7 years and raises its lending cap by $5 billion each year, to a total of $175 billion. The bank’s charter is set to expire on September 30, 2014. “This bill will help keep America open for business and I am pleased to work again to ensure our manufacturers have access to the financing they need to get their goods to market abroad,” Larsen said. Larsen voiced his support to take action on a bill to reauthorize the Export-Import bank earlier today. Rep. Denny Heck, WA-10, introduced the reauthorization bill. ###
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his leadership on the Export-Import Bank today by announcing he will be an original cosponsor and leading advocate for a bill to reauthorize the bank, which is a critical tool to finance U.S. companies’ exports. Larsen introduced and successfully advocated for passage of a bill to reauthorize and expand the Export-Import Bank in 2012. In Washington’s second Congressional district, the Export-Import Bank has supported more than $55 billion in exports since 2007. These exports have come from 14 companies, including 9 small businesses like Vista Clara Inc. “The Export-Import Bank is without question an essential tool to keep America open for business. In my district, the bank supports thousands of jobs at companies of all sizes by helping these businesses sell their products overseas. From large manufacturers to small- and medium-sized businesses seeking to expand their presence abroad, the bank creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. And the bank successfully finances billions of dollars of exports without costing taxpayers a dime. “I led the push to reauthorize and expand the bank in 2012 and will again fight to make sure U.S. businesses have the financing they need to sell their goods around the world. Letting the Export-Import Bank expire would be irresponsible and would damage our country’s fragile economic recovery. It is time for Congress to step up and make sure our companies of all sizes have the financing they need to sell their products overseas,” Larsen said. Since 2007, the Export-Import Bank has financed more than $230 billion in U.S. exports. In 2012 and 2013, the bank returned $1.1 billion to the U.S. Treasury. ###
06.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for and the House of Representatives passed the FY2015 defense funding bill that contains provisions to strengthen the Northwest economy and improve national defense. The bill includes full funding for a number of programs Larsen has advocated for, including the KC-46A tanker. “Northwest Washington is home to some of the country’s preeminent Navy bases, as well as the best aerospace workers in the world. This bill invests in both by funding aircraft that will be built in the Pacific Northwest and will help the military fulfill its missions,” Larsen said. Larsen pushed for full funding of the tanker in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015, a bill that sets forth policy authority for defense programs. The appropriations bill is the next step in the funding process. The defense funding bill includes funding for several programs in Northwest Washington: · Full funding ($2 billion) for the P-8A Poseidon program. The Navy recently decided to base six P-8A squadrons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. · Funding ($1 billion) for 12 EA-18G Growler aircraft. · Full funding ($1.583 billion) for seven KC-46A refueling tankers. Boeing’s Everett factory is building the KC-46A. The bill also includes funding to reduce and prevent sexual assault in the military. Language in the bill calls for military leadership to make more of a commitment to stop sexual assault. The President’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response program received $275 million, $50 million above last year’s level. “Sexual assault is unacceptable in all circumstances. This bill makes progress toward ending sexual violence in the military, but there is more to do. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to make sure the Pentagon can successfully put in place a zero-tolerance policy for sexual assault,” Larsen said. Amendments to the bill addressed intelligence surveillance, as well as considerations of the U.S. role in Iraq and Afghanistan. Larsen supported an amendment reforming the National Security Agency’s surveillance practices. The amendment, which the House passed, prevents the NSA from conducting “backdoor searches” of foreign intelligence for Americans’ communications. Larsen has been an advocate for NSA surveillance reform. “NSA surveillance practices need to come out into the light so the American public knows what data the government collects. Closing this loophole is a step in the right direction,” Larsen said. In two votes, Larsen pushed to prevent defense funding for combat operations in Iraq, in light of escalating conflict in the country between Sunnis and Shia. “Solutions to the fighting in Iraq will not come from more war, but instead from systemic and long-term political change. Any actions the U.S. takes in Iraq must be consistent with our goal of creating a government that all Iraqis see as their own,” Larsen said. The House ultimately voted down both amendments prohibiting funding for Iraq combat operations. Larsen also voted in favor of ending funding for combat operations in Afghanistan after December 31, 2014. While the amendment failed, Larsen’s vote was another in a series to wind down combat in Afghanistan. “It is time to transition security efforts to the Afghan people. I am disappointed the House failed to pass an amendment that would have required us to have a needed debate about our continued mission in Afghanistan,” Larsen said. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, pushed today to make college more affordable for students in Northwest Washington and across the country. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the Middle Class CHANCE Act, a bill introduced today that strengthens the Pell Grant program, which provides tuition assistance to students based on need. The Act increases the maximum Pell Grant award, restores year-round Pell Grants, and allows Pell recipients to access the grants for 15 semesters instead of the current 12. “We need to be telling our students that America will invest in them. I have long supported Pell Grants as an essential way to help students finance their educations. These grants are helping nearly 13,000 students in my district this school year. “Expanding higher education opportunities helps build a stronger foundation for long-term economic growth and opportunity in Northwest Washington. The Middle Class CHANCE Act affirms our commitment to making higher education more accessible to the next generation of teachers, engineers, business leaders, and scientists,” Larsen said. The Act would: Increase the individual maximum Pell Grant award by $4,040, making the new maximum award to $8,900; Restore year-round Pell Grants, allowing students to receive additional Pell dollars for courses taken during the summer or intersession; and Allow Pell Grant recipients to use the awards for 15 semesters instead of the current 12. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, called again for reform at the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) today after a new report from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform underscored ongoing mismanagement at the agency. Larsen advocated for new leadership at CSB in a recent editorial in the Skagit Valley Herald, following the delayed release of the agency’s final report about the explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes. “This new report furthers the case for new leadership at CSB. It finds that the Anacortes investigation was severely delayed as a result of mismanagement by senior leadership at the agency. The many months of extra time it took for the Anacortes community to get answers is unacceptable. “CSB needs new leadership and it needs to fill the many empty positions that are hurting the agency’s ability to perform its mission. I look forward to working with my colleagues to put CSB back on the right track,” Larsen said. ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on “Airport Financing and Development.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing about “Airport Financing and Development.” In 2013, the U.S. saw over 730 million passengers travel through its airports. By 2027, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) forecasts the number of annual domestic and international air passengers in the U.S. will reach 1 billion. Forecasts of increasing air travel may seem encouraging for the economy, but without adequate investment, passengers may experience more congestion and delays and our country may lose economic opportunities. In a recent study, the U.S. Travel Association found that one in five of the nation’s major airports currently experiences Thanksgiving-type levels of congestion at least once a week. Unless airports add capacity, 24 of the nation’s top 30 airports will reach these levels of congestion within the next 5 years. There are real dollar figures associated with the economic losses that will occur if our airports cannot accommodate this increased future travel. One study by the ENO Center for Transportation estimates that in 2016 alone, the U.S. economy will lose out on over $6 billion in travel spending because of capacity constraints at just 2 airports (John F. Kennedy International Airport and Newark International Airports). By 2034, the Center estimates this figure will reach $48 billion annually. We cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. Our nation’s airports are critical economic drivers and gateways that connect travelers all over the globe to the United States. They also connect our own local communities to each other across the nation. We must continue to invest in our infrastructure to remain economically competitive. At the same time, we need to make sure that we do not over tax and overburden the aviation industry and passengers. Congress has long recognized a federal role with respect to investing in our aviation infrastructure. Two important ways the federal government supports the development of airports include the Airport Improvement Program (AIP) and Passenger Facility Charges (PFCs). The FAA estimates there are $42.5 billion in AIP-eligible airport capital projects needing investment over the next 5 years (or $8.5 billion annually). And a leading industry airport association estimates capital need at $71.3 billion over the next 5 years (or $14.3 billion annually) for both AIP-eligible and non AIP-eligible airport projects. The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 authorized annual AIP funds for $3.35 billion annually through 2015. However, even with airports’ ability to raise revenue through PFCs, there is a significant gap between the available funding and the investment needed for these critical safety and capacity projects. As we prepare to reauthorize the FAA next year, this hearing is an opportunity for us to explore the issues facing our nation’s airports. This includes examining the current needs of our airports, how the industry is financing capital development with its limited resources, and the federal government’s role to ensure adequate investment. This is no small task. There are more than 19,000 airports in the United States. And nearly 3,400 of those airports are designated by FAA as part of the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS), making them eligible for federal funds. These airports range from large hubs with commercial service to small general aviation airports. We have one of the greatest aviation systems in the world. Whether large or small, airports across the country have a documented economic impact on their communities as well as the ability to connect people, goods and services. In my home state of Washington, my constituents rely on airports of all sizes. In my hometown of Arlington, general aviation at Arlington Municipal Airport is hugely important, and the annual fly-in there brings in people from across the country. Bellingham International Airport in Northwest Washington is a developing commercial airport and has seen double-digit growth in recent years, requiring further investments in terminal and operations infrastructure. My constituents also rely on Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, one of the major hubs in our country’s aviation network. I’m pleased that Mark Reis from Sea-Tac is with us today. Each of these airports plays a different, yet important role in serving the local community and the national aviation network. As this committee considers airport funding, we need to encourage investment at airports large and small. Mr. Chairman, as we recently discussed at our hearing regarding small community air service, maintaining a national air transportation system will require a sustained federal commitment. I look forward to hearing from our witnesses today about the status of our airport infrastructure and ideas for continued investment now and into the future. Thank you and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses. ###
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County announced that the Arlington School District has received $9,090 through a federal Project SERV grant to help offset costs the district incurred after the State Route 530 mudslide in March. The Project SERV grant will help the school district cover the costs of substitute teachers who stood in for classroom staff while they received counseling, as well as additional transportation costs such as extra bus service that the school district incurred as a result of damage to the roads. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) wrote a May 30 letter to the U.S. Department of Education supporting the district’s application for the grant. “This grant goes a long way toward helping the Arlington School District deal with the challenges faced by staff and students after the March 22 tragedy,” the four delegation members said. “In the immediate aftermath of the landslide, the people of Arlington came together to provide whatever support necessary to keep schools running. This grant will help reimburse the district for the costs incurred during this unimaginable tragedy. We appreciate the vital assistance this grant provides to Arlington schools as students and staff work to recover as a community.” Project SERV (School Emergency Response to Violence) grants, issued through the Department of Education, provide short- and long- term education-related services for local schools and institutions of higher education to help recover from a violent or traumatic event in which the learning environment has been disrupted. Below is the text from the delegation’s May 30 letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan. Dear Secretary Duncan, As you know, on March 22, the residents of our state experienced a horrible tragedy. Forty-three Washingtonians lost their lives when a landslide struck the town of Oso, and an entire neighborhood was destroyed. The slurry created by the landslide has made it difficult for search teams to fully explore the wreckage, leaving the community in a state of constant uncertainty. The area’s transit infrastructure has also been seriously damaged as State Highway 530, a crucial route through the isolated region, is covered with up to 70 feet of debris. The landslide has presented considerable challenges for the local school districts of Darrington and Arlington. Oso children attended both districts and each has students among the missing or dead. These districts are rightfully very concerned about the long-term mental health impacts of the trauma experienced by their students, faculty, and staff. Transportation is another significant problem, as seven Darrington teachers who reside in Arlington saw the slide wash away their only reasonable route to their work, while nine Darrington students enrolled in a part-time program at the Sno-Isle Skills Center in Everett are now struggling to attend class. In response to this tragedy, we would like to offer our strong support for the Project SERV grant applications submitted by the Darrington and Arlington School Districts. We believe these flexible funding streams will offer vital assistance to the districts in stabilizing their school learning environments, and helping their students and communities recover in the aftermath of the landslide. Establishing a sense of normalcy for the students in these communities must be a priority during this difficult time. The Washington delegation appreciates the assistance and communication that the Department of Education has provided thus far. Particularly in light of the major disaster declaration issued by President Obama, it is our hope and expectation that the Department will continue to work expeditiously to provide the Darrington and Arlington School Districts with the support they urgently need. We look forward to continuing to partner with you as these communities begin to recover and rebuild in the weeks, months, and years to come. ###
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representative Derek Kilmer (WA-06) led a letter with members of the Washington state delegation to British Columbia Premier Christy Clark calling for an end to the dumping of raw sewage from Canada into the Strait of Juan de Fuca. Recently, the government of British Columbia decided not to move forward with a sewage treatment plant in the Victoria region at McLoughlin Point. The Victoria area, home to 300,000 people, has pumped effluent into the waters across from Washington state for years. The treatment facility was supposed to be completed by 2018 until the local Canadian government decided to table the site. The members pointed out the risks to fisheries, businesses, and healthy waters in their letter and that Canada must develop a new plan in a timely manner. “We urge you to work with your colleagues at the local and federal level to find an agreeable solution so that an appropriate treatment facility is completed as soon as possible,” the members wrote in the letter sent today. “The strength of our economies in the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia depends on the health of our waterways and natural resources. Washington state supports more than 67,000 commercial fishing jobs, in addition to our vibrant recreational fishing, boating, watersport, and tourism businesses. The practice of discharging this type and volume of waste violates environmental standards commonly held by our two nations.” The letter was signed by Kilmer, Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), Representative Denny Heck (WA-10), Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Representative Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Representative Adam Smith (WA-09). The full text of the letter follows. June 13, 2014 The Honorable Christy Clark M.L.A., Westside - Kelowna Premier of British Columbia PO Box 9041, Stn Prov Govt Victoria, BC V8W9E1 Dear Premier Clark: We are very disappointed to learn that the development of a new sewage treatment facility at McLoughlin Point has been delayed. For the last 20 years, American citizens have waited for solutions to water quality issues linked to British Columbia’s sewage discharge. Unfortunately, while Canada has acknowledged the importance of addressing this concern, there is now no plan to mitigate the persistent water pollution from Victoria, British Columbia. As you know, more than 82 million liters of effluent without secondary treatment is being dumped into our shared waters in the Strait of Juan de Fuca every day. This type of pollution is not only detrimental to ecosystem vitality, but also can have dire human health consequences. This is simply unacceptable. We urge you to work with your colleagues at the local and federal level to find an agreeable solution so that an appropriate treatment facility is completed as soon as possible. The strength of our economies in the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia depends on the health of our waterways and natural resources. Washington state supports more than 67,000 commercial fishing jobs, in addition to our vibrant recreational fishing, boating, watersport, and tourism businesses. The practice of discharging this type and volume of waste violates environmental standards commonly held by our two nations. Furthermore, while significant treatment efforts have been made on the United States side of our maritime border, the effectiveness of these efforts is undermined without cross-border collaboration, treatment, and restoration activities. In fact, scientists in both of our home countries have seen perpetually decreasing dissolved oxygen levels in our waters—an outcome linked with untreated sewage discharge. These changing dissolved oxygen levels endanger sensitive aquatic habitats vital to the Puget Sound’s marine economy. Together, we must work to ensure that we have adequate wastewater treatment facilities so that we can improve dissolved oxygen levels and the overall water quality in the Salish Sea to protect human health and the marine ecosystem. Our countries have worked hard to coordinate international collaboration on major environmental problems in the past and we hope to work together to solve this problem. Since its inception in 2003, the U.S. and Canada have established the largest, most comprehensive ecosystem conference in the region – the biennial Salish Sea Ecosystem Conference. This conference is a great example of how the U.S. and British Columbia have collaborated to bring together experts from interdisciplinary fields to discuss scientific research and chart a course for protecting and restoring the Salish Sea ecosystem. The Salish Sea is an economic and cultural lifeline for the Pacific Northwest and British Columbia. In fact, Washington state’s maritime economy supports 30 billion dollars in economic activity each year and provides 148,000 jobs. Due to the importance of these waters to both our countries, we ask that you work promptly to resolve this issue. Furthermore, as we continue to work towards restoring the Salish Sea for generations to come, we welcome ongoing collaboration on restoration, research and preservation efforts to best serve our people and our waterways. We hope you will stand with us as we work to improve the quality of our waters and reduce unnecessary pollution. Sincerely, _____________________________ _____________________________ DEREK KILMER MARIA CANTWELL Member of Congress U.S. Senator _____________________________ _____________________________ PATTY MURRAY RICK LARSEN U.S. Senator Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ DENNY HECK SUZAN DELBENE Member of Congress Member of Congress _____________________________ _____________________________ JIM MCDERMOTT ADAM SMITH Member of Congress Member of Congress cc: The Right Honorable Stephen Harper, Prime Minister The Honorable John Baird, Minister of Foreign Affairs His Excellency Gary Doer, Ambassador of Canada to the United States The Honorable Leona Aglukkaq, Minister of the Environment The Honorable Bruce Heyman, American Ambassador to Canada The Honorable Barbara Desjardins, Mayor of the Town of Esquimalt The Honorable John Kerry, Secretary of State The Honorable Penny Pritzker, Secretary of Commerce The Honorable Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency The Honorable Kathryn Sullivan, Undersecretary of Oceans and Atmosphere # # #
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted against a spending bill today that severely underfunds investments in critical transportation infrastructure. The House passed the FY2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill by a vote of 229-192. “Tonight the House passed a bill that does not go far enough to invest in our country’s roads, bridges, highways and transit. “This bill falls short in keeping safe communities near rail lines carrying crude oil. The $12 million for the Federal Railroad Administration is a start but it is not enough. Congress can and should invest more to ensure communities are safe. Crude oil train derailments across the continent in recent weeks and months underscore the pressing urgency of making sure our railways are well maintained, our first responders are trained, and safety standards are clear and strong. “I am also disappointed this bill does not fund upgrades to bridges. We need to maintain our bridges until they are old, and then we need to replace them, like I have called for in my SAFE Bridges Act. “The bill also makes shortsighted cuts to passenger rail, an essential part of our country’s transportation system. And it cuts opportunities for communities to fund new transportation projects through TIGER grants while ignoring the small and mid-sized cities my TIGER CUBS bill would support. “On the housing side, I am pleased the bill fully funds support for veterans facing homelessness. We owe it to the women and men who have served our country to have access to affordable housing assistance,” Larsen said. Provisions of note from the bill are below. Transportation - Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grants funded at $100 million, which is $500 million less than FY 2014 and $1.15 billion less than the president’s request. - Federal Aviation Administration funded at $15.7 billion. - Amtrak funding cut by $200 million, to $1.2 billion. Rail Safety - $12 million for the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to hire additional staff to monitor safe transportation of energy products like crude oil and to make safety upgrades at rail crossings. - Funding for the Pipeline & Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s hazardous materials account: $52 million. Investment will support the agency’s existing hazardous materials safety program and fund additional research, training and outreach related to safe transportation of oil and gas. - Funding for FRA safety and operations: $185 million. Housing - Full funding for the Veterans’ Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) program: $75 million. The HUD-VASH program provides housing and supportive services for homeless and struggling veterans. This funding has gone to veterans in Snohomish and Skagit counties in recent years. - The HOME Investment Partnership is cut by 30 percent, to $700 million. The program provides state and local governments grants for programs that meet local needs to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families. This funding has supported affordable housing in Whatcom County in recent years. ###
06.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today regarding the Navy’s decision to base six P-8A squadrons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. The Navy’s Record of Decision finalizes the preferred option laid out in the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement released in April. “The Navy’s decision today signifies the prominent role that NAS Whidbey Island plays for maritime patrol and other naval operations in the Pacific. Basing six squadrons of P-8As on the island is great news for the stability of the base, for the Whidbey Island community and for our national security. “I have been a determined advocate to bring the P-8As to Whidbey Island. They will serve a critical role in our country’s pivot to the Asia-Pacific region as a focus for security and economic interests. I am pleased the Navy has once again shown its commitment to NAS Whidbey Island,” Larsen said. In its decision, the Navy weighed “public comments, as well as strategy, operational, and environmental effects.” Information about the Navy’s P-8A Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement is available here. The Record of Decision is available here. ###
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement regarding the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki. Shinseki resigned after an interim independent report by the VA Inspector General confirmed that employees at the Phoenix, Ariz. VA Health Care System used inappropriate scheduling practices to hide how long veterans waited to receive care. “General Shinseki served our country in the Vietnam War and knows what it is like to be a veteran. That is why he was appointed as Secretary of the VA. I know he is angry about the falsified waiting lists and length of time our veterans were forced to wait for health care. “While I believe General Shinseki could have made progress toward eliminating deceitful scheduling practices and reducing patient wait times, the country needs to shift its focus to providing our veterans with timely health care. Congress also has the responsibility to fix these problems that have been raised several times in recent years by the VA Inspector General. My primary concern is that veterans who served our nation honorably get access to the timely care they deserve,” Larsen said. ###
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today sent a letter to the chairman and ranking member of the House Committee on Financial Services requesting a hearing on the Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights, a bill Larsen introduced earlier this month. The bill is designed to protect private student loan borrowers from “auto-defaults” when a loan cosigner, often a parent or grandparent, dies or files for bankruptcy. Full text of the letter follows. May 29, 2014 The Honorable Jeb Hensarling The Honorable Maxine Waters Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Financial Services Committee on Financial Services 2129 Rayburn HOB B301C Rayburn HOB Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Hensarling and Ranking Member Waters: As you consider the schedule for the Financial Services Committee, we ask that you add a hearing and markup of H.R. 4643, the Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights Act of 2014, and H.R. 4511, the Protecting Students from Automatic Default Act of 2014. We recently introduced these bills to protect private student loan borrowers from unfair lending practices identified by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Bureau’s newest report on student loan complaints show that some students are sent into “auto-default” on their loans following the death or bankruptcy of a cosigner, even when the students are making loan payments on time. Many loans also advertise cosigner release, where the borrower can apply to release their cosigner after a period of timely payments. However, many lenders do not make this process accessible on their website, clear to the borrower, or available to all borrowers. H.R. 4643 would create a robust set of protections for students facing these difficult circumstances, allowing them time to replace or release their cosigner, requiring improvements to the cosigner release process, and prohibiting defaults in these circumstances from appearing on credit reports and ruining the credit of hardworking students. H.R. 4511 is narrowly targeted to give borrowers 90 days from learning of the death or bankruptcy of a cosigner to identify a new cosigner for the loan. These bills have received national news coverage and support from local universities, national education organizations, and other Members of Congress. We believe these important student protection initiatives are well-positioned to receive bipartisan support and we ask for prompt consideration by the Committee. We appreciate your consideration and look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Tim Bishop Member of Congress Member of Congress Washington, 2nd District New York, 1st District ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, applauded the U.S. Commerce Department’s announcement today naming the Puget Sound’s aerospace industry as an Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership designee. The Puget Sound Regional Council (PSRC) led the region’s application, which was one of 12 selected nationwide. The Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership initiative is designed to help communities carry out comprehensive, long-term economic development strategies to attract and expand manufacturing investment. “This designation is great news for Washington state’s economy and aerospace industry, the largest and most robust aerospace cluster in the world. PSRC’s leadership and the many business, labor and government organizations that worked together to achieve this success are a testament to strong coordination and partnerships. “Our aerospace firms support more than 132,000 jobs and are a critical economic driver for the region. These firms compete globally and are well-positioned to use this opportunity to spur more job growth and economic activity. “The resources available through this designation will help strengthen the Pacific Northwest’s aerospace manufacturing sector through workforce training, improved supply chains, participation in the U.S. Small Business Administration’s State Trade & Export Promotion program and other strategies,” Larsen said. Larsen wrote a letter in support of PSRC’s application. More information about the Puget Sound region’s successful application is available here. More information about the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership initiative is available here. ###
05.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement after President Obama announced his plan for U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan. Based on the President’s plan, the military will have 9,800 troops in Afghanistan at the end of 2014, half that at the end of 2015, and routine embassy personnel only by the end of 2016. The administration estimates the post-2014 troop presence in Afghanistan will cost $20 billion. This comes on top of the $640 billion the U.S. Department of Defense has spent on the war in Afghanistan since it began in 2001. “I am pleased that the administration will be bringing 22,000 troops home this year and transitioning security responsibilities to the Afghan people. However, I am disappointed in the President’s decision to extend our military presence. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have repeatedly voted to wind down our combat operations in Afghanistan and bring our troops home. It is time to transition security efforts to the Afghan people. We should do everything in our power to end the war immediately and Congress should have a real debate on our continued mission in Afghanistan,” Larsen said. ###
05.26.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding Ukraine’s presidential election. “I watched yesterday’s election in Ukraine closely. Initial reports from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s (OSCE) observers on the ground indicate high voter turnout and commitment on the part of election officials to hold a free and legitimate election. I am pleased by this news and await the OSCE’s final conclusions. “This election is important to many people of my district. The U.S. Census recently reported that my district has the seventh highest number of people of Ukrainian heritage of any of the 435 Congressional districts in the country. I know they are watching the election closely as well as I met with leaders of the state's Ukrainian community a few weeks back. “The unrest in the eastern portion of the country is concerning and I am troubled that polling places were less accessible in those regions. “The overall transparency of this election is an important step toward stabilizing Ukraine and installing a government backed by its people,” Larsen said. Washington state’s second Congressional district has the seventh highest number of people of Ukrainian ancestry among all Congressional districts, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Larsen recently met with Ukrainian American leaders in his district recently to ask their advice and guidance. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives today passed a defense spending bill with support from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, that includes provisions to strengthen the Northwest economy and improve national defense. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, which wrote the National Defense Authorization Act of 2015. One provision in the bill funds six KC-46A refueling tankers. The Air Force had requested seven. Larsen advocated for full funding of the tanker program during consideration of the bill. “I fought hard to get the tanker program into the hands of the best aerospace workers in the world—the Machinists of Puget Sound. And I fought to include full funding in the defense bill for the tanker, which is one of the Air Force’s top three priorities. While the defense bill is one tanker short, the budget process isn’t over yet and I will continue to push for full funding,” Larsen said. Other provisions of the bill include: A Larsen amendment that requires an interagency plan to verify and monitor potential proliferation of nuclear weapons and fissile material. Full funding ($2 billion) for the P-8A Poseidon program. The Navy recently completed the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement addressing the introduction of the P-8As to the U.S. Navy Fleet. The Supplemental EIS indicates the Navy’s preferred alternative is to replace the three existing P-3C squadrons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island with six P-8A squadrons by 2020. Funding ($493.5 million) for five EA-18G Growler aircraft. Funding ($1.36 billion) for six KC-46A refueling tankers. Boeing’s Everett factory is building the KC-46A. Full funding ($52 million) for two construction projects at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, including $24.39 million for P-8A Aircraft Apron and Support Facilities and $27.755 million for a C-40 Aircraft Maintenance Hangar, which will house and protect the C-40 when delivered. ###
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of the USA Freedom Act, a bill that reforms the government’s bulk collection of phone records. The bipartisan bill passed the House of Representatives and puts in place new processes by which the government must get approval on a case-by-case basis from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC). Larsen has been a vocal advocate of reforming the government’s surveillance programs following revelations last year about the National Security Agency’s bulk data collection. Last year Larsen introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act, which aimed to increase transparency by allowing technology companies to disclose the volume and type of information they were ordered to turn over to the government. A version of this proposal is included in the USA Freedom Act. “This bill makes important progress toward strengthening oversight and increasing transparency by reining in the NSA’s collection of Americans’ phone records,” Larsen said. “But it could do more. Some provisions in the bill that describe surveillance targets could be stronger. I hope the Senate can make these improvements.” “The American public deserves to know what data the government collects, so I’m pleased the Act allows tech companies to disclose orders from the government to hand over phone data,” Larsen said. “The NSA’s dragnet data collection is unacceptable and the House has acted rightly in making critical reforms that will introduce some sunlight into government surveillance. These reforms may not be perfect but they are an essential step forward in protecting Americans’ civil liberties and ensuring national security,” Larsen said. ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of a water infrastructure bill that passed the House of Representatives and supports economic growth in the Pacific Northwest. The Water Resources Reform and Development Act authorizes federal investment in ports, flood control and ecosystem restoration. Today’s House vote approved the bill as agreed to by a conference committee. The House originally passed the Act last fall. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee reconciled their respective chambers’ bills over the course of the last six months. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill later in the week. “Strong ports and water infrastructure mean jobs and a healthy economy in Northwest Washington, where we know that waterways are as important to our transportation system as roads and highways. “The bill the House passed today supports Washington state’s ports and streamlines permitting for new water infrastructure projects. These changes are an important investment in our economy and will help keep our ports competitive,” Larsen said. The committee report contains several provisions that Larsen has championed, including: Makes permanent Section 214, which allows local governments to fund additional U.S. Army Corps of Engineers staff time to expedite the processing of permits for infrastructure and ecosystem restoration projects. Authorizes inspection stations on the Columbia River to stop invasive species like quagga mussels from getting into our waterways. Improves the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to include a set aside for smaller ports and to allow for expanded uses. Ports in Northwest Washington pay more into the trust fund than they are eligible to receive because most of the funding is reserved for dredging, which the naturally deep-water Pacific Northwest ports do not need as much as other ports. Larsen is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. A summary of the bill is available here and a section-by-section breakdown is available here. ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in response to the U.S. Justice Department’s announcement that it is indicting five members of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army, charging them with hacking into the networks of U.S. companies. “The Justice Department's decision to indict five Chinese accused of cyber theft sends a strong and important message that our country will not tolerate activities that undermine our businesses' ability to innovate. “China's growing economy makes the country an increasingly important global player. But China must play fair. It can't take ideas developed elsewhere, including in the U.S., and use them to hurt our competitiveness. “I hope the Chinese will work with U.S. officials to put a stop to cyber theft for good,” Larsen said. ###
05.19.2014	WASHINGTON—The U.S. needs a better strategy to coordinate and prioritize its policies related to the Arctic region, according to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study out today that was released by Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Tim Bishop (NY-01), John Garamendi (CA-03) and Senator Lisa Murkowski (AK). The GAO study focused on U.S. participation in the Arctic Council, a voluntary body started in 1996 that includes the eight Arctic nations—Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Sweden and the U.S., as well as indigenous groups and other stakeholders. The State Department leads participation for the U.S. The U.S. has not prioritized its commitments to the Arctic Council and is limited in its ability to respond to emergencies in the Arctic region, the report found. As sea ice melts, making way for increased commercial activity, the report recommends a stronger strategy for U.S. participation in the Arctic Council and better process to track progress toward achieving Council goals. Larsen introduced a bill with Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis) last month to establish a U.S. Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs and has strongly supported additional investments in icebreakers. “The Arctic is the Northwest Passage of the 21st century, but today’s GAO report is another sign that the U.S. is falling behind in Arctic policy. With next year’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council, it’s time we appointed an ambassador to this important body. We also need to make investments in infrastructure like icebreakers to maintain a strong presence in this increasingly important region. Our country has major commercial, environmental and security interests in the region and we should start prioritizing them,” Congressman Larsen said. “If the United States hopes to maintain its presence in the Arctic, it is time to get serious about the region. The GAO report clearly points out that there is much more we could be doing to protect our interests, both economic and security-related. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to explore how we can better prioritize our Arctic policies,” Congressman Bishop said. “A warming climate that is opening up the Arctic to commercial shipping, the intense global competition for energy resources, and the absence of a comprehensive and binding international Arctic management regime are threatening to turn this emerging region into the Wild West. It is imperative that we avoid that scenario. Accordingly, the United States should demonstrate purposeful leadership within the Arctic Council to advance U.S. interests and obligations. We should also ensure that federal agencies involved in the Arctic, especially the United States Coast Guard, have a coordinated game plan and sufficient resources to meet these challenges,” Congressman Garamendi said. “This GAO report underlines and highlights the core threat to America’s future as an Arctic nation: we’re late in carrying out a needed path ahead and we need our agencies to work together as we move forward. This is one of the reasons we need an Arctic Ambassador with the authority to make decisions, and coordinate and oversee projects as we’re at this crucial juncture. The United States will be chairing the Arctic Council starting next year, which will either be an opportunity to highlight our leadership, or undermine it depending on our government’s approach,” Senator Murkowski said. ###
05.12.2014	By Danielle Douglas House Demoorats introduced legislation Friday to protect borrowers who pay their student loans on time from being placed in default when the co-signer dies or declares bankruptcy. These “auto defaults” force borrowers to either immediately repay the loan balance or ruin their credit, endangering their chances of getting a job, renting an apartment or buying a car. The practice happens in the private student-loan market, where banks and other financial firms provide education financing. Eight congressional Democrats, led by Rep. Rick Larsen (D-Wash.), want borrowers to be given at least 90 days following the death or bankruptcy of a co-signer to petition lenders to release them from the contract or find a new co-signer. The bill seeks to make the criteria for the co-signer release more clear, transparent and easily accessible through the lender’s Web site. It also would prevent lenders from reporting auto defaults to credit bureaus and prevent the companies from listing such black marks on a borrower’s report. “Students who have invested in their education by taking out loans and pursuing degrees should be treated fairly every step of the way, including by private lenders,” Larsen said. “And students should not be hit with marred credit records that could haunt them for years because of circumstances they can’t control.” The troubling trend of auto defaults was brought to light last month by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in its mid-year report on student-loan complaints. The consumer bureau highlighted grievances that have emerged with more than 90 percent of private loans now being co-signed. Of the 2,300 complaints about private student loans submitted to the bureau in the past five months, a key concern was the triggering of a default by the death or bankruptcy of a co-signer, even if the loan was being paid on time. Private loans often require borrowers to have someone else co-sign the agreement to ensure repayment. The arrangement can lead to a lower interest rate for borrowers because co-signers are obligated to repay the loan if the borrower does not. Lenders will usually release a co-signer from the loan agreement if the borrower has made consistent on-time payments. But some lenders and loan servicers — the middlemen who accept and apply payments to the debt — have borrowers jump through additional hoops to get such a release, according the report. Servicers and lenders ask for proof of graduation, transcripts, employment or salary, and even conduct credit checks. Consumers have complained that lenders have inexplicably changed the requirement for the releases. Read the story here on the Washington Post website.
05.12.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding his support for a bill that would provide stronger federal oversight for immigration detention centers nationwide. The Accountability in Immigration Detention Act would improve conditions in detention centers such as the Northwest Detention Center in Tacoma, where detainees recently protested conditions with a two-month hunger strike. “In this country made up of immigrants, we must do better in our treatment of those who have come here looking for opportunities like a good education and work. Detention centers should be accountable for treating immigrants fairly and humanely, a goal accomplished by this bill. “The bill includes a transparent and inclusive process to develop new rules. This means stakeholders from all levels of government, nonprofits, and other expert groups will be able to participate. Such a diverse array of perspectives will help ensure comprehensive, enforceable standards that result in better conditions for immigrants in detention centers. “Improved standards under this bill would also make sure detained immigrants have access to legal resources and several other protections such as limited solitary confinement, right to recreation and better medical care,” Larsen said. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the bill, introduced by Rep. Adam Smith, WA-09. ###
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced a bill to protect private student loan borrowers from “auto-defaults” when a loan cosigner, often a parent or grandparent, dies or files for bankruptcy. In its April 2014 “mid-year update on student loan complaints,” the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau identified significant issues facing private student loan borrowers. As of 2011, about 90 percent of private student loans had cosigners. Many loan contracts have clauses that allow the loan to be accelerated into default upon death or bankruptcy of a cosigner, often a parent or grandparent, even when students are making loan payments on time. Larsen’s bill, the Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights Act of 2014, is designed to protect grieving students and students facing family hardship from auto-defaulting on their private student loans and to get better access to information about cosigner release requirements. The bill also prohibits lenders from reporting an auto-default as a result of cosigner death or bankruptcy to credit reporting companies and stops these companies from including this information on their reports. “The last thing students grieving the death of a loved one should have to deal with is default on a loan they are paying on time,” Larsen said. “One of my top goals is to break down barriers for all people to fully participate in our economy and democracy. But full participation isn’t happening when students who have been making timely loan payments are suddenly kicked into default for reasons not in their power.” “Students who have invested in their education by taking out loans and pursuing degrees should be treated fairly every step of the way, including by private lenders. And students should not be hit with marred credit records that could haunt them for years because of circumstances they can’t control. “My bill gives students time to figure out a path forward with their loans and it requires private loan companies to be more transparent. Today’s students are juggling a lot, from rising tuition costs to a highly competitive job market. My bill makes sure that unfair and harmful auto-defaults are not on this list,” Larsen said. Local universities are getting behind the bill, including Western Washington University and the University of Washington. Steve Swan, Vice President for University Relations and Community Development at Western Washington University said, “Western is proud to support the efforts of Congressman Larsen and the cosponsors to protect students who are caught in a situation they have no control over. The Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights is about respect and decency in protecting students and allows them to keep their focus on achieving their dreams and aspirations through a higher education experience. The threat of having their private loans reported as in default in bereavement or family crisis is irresponsible and wrong.” Kay Lewis, Assistant Vice Provost for Enrollment, Executive Director of Financial Aid and Scholarships at the University of Washington said this about the bill: “The Bereaved Borrowers’ Bill of Rights protects students with private loans when their cosigner dies or files for bankruptcy. Cosigners are usually close family members and students should not have their loans reported as in default during a time of family crisis or bereavement. The University supports this bill as a way to add reasonableness, transparency and compassion to private student loan repayment, especially for those who are responsibly managing their repayments. It is definitely the right thing to do.” The bill has eight original cosponsors, including Reps. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Pedro Pierluisi, Denny Heck (D-WA), André Carson (D-IN), William Enyart (D-IL), Peter Welch (D-VT), and James Moran (D-VA). A fact sheet on the bill can be found here. Full text of the bill can be found here. ### UPDATE: Read what leading education groups have to say about the bill here.
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding his vote against H.R. 4438, the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2014. The Act would make the research and development tax credit permanent without providing a way to pay the expected cost of $156 billion over 10 years. “Support for innovation has long been one of my top priorities. Research and development are critical investments in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in Northwest Washington and across the country. I strongly support a permanent extension of the R&D tax credit because it would be good news for businesses of all sizes. “But we must invest in innovation and job creation while also maintaining fiscal responsibility. Our country's budget deserves a balanced approach by matching changes in the tax code like this one with savings found elsewhere. The R&D tax credit can achieve these goals as part of a comprehensive plan that includes a way to pay for the credit, such as passing immigration or tax reform,” Larsen said. ###
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after his vote against a Republican resolution to form a committee to investigate the attacks in Benghazi, Libya in 2012 that killed four Americans. To date, multiple panels have investigated the attacks. They have released 8 reports, interviewed dozens of witnesses, and reviewed more than 25,000 pages of documents. “The loss of four American lives in Benghazi is a national tragedy that warrants a thorough investigation to make sure families and the public understand the facts of that sad day. Bipartisan investigations have found no evidence of cover-ups,” Larsen said. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have heard from senior military leadership and officers who were in Libya at the time of the attacks. The committee has reviewed thousands of pages of documents and uncovered no evidence of conspiracies.” “Republicans persist in wasting time and money on duplicative and partisan efforts that mislead the public and undermine the credibility of ongoing investigations. The Republicans’ proposed committee would continue their irresponsible and biased approach to an investigation that deserves to be elevated above partisanship. “My no vote on this partisan proposal is a vote in favor of fair, bipartisan oversight. Our focus should be on keeping American diplomatic personnel safe and making sure the public receives facts about the Benghazi tragedy. This panel distracts from that important bipartisan effort,” Larsen said. ###
05.06.2014	WASHINGTON—Today Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led the Washington state Congressional delegation in asking the administration to move quickly in releasing a draft rule addressing standards for tank cars carrying crude oil by rail. The Department of Transportation submitted a proposal for safe crude-by-rail transport to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs last week. The letter states the delegation’s concern for the issue “because many trains carrying crude oil pass through the communities we represent on their way to refineries in Washington state.” Larsen previously has pressed the administration to implement measures to protect communities near trains carrying crude oil. Full text of the letter follows. May 6, 2014 Ms. Sylvia Mathews Burwell Director The Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Burwell: We urge you to quickly consider draft rules submitted to your agency last week regarding the standards for tank cars carrying crude oil by rail. These rules are critical for protecting public safety. Several recent tragic incidents involving trains carrying crude oil in North America make it clear that stronger standards for tank cars are needed. We are particularly concerned about this issue because many trains carrying crude oil pass through the communities we represent on their way to refineries in Washington state. We understand that the contents of a draft rule will not be released until your agency approves one. It is important to issue it quickly so that the public can offer improvements during the mandatory comment period. We believe that your agency’s quick action can help lead to a strong final rule. Several shippers have indicated that their ability to make long-term investments in safer tank cars is hindered by the continuing regulatory uncertainty about safety standards. They have also told us that confidence in the content of the standards and how they will be enforced will result in a faster transition to newer, safer cars. Last week’s train derailment in Lynchburg, Virginia underscores the importance of quick action on this issue. We ask that your agency quickly review and issue strong rail car safety rules so that the public and stakeholders can offer comment and this process can continue to move forward. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Doc Hastings Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Dave Reichert Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress
05.05.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the passing of Billy Frank, Jr. “Billy’s fierce and tireless advocacy for Washington state’s tribes, for the environment and for salmon populations was unparalleled. His decades of leadership leave a legacy of stronger treaty rights and healthier habitats to sustain tribal fishing for generations to come. “Billy worked diligently to share the cultural and spiritual importance of salmon to Washington state’s native populations and in doing so set a powerful example about how we cooperatively manage natural resources. “I am grateful to have worked with Billy on habitat restoration for salmon and steelhead. My thoughts are with his family and tribal members,” Larsen said. ###
05.02.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement after the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB) voted to approve the final report on the 2010 Tesoro refinery explosion in Anacortes that killed seven employees. “Completing the investigation into the tragic refinery explosion is a critical step in providing the Anacortes community with needed closure and in allowing the industry to move forward with improved safety practices. “Even though the final report is coming many months too late and some groups believe it falls short, it is important for the community to be able to understand what happened and take steps to prevent another tragedy. I will consider the findings in this report and other recommendations as I work with my colleagues in Congress and with refinery employees to improve refinery safety in Washington state,” Larsen said. Larsen called on CSB to release its final report several times, most recently in February, and expressed frustration at the slow pace of the investigation. ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Suzan DelBene, WA-01, sent a letter today asking the National Marine Fisheries Service and the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife to support a strong hatchery program for salmon and steelhead in Washington state. The state announced a legal settlement last week resulting in only some winter steelhead being released, potentially delaying or canceling fishing seasons for hatchery fish. Full text of the letter follows. May 1, 2014 Will Stelle Administrator, Northwest Region National Marine Fisheries Service 7600 Sand Point Way, NE, Bldg 1 Seattle, WA 98115 Phil Anderson Director Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife 600 Capitol Way North Olympia, WA 98501 Dear Regional Administrator Stelle and Director Anderson: Last week’s announcement that only some winter steelhead hatchery fish will be released concerns us that there will be further reductions in hatchery releases. We ask that your agencies work together to ensure that no such reductions occur, and we urge you to support a robust hatchery program for salmon and steelhead in Washington state. Washington’s sport fishing industry has $1.1 billion impact in the state and nearly 15,000 jobs depend on it. Our steelhead populations make a healthy contribution to Washington’s economy, our dinner tables, and our environment. Hatchery populations are critical for tribes in our districts, many of whose members rely on fishing for everyday nutrition. Hatcheries are an important part of meeting the treaty obligations to these tribes. Future delays or cancellations of fishing seasons for hatchery fish would have disastrous consequences for these tribes and the many businesses that rely on fishing. We urge you to work quickly to prevent such a calamity. While we understand that the decision to release only some of the available early winter hatchery steelhead was difficult to make, we remain concerned that a limited steelhead hatchery release may set a precedent for limiting other fisheries. We encourage your agencies to work together to expeditiously complete pending Hatchery and Genetic Management Plans for steelhead and salmon. As you know, many of these plans have been waiting for approval for over a decade. While we recognize the difficult budget circumstances your agencies face, these plans must be made a high priority. Thank you for your continued efforts to find a meaningful path forward so that recreational anglers, tribes, and fishing communities do not face future hardships. We look forward to continuing to work with you to advance steelhead and salmon recovery in the Puget Sound. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District Washington State, 1st District ###
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON—U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced it will publish an interim final rule to establish the U.S. Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Card Program, an initiative that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led by introducing and passing The APEC Business Travel Cards Act of 2011. The Act allows American business and government personnel traveling to the Asia-Pacific region access to expedited visa processing and designated airport travel lanes. Foreign travel card holders in 18 other economies already have access to these privileges when traveling to the United States. Larsen introduced the Act and led efforts to get it passed in 2011. “The APEC travel card equalizes opportunity for American business women and men traveling in the Asia-Pacific region and creates more chances to export American goods to these important markets,” Larsen said. “CBP’s announcement is great news and means our business people will very soon have access to the expedited travel benefits that foreign travel card holders receive when they come to the U.S. “People on the West Coast understand that the Asia-Pacific region is not the Far East, but the Near West. I am committed to helping Northwest Washington businesses access markets in these countries and the APEC travel card is an important tool to accomplish this goal,” Larsen said. CBP’s interim final rule will be published in the Federal Register in the coming weeks and will then be open to public comment for 30 days. The rule lays out eligibility requirements, application processes and fees, and the parameters of the program. ###
04.30.2014	Military Construction spending bill also includes priorities for Naval Air Station Whidbey Island WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of helping veterans get the benefits they deserve. During consideration of a military construction spending bill, Larsen led efforts to direct the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to expand its medical care to include more comprehensive coverage of reproductive issues that arise from deployment conditions and injuries. “After a decade at war, many women servicemembers are at risk for reproductive and urinary tract issues. And unfortunately, many injured servicemembers—both men and women—return home only to face infertility or reproductive problems,” Larsen said. “While the Department of Defense and TRICARE are already able to provide the necessary reproductive treatment to servicemembers with these injuries, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) services do not always meet the complex needs of severely injured veterans. The challenges paralyzed veterans face are already enormous. They should not have to pay thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket medical costs to start a family because of injuries they sustained in the line of service. “Disabled veterans have already paid too high a price in service to our nation. They should not have to pay a higher price to start a family,” Larsen said. Larsen also advocated for language in the military construction appropriations bill to make sure the VA maintains its capacity to care for the needs of veterans with severe disabilities. The military construction spending bill passed the House with bipartisan support. “I am pleased Republicans and Democrats worked together to make sure that veterans can access the benefits they are due. Timely access to health care is one essential way we can begin to express our gratitude to veterans for their service to our country,” Larsen said. Other veterans measures in the bill that Larsen advocated for include funding for: · Programs to eliminate the VA claims backlog · Veterans employment and education assistance · Suicide prevention and outreach programs administered by VA · Medical and prosthetic research The military construction bill also is a victory for Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. It includes funding for two priorities: · $24,390,000 for a P-8A Aircraft Apron and Support Facilities, which will help fund infrastructure changes and additions for the P-8A. · $27,755,000 for a C-40 Aircraft Maintenance Hangar, which will house and protect the C-40 when delivered. “Support for infrastructure improvements at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will help the base maintain its status as a preeminent military installation. These major construction efforts also will create jobs as the work gets under way,” Larsen said. “This is good news for the sailors and aviators at NAS Whidbey Island and for our local economy.” ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON—Congressmen Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) introduced a bill today to amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to establish a United States Ambassador at Large for Arctic Affairs. Currently, 20 government agencies are handling Arctic policy. Under this legislation, an Ambassador would be charged with all coordination and serve as Chair of the Arctic Council when the U.S. assumes Chairmanship of the Arctic Council from 2015-2017. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “We need someone with Ambassadorial rank to show that the U.S. is serious about being an Arctic nation. As Russia continues to act aggressively, including making claims in the Arctic, and as China states its own interest, the U.S. must coordinate its Arctic policy and protect its domestic energy supply at the highest level.” Congressman Larsen: “The Arctic is fast becoming the 21st century version of the Northwest Passage. An ambassador-level position takes an important step to coordinate U.S. commercial, environmental and security interests in the region. The position also signals our country’s commitment to international cooperation on Arctic policy.” ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the Department of Transportation’s proposal addressing the surface transportation bill reauthorization. “The administration is right to recognize the pressing importance of investments in our roads, bridges, highways and ferries. Businesses need to be able to trust in reliable access to markets and citizens need to be assured of their safety during daily travel. “In Washington state and across the country, this means ensuring bridges are safe and communities of all sizes have access to transportation funding. I cosponsored the SAFE Bridges Act to provide $5.5 billion for replacing or repairing deficient bridges. And I am committed to ensuring smaller cities are not overlooked for federal transportation opportunities. The TIGER CUBS Act would set aside 20 percent of special transportation infrastructure funding specifically for smaller cities. “Given the significant role of exports for Washington state, freight mobility is another key part of our country’s transportation system. I have long supported necessary investments in freight improvements, including rail safety, to ensure public safety and timely commerce and will continue to do so. “In Washington state, transportation means jobs. Building stronger infrastructure is an investment in the economic health of our region. “As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to develop a transportation bill that works for Washington state by supporting all kinds of infrastructure, including ferries. “The administration’s proposal lays out a framework for Congress to consider. I look forward to working with the administration to find a real funding source, to protect our bridges, and to make sure we are investing in transportation infrastructure for communities of all sizes,” Larsen said. More information about the administration’s surface transportation proposal can be found here. ###
04.25.2014	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continues to work toward ensuring communities near rail lines are safe as more crude oil is shipped by train. Larsen participated in two tours of local rail facilities this week to learn about rail inspections and how materials are offloaded. He also praised the U.S. Department of Transportation’s decision to submit a comprehensive proposal addressing safe crude-by-rail transport to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. The proposal is expected to address tank car standards. “The announcement by Secretary Foxx is good news for communities in my district. We need to quickly implement strong rules addressing crude oil that is transported by rail to better protect communities near rail lines and provide certainty to the industry that they can invest in newer, safer cars. “In my district this week I have learned more about practices for rail inspections, which are a critical prevention measure to keep communities safe. I also heard about how crude oil is handled as it is offloaded from trains. This information will help me in Washington, DC as I continue to work with my colleagues and the administration to put in place policies that promote safety, including support for first responders to ensure they are equipped to handle any incidents involving crude oil trains,” Larsen said. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, asked Secretary Foxx in January to implement measures to protect communities near trains carrying crude oil. He also has met with other top officials from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board, as well as industry leaders and local officials. ###
04.25.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today regarding the Navy’s Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement addressing the introduction of the P-8A Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft to the U.S. Navy Fleet. The Supplemental EIS indicates the Navy’s preferred alternative is to replace the three existing P-3C squadrons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island with six P-8A squadrons by 2020. The Supplemental EIS addresses potential environmental issues that may result from basing the six P-8A squadrons at Whidbey Island and includes public input provided in 2013. “Completion of the Supplemental EIS is another important step in the process of bringing the P-8As to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and an additional indicator of the Navy’s commitment to the base. I am pleased the community was able to provide input to the Navy as it considers the potential environmental effects of the transition. “I have long advocated bringing the P-8As to Whidbey Island because of the advantages for national security and the stability for the base. While the decision is not yet final, the Navy’s preference to house six squadrons at Whidbey Island furthers the base’s role as a preeminent maritime, patrol, electronic warfare and surveillance site in the Pacific,” Larsen said. The Navy will now undergo a 30-day waiting period, after which the Assistant Secretary of the Navy will sign a Record of Decision. A copy of the Supplemental EIS is available here and at local libraries. Oak Harbor City Library 1000 SE Regatta Drive Oak Harbor Anacortes Public Library 1220 10th Street Anacortes La Conner Regional Library 614 Morris Street La Conner Coupeville Public Library 788 NW Alexander Street Coupeville ###
04.25.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released a statement today following the Puget Sound Regional Council’s (PSRC) unanimous decision to provide up to $5 million of PSRC’s federal transportation funds to Snohomish County. The PSRC Transportation Policy Board unanimously made the recommendation on April 10 for the executive board’s consideration. “PSRC’s decision to provide funding that Snohomish County can use for economic recovery in and around Darrington is a significant show of support for the communities deeply affected by the slide. “I grew up in Arlington so I know first-hand the importance of an Arlington-Darrington highway. Smooth transportation is critical to the livelihoods of people living in these communities. And while it will take time to rebuild, PSRC’s support is another indicator that the region is here to help. “Thank you to PSRC for the decision to assist with economic recovery. I am grateful for the many contributions people and organizations have made following the tragic slide. The communities of Oso, Darrington and Arlington continue to be in my thoughts,” Larsen said. ###
04.22.2014	Funding that will go to Snohomish County represents a 75% reimbursement for costs they have submitted to the federal government 30 days into the recovery Announcement comes as President, Congressional delegation, and local leaders tour the community, meet with victim’s families, and thank first responders (Seattle, WA) – Today, Washington Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, Representatives Suzan DelBene and Rick Larsen, and Snohomish County Executive John Lovick announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide Snohomish County with $7,585,139 as part of its Public Assistance (PA) Grant Program. This funding represents the first payment as part of the PA program, which reimburses state and local governments for spending on recovery efforts in the aftermath of federally declared disasters. “This funding is absolutely essential for Snohomish County at a time when they’ve had to use every resource available to respond to this disaster,” said Senator Murray. “This is exactly why the federal disaster designation was so important. In the face of disasters like this local officials should never have to think about the bottom line when dealing with response and recovery efforts. This will be the first among a number of federal reimbursements that will come as the county and state tally up the resources that have been utilized to date.” “Today’s announcement is a critical step in helping the communities affected by the SR 530 mudslide rebuild and recover,” said Senator Cantwell. “As our first responders continue their important work, this announcement demonstrates the federal government’s long-term partnership in this recovery effort. As a delegation, we remain committed to ensuring the people of Oso, Darrington and Arlington have all the resources they need throughout this process.” “Today’s announcement is an example of how the federal disaster designation can play a critical role in making sure that federal resources are harnessed to support the tremendous response and recovery efforts in the aftermath of this devastating tragedy,” said Rep. DelBene. “The long road to recovery is only just beginning, and today’s funding announcement will enable Snohomish County to continue their critical work with the assurance that federal funds will be provided to help the communities of Oso, Darrington and Arlington today, and for the long-term.” “Local officials who continue to work so hard on recovery efforts should not have to worry about the costs. FEMA is designed to assist communities in tragic circumstances like this one and I am pleased the federal government is moving quickly to provide funding for response and recovery,” Rep. Larsen said. “We’ve put every effort into searching for victims and helping families affected by this tragedy. In the process, we’ve taxed our resources financially and logistically,” Snohomish County Executive John Lovick said. “We’re truly appreciative of this first installment of public assistance as we continue the important work ahead of us.” For details on the FEMA public assistance program and the emergency response efforts that it reimburses, visit HERE - https://www.fema.gov/public-assistance-local-state-tribal-and-non-profit ###
04.22.2014	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement in advance of accompanying President Obama on a visit today to the 530 slide. "The tragic mudslide that devastated the Oso and Darrington communities one month ago has forever changed the lives of so many in Snohomish County." "The President's visit today underscores the country's commitment to helping Oso and Darrington heal and recover. I am pleased President Obama will meet with survivors and community leaders to hear their stories. He will learn about the many challenges of rebuilding but also the incredible resilience of the people in these communities. "The ongoing hard work and support from first responders, community leaders, and friends and neighbors is deeply admirable. The President will see this strength in action today," Larsen said. ###
04.15.2014	President Obama signs delegation-sponsored bill that protects local landmark and critical tourist attraction in the face of efforts to remove it. Lookout is a vital economic driver in Snohomish County, particularly for communities impacted by SR-530 landslide. (Washington, D.C.) - Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced that legislation to protect the Green Mountain Lookout in Snohomish County has been signed into law by President Obama. The new law comes after a group based in Montana filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) for using a helicopter and machinery to repair the lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness within the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest. As a result, the U.S. District Court had ordered the USFS to remove the cherished lookout, which serves as a critical economic driver in Snohomish County. Murray, Cantwell, DelBene and Larsen led a bipartisan, bicameral effort to protect the critical landmark that was accelerated in the aftermath of the tragic SR-530 landslide. Communities impacted by the landslide rely on the lookout to help support their local tourism economy. “The Green Mountain Lookout is federally protected today because local leaders and lawmakers from different parties all came together to help a community that needed some good news at a time when there was little to look forward to,” said Senator Murray. “My hope now is that amid the difficult process of healing and rebuilding, this law can be a small, but important step in showing these communities that they can get back on their feet. This certainly cannot be the only step that we take to help the tourism industry that will be so essential to long-term recovery efforts in the region, and that’s why I’m looking forward to working with the recreation community and local leaders on additional steps going forward.” “Today’s signing marks the culmination of a community effort to save a treasured Snohomish County landmark,” Senator Cantwell said. “Today, President Obama signed legislation that will preserve the Green Mountain Lookout for future generations to enjoy. I appreciate the work of the residents of Darrington, along with my colleagues in the Washington state delegation to secure bipartisan passage of this important bill.” "Now that the President has signed this legislation into law, a treasured local landmark in the Darrington community – and for hikers near and far – has been saved,” said Rep. DelBene. “This law protects and supports an important part of the outdoor recreation economy and is welcome news for an inspiring community that has endured an unthinkable tragedy.”“As Oso, Darrington and the surrounding communities continue the hard work of recovery following the 530 mudslide, protecting the Green Mountain Lookout is one way Congress and now the President can show solidarity and support,” said Rep. Larsen. “Preserving this iconic lookout invests in the longer term economic recovery of a region that relies on outdoor recreation and tourism for their livelihoods. I am deeply pleased to have led efforts to keep this Northwest landmark in place for residents and visitors to enjoy long into the future.” The Green Mountain Lookout is an important feature of the Puget Sound region, and reflects a unique and vanishing part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. It is one of few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and only one of six such lookouts located within a Wilderness area. It was also an early warning station during World War II to alert citizens to possible aerial invasion. The Washington State Trust for Historic Preservation named it one of the ten most endangered buildings last year, before the court made its decision. ###
04.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The federal delegation representing Snohomish County called on the U.S. Department of Agriculture to declare a Secretarial Disaster Designation for Snohomish County to assist farmers who have been affected by the State Route 530 mudslide. In a letter sent to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack, Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Jim McDermott (WA-07), strongly supported the request made to USDA by Governor Inslee. The designation would provide the county with disaster assistance to help local farmers who have experienced crop and livestock losses caused by the landslide and the flooding from the blocking of the Stillaguamish River. The area has dairies, sheep farms, other livestock and crops including hay, Christmas trees and pasture land. “Washington state is home to a strong agriculture economy, with farmers, growers and agriculture businesses located throughout our state. Snohomish County is no exception to that rule,” the delegation wrote. “While local communities and state agencies have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude requires long-term federal assistance to help in the response and recovery effort. A Secretarial Disaster Designation will provide farmers, residents, and businesses in Snohomish County with access to low-interest loans and other important disaster assistance opportunities.” A Secretarial Disaster Designation would make farmers in Snohomish County affected by the mudslide eligible to apply for low-interest loans and additional federal assistance through USDA. View the letter HERE. The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave., S.W. Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack: We write to urge you to approve the Secretarial Disaster Designation for Snohomish County requested by Washington Governor Jay Inslee on April 10, 2014. As you know, on Saturday, March 22, 2014, a massive landslide near Oso, Washington, in Snohomish County, destroyed homes, damaged public infrastructure, and blocked the Stillaguamish River. More than 35 people have lost their lives, 21 have been injured, and 10 are still unaccounted for and presumed to be in the disaster area. State Route 530, the primary transportation artery between Arlington and the small communities of Oso and Darrington to the east, has been closed indefinitely due to the landslide. Washington state is home to a strong agriculture economy, with farmers, growers and agriculture businesses located throughout our state. Snohomish County is no exception to that rule. Due to the extreme devastation, the full extent of agricultural losses is unknown at this time. However, crops known to be grown in the affected region are hay, Christmas trees, and pasture lands. Livestock, including dairies and sheep farms, are also located in the disaster area. We are enormously proud of the more than 730 first responders and search and rescue personnel from multiple local and state agencies who have responded heroically to this tragedy. We also deeply appreciate the commitment of the many citizen volunteers, charities, businesses, and local elected officials who have risen to serve their neighbors during this very difficult time. While local communities and state agencies have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude requires long-term federal assistance to help in the response and recovery effort. A Secretarial Disaster Designation will provide farmers, residents, and businesses in Snohomish County with access to low-interest loans and other important disaster assistance opportunities. We therefore urge you to approve a Secretarial Disaster Designation as requested by Governor Inslee. Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, # # #
04.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s nomination of Jonathan Stivers as assistant administrator of the Bureau of Asia for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). “Jonathan Stivers has been an instrumental staff member to the House leadership team for many years. His efforts to advance trade policy and build Asia-Pacific relations are particularly admirable and will serve our country through USAID. “My team and I appreciate Jonathan’s commitment to many national and international interests, including global development in Asia. I look forward to the wisdom and dedication Jonathan will bring to USAID’s Asia Bureau,” Larsen said. ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after voting against the Republican budget. “Our country’s budget should reflect our shared value of opportunity for all. This value is nowhere to be found in the Republican spending plan. Rather than a blueprint for economic growth, the Republican budget would jeopardize health care for seniors, bankrupt America’s transportation system, and cut education funding for low- and middle-income students. “At the beginning of each year I set goals for myself and my office. My number one goal is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. When I look at the Republican budget, I see a plan that undermines our seniors, our students and our economy. “My constituents have asked me to protect the guaranteed Medicare benefit to make sure seniors today and in the future have access to high-quality care. I voted today in their favor by saying no to the Republican plan that slashes seniors’ health coverage. “I recognize the need to control costs. We can do this through cutting fraud and abuse, not health coverage for seniors. For every $1 spent on recovering taxpayer dollars from Medicare fraud between 2010 and 2013, taxpayers got back $8.10. These are worthwhile efforts to reduce Medicare costs, rather than depriving seniors of guaranteed health coverage as the Republicans propose. “The Republican budget plan to repeal the ACA is another blow to our country’s health. But Americans have made their choice in favor of health care and now it is time to move forward with quality, affordable health coverage that focuses on value over volume. “Keeping the Northwest economy growing requires safe and accessible roads, highways, ferries and bridges. Republicans do not seem to understand that bankrupting our transportation system, as their budget does, will leave states like ours unable to compete in an increasingly globalized economy. Investing in transportation creates jobs and keeps our economy moving by relieving congestion, improving safety and spurring growth in our communities. Our goal should be to maintain our infrastructure until it is old and then replace it. I have steadfastly supported many critical infrastructure projects including the SAFE Bridges Act and efforts to put the Highway Trust Fund on a sustainable path. “I am deeply disappointed the Republicans do not see the value of investing in higher education for low- and middle-income students. Their cuts to Pell Grants and proposal to eliminate funding for national community service programs severely diminish opportunities for students to pursue education and service after high school. Pell Grants are helping nearly 13,000 students and families in my district this school year. And community service gives all students an opportunity both to learn and share their skills to building stronger communities. I strongly support investments in today’s students, especially those who could not otherwise afford higher education, to develop strong workers for tomorrow. “The Republicans continue to push a plan that completely undermines our ability to create economic opportunity for all in the Pacific Northwest. My vote against this budget is a vote in favor of ensuring access to health care for all, keeping our roads and bridges safe, and investing in our young people.” ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released a statement today following the Puget Sound Regional Council’s (PSRC) unanimous recommendation for emergency funding to provide up to $5 million of PSRC’s federal transportation funds to Snohomish County. The recommendation comes from the PSRC Transportation Policy Board to the full PSRC Board, which will vote on a final action on April 24. “The mudslide on March 22 forever changed life in Oso, Darrington and the surrounding communities. Helping those affected recover their homes and livelihoods will take time and support from both public and private sources. “The PSRC Transportation Board’s decision to recommend $5 million in funding to assist in restoring smooth transportation in and around Darrington speaks volumes about the regional commitment to slide recovery. This financial contribution would allow Darrington to undertake transportation projects to put the valley on the path of economic recovery. “I am deeply grateful for PSRC’s funding recommendation and for all of the generous contributions people and organizations have made to Oso, Darrington and Arlington. My thoughts continue to be with all of those affected,” Larsen said. For more information about PSRC’s funding decision, visit the Council’s website. ###
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. “The communities near the Green Mountain Lookout spoke up when this iconic structure was threatened and I am deeply pleased today their voices have been heard. The Lookout has been a source of both enjoyment and economic benefit for the region and should remain so long into the future. “While the push to save the Lookout took many months, I was glad to have led the charge by introducing the original bill in 2012. I thank my colleagues in both the House and Senate for their support. “Passage of the Act sends an important message to Oso and Darrington that their community remains a premier Northwest destination,” Larsen said. The Act passed out of the Senate on April 3 and passed the House today, on April 7, by voice vote. Larsen gave the following remarks on the House floor in support of the Act’s passage. Full text follows: “I rise in support of S. 404, the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. “Mr. Speaker, Green Mountain Lookout symbolizes a unique and vanishing part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. “And this bill symbolizes Congress’ solidarity with a hard-hit part of Washington state. “The Green Mountain Lookout is one of few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and is only one of six such lookouts within a Wilderness area. It was also an early warning station during World War II to alert citizens to possible aerial invasion. “The communities in nearby Darrington and Oso are recovering from last month’s tragic landslide that killed dozens of people and shut the communities off from much of the outside world. First responders, FEMA, and other federal agencies have been extraordinarily helpful in recovery efforts. “Passing this bill invests in the longer term economic recovery of the region. Many people in these communities rely on outdoor recreation and tourism for their livelihoods. Part of that economy is based on access to historic and beautiful locations like Green Mountain Lookout. With the summer recreation season coming up, protecting Green Mountain Lookout sends a message from Congress to these communities: We’re with you. “For twelve years I represented these communities in Congress, until redistricting last year. I introduced legislation identical to this bill in June 2012, after an ill-advised court decision suggested Green Mountain Lookout should be taken down. “I was pleased that Senators Murray and Cantwell followed my lead and introduced companion legislation in December 2012. In February 2013, Congresswoman DelBene and I reintroduced this bill, along with our Senate colleagues. “I appreciate my colleagues willingness to protect the lookout, and the support of Chairman Hastings and Ranking Member DeFazio to put this bill on the President’s desk. “By protecting the Green Mountain Lookout, we will protect the economic livelihoods of many of those who have struggled after last month’s tragic landslide. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and send a message of hope to the people of Darrington and Oso. “I yield back.” ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, continued his push this week to expand small businesses’ ability to export by submitting a request for FY2015 funding for the State Trade Export Promotion (STEP) program. The letter, co-authored with Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, asked for sufficient funding for the pilot program that began in 2010. Since its inception STEP has assisted more than 400 Washington state businesses and helped generate more than $135 million in export sales. Larsen and Reichert introduced a bill in 2013 to permanently authorize the STEP program. The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Ander Crenshaw, Chairman The Honorable José E. Serrano, Ranking Member Subcommittee on Financial Services Committee on Appropriations| B-300 Rayburn House Office Building Washington DC, 20515 Dear Chairman Crenshaw and Ranking Member Serrano: As you begin to develop the Financial Services and General Government appropriation bill for Fiscal Year 2015, we respectfully urge you to include sufficient funding for the Small Business Export Trade Promotion (STEP) program. The STEP program is a pilot program that was authorized in 2010 (P.L. 111-240) and has produced impressive results. Due to its success, in 2013, the National Governor’s Association urged Congress to continue its funding and authorization. The program’s objectives are to increase the number of small businesses that are exporting, and to increase the value of exports for those small businesses that are currently exporting. All 50 states, Washington, D.C., and U.S. Territories qualify to apply for STEP grant awards. In the first two years of the program, 3,737 small businesses were assisted through the program. Many states have effectively leveraged program resources resulting in a return on investment for the majority of states of $10 to $1. In fact, six states had a return of investment of $20 to $1. The STEP program helps our small businesses and our communities and we respectfully urge this Committee to allocate sufficient funding to this important program. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress David Reichert Member of Congress Scott Peters Member of Congress Dan Kildee Member of Congress David Loebsack Member of Congress Susan Davis Member of Congress John Delaney Member of Congress Raul Ruiz Member of Congress Chaka Fattah Member of Congress Jim Langevin Member of Congress Steve Cohen Member of Congress Hank Johnson Member of Congress Joe Courtney Member of Congress Patrick E. Murphy Member of Congress David Cicilline Member of Congress James Moran Member of Congress Sheila Jackson Lee Member of Congress Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Member of Congress Karen Bass Member of Congress Eleanor Holmes Norton Member of Congress ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County released the following statement after the the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) extended the tax deadline until Oct. 15 for families who have been affected by the State Route 530 mudslide. “The IRS’s quick response to grant tax relief for the families affected by the State Route 530 mudslide will provide a small, but significant comfort to those whose lives have been forever changed by this tragedy,” the delegation said. “This decision will give affected residents of Oso, Darrington and Arlington a much needed 6-month extension on their taxes, as they continue the process of recovery and rebuilding.” The Internal Revenue Service announced the extension Friday after a letter was sent the day before to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen by Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02), urging the IRS to extend the tax filing deadline for affected individuals in Darrington, Oso and Arlington. The deadline for Americans to file their taxes is April 15. President Barack Obama declared the State Route 530 mudslide to be a major disaster on Wednesday. The tax relief announced Friday postpones various tax filing and payment deadlines for affected individuals and business until Oct. 15. In previous cases, the IRS has provided affected taxpayers in federally declared disaster areas with extensions on tax filing deadlines and flexibility in claiming disaster losses. The IRS announced relief on 2013 tax filings for victims of storms and flooding in Colorado and Illinois. Further information on disaster tax relief is available at https://www.irs.gov/uac/Tax-Relief-in-Disaster-Situations. A copy of the IRS announcement is below: The Internal Revenue Service announced today that victims of last month’s mudslides and flooding in Washington State will have until Oct. 15 to file their returns and pay any taxes due. Following this week’s disaster declaration for individual assistance issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the IRS said that affected taxpayers in Snohomish County, including the Sauk-Suiattle, Stillaguamish and Tulalip tribes, will receive this and other special tax relief. The tax relief postpones various tax filing and payment deadlines that occurred starting on March 22, 2014. As a result, affected individuals and businesses will have until Oct. 15, 2014 to file these returns and pay any taxes due. This includes the regular April 15 deadline for filing 2013 individual income tax returns and making tax payments. It also includes the April 15 deadline for making 2013 contributions to an individual retirement account. Also included is the April 15, June 16 and Sept. 15 deadlines for making quarterly estimated tax payments. A variety of business tax deadlines are also affected including the April 30 and July 31 deadlines for quarterly payroll and excise tax returns. The IRS will abate any interest, late-payment or late-filing penalty that would otherwise apply. The agency automatically provides this relief to any taxpayer with an IRS address of record located in the disaster area. Taxpayers need not contact the IRS to get this relief. Beyond the relief provided to taxpayers in the FEMA-designated localities, the IRS will work with any taxpayer who lives outside the disaster area but whose records necessary to meet a deadline occurring during the postponement period are located in the affected area. All workers assisting the relief activities who are affiliated with a recognized government or philanthropic organization also qualify for relief. Taxpayers qualifying for relief who live outside the disaster area need to contact the IRS at 866-562-5227. Individuals and businesses who suffered uninsured or unreimbursed disaster-related losses can choose to claim them on either last year’s or this year’s return. Claiming these casualty loss deductions on either an original or amended 2013 return will get the taxpayer an earlier refund but waiting to claim them on a 2014 return could result in greater tax savings depending upon other income factors. In addition, the IRS is waiving late deposit penalties for federal payroll and excise tax deposits normally due on or after March 22 and before April 7 if the deposits are made by April 7, 2014. Details on available relief can be found on the disaster relief page on IRS.gov. The tax relief is part of a coordinated federal response to the damage caused by mudslides and flooding and is based on local damage assessments by FEMA. For information on disaster recovery, visit disasterassistance.gov. The IRS is actively monitoring the situation and will provide additional relief if needed.
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the Senate approved the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. The Act will go before to the House next. “The Green Mountain Lookout has long been an integral part of the Glacier Peak Wilderness for recreation and the region’s history. I am pleased the Senate has expressed its support for the lookout and that I have been able to help lead the effort in the House. “I led the charge to save the lookout by introducing the original measure in the 112th Congress, during which time I represented the area that includes the lookout. Local citizens and preservation groups called loudly and clearly for the protection of the lookout. I acted with my colleagues to keep the structure where it belongs. My constituents continue to request that the lookout remain intact as it is a valued recreational destination. “Green Mountain Lookout is one of the few fire lookouts remaining in the west and it reflects a unique part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. During World War II it served as an early warning station to alert citizens to a possible invasion. The Washington State Trust for Historic Preservation has named it one of the ten most endangered buildings in the state. “Outdoor recreation at the lookout draws many tourists to the region to hike the picturesque trails and enjoy other local activities. The regional economy benefits from these visitors, which is especially important for the nearby Oso and Darrington communities following the recent landslide over Highway 530. “I welcome the opportunity to work with Rep. DelBene and others in the House and ask that they move swiftly to protect this Northwest icon,” Larsen said. ###
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led a request this week for $65 million to support the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund, which is vital to improving salmon habitats in the Pacific Northwest. In a letter to House appropriators Larsen and 11 other members from the West Coast asked for continued funding to support recovery of Pacific salmon, a critical species for the Northwest’s economy and environment. Larsen led a similar and successful request for FY2014 funding. The text of the letter follows: March 31, 2014 The Honorable Frank R. Wolf, Chairman The Honorable Chaka Fattah, Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations H309 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Representatives Wolf and Fattah: We are writing to thank you for including $65 million in the recently approved Omnibus Appropriations bill for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund (PCSRF), and to assure you that these funds are being put to good use in restoring a vital resource in our states. We ask you to continue this support by providing $65 million for this successful program in FY 2015. Your support for this program has resulted in impressive accomplishments in local and state salmon recovery efforts. A true partnership between the federal government, states, localities and private citizens has helped to catalyze thousands of restoration and conservation projects in the region. Under PCSRF, the National Marine Fisheries Service provides competitive funding to the states of California, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, Idaho, and Nevada, and tribes of the Pacific Coast region to implement habitat restoration and recovery projects that contribute to the sustainability of the species. Over the evolution of this program, NOAA Fisheries Service, states, tribes and local project managers have developed an integrated approach to track progress, measure performance, and ensure accountability. This program directly supports jobs and provides economic benefits to the communities throughout the region. Continued commitment, collaboration and resources are required to achieve the overarching goal of full recovery and sustainability. The restoration and protection of our fisheries resources are vitally important to our economies, our states, and to the nation. This is a challenging endeavor and we appreciate your continued support for PCSRF. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Don Young Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Jackie Speier Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress ###
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County called on the Internal Revenue Service to provide tax relief for families who have been affected by the State Route 530 mudslide. In a letter sent today to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02), urged the IRS to extend the tax filing deadline for affected individuals in Darrington, Oso and Arlington. The deadline for Americans to file their taxes is in 12 days, on Tuesday, April 15. The delegation letter comes one day after President Barack Obama declared the State Route 530 mudslide to be a major disaster. “We are writing today to urge the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to provide timely and guaranteed relief for taxpayers affected by the mudslide in Oso, Washington and respectfully request an extension of the tax filing deadline for the individuals impacted by this natural disaster,” the delegation wrote. “We believe it is important to provide this assurance especially in light of the Major Disaster Declaration for the State Route 530 slide that has been approved by the President.” In previous cases, the IRS has provided affected taxpayers in federally declared disaster areas with extensions on tax filing deadlines and flexibility in claiming disaster losses. Most recently, the IRS announced relief on 2013 tax filings for victims of storms and flooding in Colorado and Illinois. Further information on disaster tax relief is available at https://www.irs.gov/uac/Tax-Relief-in-Disaster-Situations. View the letter here. The full text of the letter is below. April 3, 2014 The Honorable John Koskinen Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20224 Dear Commissioner Koskinen: We are writing today to urge the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to provide timely and guaranteed relief for taxpayers affected by the mudslide in Oso, Washington and respectfully request an extension of the tax filing deadline for the individuals impacted by this natural disaster. We believe it is important to provide this assurance especially in light of the Major Disaster Declaration for the State Route 530 slide that has been approved by the President. As you know, a horrific mudslide occurred in Snohomish County, Washington in the community of Oso on March 22, 2014. Approximately 49 residential structures have been impacted by the mudslide, including the destruction of an estimated 37 homes and the severe flooding of 7 homes. In addition, there has been extensive damage in the neighboring communities of Darrington and Arlington. In the past, the IRS has provided taxpayers with guidance regarding filing extensions after natural disasters that have occurred near the April 15 individual income tax filing deadline. In February 2013, the IRS provided tax relief, including postponement of individual income tax filing deadlines, to victims of severe storms and flooding in Mississippi. Similar tax relief and a postponement of the individual income tax filing deadline and income tax payment requirements were provided to mudslide and landslide victims in West Virginia in March 2012. With the 2014 filing season deadline approaching soon, we hope the IRS will continue its diligent work of providing assistance to victims of natural disasters. It is imperative that the IRS issue tax relief and guidance, including postponement of individual income tax filing requirements, as soon as possible for taxpayers in Snohomish County, Washington affected by this disaster. Sincerely, ###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement thanking Washington State University for its support of the Oso and Darrington communities following the Highway 530 mudslide on March 22. The University has decided to waive tuition for the 2014-2015 school year for students whose families live in Oso or Darrington. “The devastating mudslide in Oso has forever changed the lives of so many in Northern Snohomish County. As the community begins the slow process of healing from this tragedy, friends and strangers alike have pulled together in many heartening ways to provide food, shelter, clothing and camaraderie. No surprise from such strong and resilient people. “Washington State University’s decision to support Oso and Darrington by offering a year of tuition to families whose homes and livelihoods were destroyed by the slide is an incredibly generous show of solidarity. “To the long list of thank yous to first responders, local officials, community members who have volunteered time and supplies and so many more, I add Washington State University leaders and students. In addition to providing care for farm animals and offering assistance through 4-H to rebuild natural resources businesses, the WSU tuition support will make a big difference for local families. “My thoughts continue to be with Oso and Darrington. WSU’s contribution offers a layer of relief to this tragedy,” Larsen said. ###
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County released the following statement after President Obama granted the major disaster declaration requested Monday by Washington Governor Jay Inslee. This declaration significantly expands the emergency declaration already issued by the President. The delegation includes U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Jim McDermott (WA-07). “For more than a week now, state and local first responders have inspired all of us through their work to save lives and help the communities of Oso, Darrington, and Arlington recover. While federal resources quickly deployed by the Obama Administration have been instrumental in the response efforts so far, the President’s decision today to issue a major disaster declaration and provide individual and public federal assistance is vital and necessary for the long-term needs of families in these communities,” the delegation members said. “With many loved ones still missing, the search process will continue, but the President’s action today is a critical step to begin the difficult, long-term recovery process for these communities.” On Monday, the delegation urged the President to expedite and quickly approve the Governor’s latest request to expand initial federal aid commitments. Last Monday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced President Obama had issued a limited emergency declaration for direct federal assistance in Washington state, which was then expanded later in the week. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) also announced it would provide $1 million in Emergency Relief funds to support emergency transportation needs in Snohomish County. States are required to request a formal declaration of emergency in order to receive federal support. On March 22, Washington Governor Jay Inslee first declared a State of Emergency for Snohomish County. ###
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, submitted the following statement today addressing H.R. 4005, the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2014. The Act includes Larsen’s language to move the Coast Guard toward strengthening its icebreaker fleet. Full text of the statement: I rise in support of H.R. 4005. The Arctic is fast becoming the 21st-century version of the Northwest Passage. Just four years ago, two German ships followed a Russian icebreaker to complete the first commercial shipment across the Arctic. Last year, with the warmest Arctic summer on record, 46 ships made the crossing. An active and well-maintained icebreaker fleet is a key part of our country’s responsibility as an Arctic nation. As Ranking Member of the Coast Guard subcommittee in the 112th Congress, I had the privilege to work with Representative LoBiondo, who was the Chairman at that time. We agreed it was time for the Coast Guard to make a decision about how to move forward with its icebreaker fleet. In the last Coast Guard reauthorization bill, we asked the agency to look at the business case for reactivating the POLAR SEA, which is currently docked in Seattle. That analysis showed that for about $100 million, we could have a functioning POLAR SEA, which is about one-tenth the price tag for a brand new icebreaker. In my view that is a bargain. However, the Coast Guard still has not come to a conclusion about what to do with the POLAR SEA. Instead, it is currently sitting in cold storage in Seattle. Every day the POLAR SEA sits without maintenance it loses value. The bill before us would require the Coast Guard to use the analysis Representative LoBiondo and I requested and make a decision about the POLAR SEA. I was pleased to hear Coast Guard Admiral Papp talk about reactivation of the POLAR SEA in a positive light during a subcommittee hearing last week. I believe the right course of action is to reactivate the POLAR SEA. But that decision needs to be made soon. The Coast Guard also needs to start moving on the next generation of icebreakers. I understand that the intent of this legislation is to encourage the Department of Defense, the National Science Foundation and other interested agencies to partner with the Coast Guard in building a new fleet of icebreakers. However, I am concerned that by tying the Coast Guard’s hands until those agencies fully engage in this process, we may be delaying much needed progress towards building a new icebreaker. That’s why I am pleased that Chairman Duncan and Ranking Member Garamendi included some changes I requested to the icebreaker language in this bill to ensure that we do not hinder what little progress is being made on icebreakers today. I hope we can continue to work together to ensure our country meets its responsibilities as an Arctic nation. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. ###
03.31.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County urged President Obama and top Administration officials to continue federal aid efforts in response to last week’s Oso landslide by granting the major disaster declaration requested by Washington Governor Jay Inslee earlier today. The delegation includes U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Jim McDermott (WA-07). “We are grateful for your quick approval of Governor Inslee’s request to amend the federal emergency disaster declaration on March 27, 2014. However, as the magnitude of the disaster becomes increasingly apparent, so too has the long-term personal and economic effects on these communities,” the delegation members said. “The current emergency declaration, while vital in supporting the immediate search and rescue efforts, is inadequate to support the long-term needs of individuals in Darrington, Oso, and Arlington, and the members of the Sauk-Suiattle Tribe. Their lives will be forever altered by the trauma they experienced on March 22, and they will continue to experience hardship as the search continues for their missing loved ones.” Last week, the delegation urged the President to expedite and quickly approve the Governor’s request to expand initial federal aid commitments. The President then approved that request the same day. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to grant as quickly as possible the major disaster declaration requested by Washington Governor Jay Inslee on March 31, 2014. As you know, on Saturday, March 22, 2014, a massive landslide near Oso, Washington, in Snohomish County, destroyed homes, damaged public infrastructure, and blocked the Stillaguamish River. More than 25 people have lost their lives, 14 have been injured, and 30 are still unaccounted for and presumed to be in the disaster area. State Route 530, the primary transportation artery between Arlington and the small communities of Oso and Darrington to the east, has been closed indefinitely due to the landslide. We are grateful for your quick approval of Governor Inslee’s request to amend the federal emergency disaster declaration on March 27, 2014. However, as the magnitude of this disaster becomes increasingly apparent, so too has the long-term personal and economic effects on these communities. The current emergency declaration, while vital in supporting the immediate search and rescue efforts, is inadequate to support the long-term needs of individuals in Darrington, Oso, and Arlington, and the members of the Sauk-Suiattle Tribe. Their lives will be forever altered by the trauma they experienced on March 22, and they will continue to experience hardship as the search continues for their missing loved ones. Within a matter of seconds, 1.3 square miles of earthen material rushed down the mountainside, burying people in their homes under 40 feet of mud, turning cars into scrap metal, depositing hazardous material and other debris in the trees, river, and soil, and forever affecting the lives of thousands of our constituents. In small rural towns such as Oso, Arlington, and Darrington, where everyone knows one another, the impact of a disaster reaches far beyond the number of individuals who lost a family member or whose property was destroyed. While these are strong communities, additional federal resources are necessary to respond to the individual needs of these disaster survivors. Over the last week, we visited the landslide and spent time with the affected communities in Darrington and Arlington. Although these are proud and fiercely independent people who are accustomed to taking care of their own and handling situations amongst the community, we heard loud and clear their pleas for help. One man in Darrington, while proud to be hosting a displaced family, spoke of the community members in need of housing and financial assistance. We heard from teachers who live in Arlington, but work in Darrington’s public schools, whose commute went from 35 minutes one way before the landslide blocked State Route 530 to at least two hours. This is taking a toll on not just their wallet and their time but also on their emotional wellbeing while they spend hours more each day away from their families. One woman in Darrington told us of her unemployment insurance running out and expressed fear and uncertainty about how she will pay the bills in the coming weeks. Survivors, many of whom lost family members in the landslide, are asking for help with contacting insurance companies and mortgage providers to understand how this disaster will affect their family. As you can clearly see, these Americans need our help. We fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration. The individual assistance with housing, transportation, legal services, disaster unemployment, crisis counseling and other supports will help meet the needs of the families we met and the scores more just like them who are struggling in the aftermath of this disaster. We are enormously proud of the more than 250 first responders and search and rescue personnel from multiple local and state agencies who have responded heroically to this tragedy. We are grateful for all those who have traveled from Colorado, California, Idaho, and other states to lend their assistance and expertise. We also deeply appreciate the commitment of the many citizen volunteers, charities, businesses, and local elected and appointed officials who have risen to serve their neighbors during this very difficult time. While local communities and state agencies have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude requires long-term federal assistance to help these communities respond, rebuild, and cope with the tragedy. We therefore urge you to grant Governor Inslee’s request in its entirety for a major disaster declaration as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your quick attention to this matter. ###
03.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County released the following statement after President Obama approved Washington Governor Jay Inslee’s request to expand federal aid for response efforts related to Saturday’s mudslide in Oso, Washington. The delegation includes U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Jim McDermott (WA-07). “Since Saturday, first responders in Oso, Darrington, and Arlington have risked their lives to rescue survivors and help these communities recover. Our first priority is ensuring these men and women have all the help they need to continue response efforts,” the delegation members said. “The President’s decision today to move quickly and approve the Governor’s latest request for federal aid is a positive step to support state and local agencies working in unprecedented conditions. We remain committed to working with the agencies on the ground and the Administration to ensure all necessary federal resources continue to be provided as quickly as possible.” Yesterday, the delegation urged the President to expedite and quickly approve the Governor’s latest request, which expands federal aid commitments already in place. On Monday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced President Obama had issued a limited emergency declaration for direct federal assistance in Washington state. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) on Monday also announced it would provide $1 million in Emergency Relief funds to support emergency transportation needs in Snohomish County. The USDOT Emergency Relief program provides emergency funding for highway repair after natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. The Emergency Relief program was reauthorized in the latest federal transportation bill, which passed Congress was signed by President Obama in July 2012. It is the same program used to pay for repairs of the I-5 Skagit River Bridge when it collapsed in May 2013. States are required to request a formal declaration of emergency in order to receive federal support. On March 22, Washington Governor Jay Inslee declared a State of Emergency for Snohomish County. ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County urged President Obama and top Administration officials to expedite and quickly approve the latest federal aid request from Washington Governor Jay Inslee after a devastating landslide impacted several communities in Snohomish County, including Oso, Darrington, and Arlington. Today’s request from the Governor would provide additional federal aid for response efforts. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), and Jim McDermott (WA-07) co-authored the letter immediately after Governor Inslee submitted the state’s official request to the Obama Administration this afternoon. “We are enormously proud of the first responders and search and rescue personnel from multiple local and state agencies who have responded heroically to this tragedy…While local communities and state agencies have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude requires long-term federal assistance to help in the response and recovery effort,” the delegation members wrote. “We therefore urge you to approve a federal disaster declaration as soon as possible.” On Monday, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced President Obama had issued a limited emergency declaration for direct federal assistance in Washington state. The U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) on Monday also announced it would provide $1 million in Emergency Relief funds to support emergency transportation needs in Snohomish County. The USDOT Emergency Relief program provides emergency funding for highway repair after natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. The Emergency Relief program was reauthorized in the latest federal transportation bill, which passed Congress was signed by President Obama in July 2012. It is the same program used to pay for repairs of the I-5 Skagit River Bridge when it collapsed in May 2013. States are required to request a formal declaration of emergency in order to receive federal support. On March 22, Washington Governor Jay Inslee declared a State of Emergency for Snohomish County. View the letter here. ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, supported comprehensive immigration reform this week by calling for a House vote on H.R. 15, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act. House Democrats filed a “Demand a Vote” petition to force a vote on the bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the reform package. “Our immigration system is broken and my conversations with people across Northwest Washington have taught me that we need a comprehensive solution. I am focused on breaking down the barriers that stop people from fully participating in the economy and our democracy. Immigration reform will help us do that,” Larsen said. A new report shows this bipartisan bill will reduce the deficit by $900 billion over the next two decades. More information on the bill is available here. Larsen also joined other House Democrats in sending letters to President Obama and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, encouraging the administration to adjust its practices in prosecuting immigration cases. The letters, led by Rep. Adam Smith, WA-09, call for the administration to expand immigration enforcement guidelines to consider whether undocumented immigrants have close family members in the U.S. who are citizens, legal permanent residents, or DREAMers. The letters also ask the administration to develop objective tools to ensure immigration enforcement resources emphasize keeping communities safe. “Successful participation in society for the people of my district and across the country depends on the development of a pro-growth, efficient and fair immigration system. “As Congress continues to debate comprehensive immigration reform, I support steps that facilitate fair and thorough deliberation of undocumented immigrants’ cases, within the confines of the law. My colleagues and I have asked the President and Secretary Johnson to assess immigration enforcement with an eye toward family and community ties, to focus resources on instances when national security or public safety is at risk,” Larsen said. ###
03.24.2014	Today, the federal delegation representing Snohomish County applauded two federal agencies for providing emergency assistance to Washington state in the wake of Saturday’s massive mudslide in Snohomish County. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for announcing that it will issue a limited emergency declaration for direct federal assistance. The delegation also applauded a decision by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) to provide $1 million in Emergency Relief funds to support emergency transportation needs in Snohomish County. “We appreciate the rapid response from the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Federal Highway Administration to the ongoing tragedy in Oso,” the four delegation members said. “All Washingtonians’ thoughts and prayers are with the families affected by this natural disaster. These declarations mean that the federal government can expedite resources to support rescue and recovery efforts in Snohomish County. Together, we will continue to work closely with Governor Inslee, County Executive Lovick and other state and local officials to ensure federal agencies offer whatever assistance is available to help Snohomish County recover from this devastating mudslide.” Debris from Saturday’s mudslide, estimated at one-square mile in scope, blocked State Route 530 between Arlington and Darrington, wiped out dozens of homes, and sealed off the North Fork of the Stillaguamish River. The Washington State Department of Transportation is still concerned about flash flooding and damage to bridges downstream. The USDOT Emergency Relief program provides emergency funding for highway repair after natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. The Federal Highway Administration will provide additional funds as permanent repairs are identified and cost estimates are completed. The Emergency Relief program was reauthorized in the last transportation bill, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century, which passed Congress in June 2012 and was signed by President Obama in July 2012. It is the same program used to pay for repairs of the I-5 Skagit River Bridge when it collapsed in May 2013. States are required to request funding and make a formal declaration of emergency in order to receive the money. On March 22, Washington Governor Jay Inslee declared a State of Emergency for Snohomish County. ###
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced nearly $1 million in funding for local flood protection and estuary restoration projects. The Skagit General Investigation Study will be receiving $400,000 and the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project will be receiving $360,000. Citing the need for long-term flood protection in the Skagit River valley, Larsen pressed the Army Corps for funding last month. “Communities in Skagit County have stayed focused on getting the G.I. finished,” Larsen said. “This ongoing commitment from the Army Corps is great news and sends a clear message that the federal government is going to keep its agreement in Skagit County. “The Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project will be the largest tidal marsh restoration project ever completed in our state. This project is not just about protecting the environment. It is about protecting our economy. Restoring the estuary will protect fishing jobs and help meet our commitment to our tribal partners.” More information on the Army Corps’ announcement of funding is available here. ###
03.04.2014	Downloads » Larsen and DelBene to ASA Darcy 2-10-14.pdf
02.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) move to stop the proposed Pebble Mine near Alaska’s Bristol Bay. Larsen opposes development of the Pebble Mine, which would hurt Washington fishers by damaging a critical salmon fishery. “Thousands of Washington fishers and processors depend on the vibrant sockeye salmon fishery in Bristol Bay,” Larsen said. “I have met with people across Northwest Washington whose mortgages and college savings accounts depend on a healthy Bristol Bay fishery. “I welcome the EPA’s action and expect that a clear-eyed look at the science will show that development of the Pebble Mine will irrevocably damage this vital habitat. The Pebble Mine’s huge potential for damaging pollution is simply too great a risk to take.” Larsen wrote to President Obama last year urging him to reject the mine and wrote in a Bellingham Herald op-ed that “Acid drainage and metal leaching from the proposed mine could poison the waters of Bristol Bay, irrevocably damaging the salmon population that Washington fishers catch and American families eat.” The EPA review means the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers cannot let development of the mine go forward until the federal government has evaluated whether the project would significantly damage the environment under the Clean Water Act.
02.21.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the announcement of a new voluntary safety agreement between the U.S. Department of Transportation and the nation’s freight railroads. “These standards are good news for communities near rail lines, but there is more work to do. We need a strong federal rail car standard, more resources for training first responders, and a better understanding on whether crude oil from the Bakken region is more volatile than oil from other regions. “I am meeting with city, county and public safety leaders along the Northwest Washington rail corridor this and next week to talk about what we can do now to improve safety for our communities. I look forward to next week’s Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing to get more answers on what more we can do to improve safety.” Larsen recently called for quick action from the U.S. Department of Transportation and has been meeting on the issue with administration officials, private companies, labor groups and local government leaders in Northwest Washington. Larsen discussed the issue in a meeting with leaders in Whatcom County yesterday and will meet with officials in Skagit and Snohomish counties on Monday.
02.18.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following Boeing’s announcement that it will construct its 777X composite wing center in Everett. “Boeing’s investment in Everett will drive long-term economic growth, creating jobs and opportunity for people throughout Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Everett workers will build a plane in our little corner of the country that will carry people to every corner of the globe. “Everett is the right place for the job. This investment will secure its place as the aerospace capital of the world for another generation.” Boeing will make a multi-million dollar investment to construct the facility, which will sustain thousands of jobs in Everett.
02.12.2014	Legislation Will Ensure FAA Conducts Open Rulemaking Process, Not Arbitrary Dictation of New Standards for Pilots Affected by Sleep Disorders WASHINGTON – House Subcommittee on Aviation Chairman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Ranking Member Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded House passage of their bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3578) to ensure the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) conducts an open rulemaking process before making changes to medical certification requirements for pilots with sleep disorders. The House passed the bill by voice vote on Tuesday evening. “Today’s overwhelming vote sends a clear signal that a top priority of the House is the safety of our skies,” said Chairman LoBiondo. “As the FAA continues to evaluate further health restrictions and safety guidelines to those who manage and operate in the national air space, it must do so via open rulemaking and while considering all viewpoints, including those of medical experts.” “When it comes to flying, safety is my top priority,” Ranking Member Larsen said. “The House spoke clearly today that the FAA needs to address the issue of sleep apnea in an open and transparent way that lets all stakeholders and safety experts provide input. I thank Chairman LoBiondo for his leadership on this issue and I look forward to working with the FAA, pilots, airlines and others to continue making flying safer.” Current FAA requirements dictate a pilot or air traffic controller diagnosed with sleep apnea to report their condition and seek treatment. The Aviation Medical Examiners Guide – a comprehensive document detailing the FAA’s medical certification regulations, dispositions, and protocols – includes an established process that provides the FAA with the authority to issue or re-issue an airman medical certificate to an applicant that is diagnosed with sleep apnea. After a review process, the FAA ultimately decides whether or not to issue a medical certificate. In November 2013, the FAA announced a proposal to significantly – and arbitrarily – modify medical requirements for airmen who might be at risk of having a sleep disorder, such as obstructive sleep apnea, even in the absence of any clinical evidence. The FAA’s proposal would effectively assume overweight pilots have a sleep disorder based solely on their body mass index (BMI) and subject them to potentially expensive testing and evaluation. The FAA also indicated their intention to eventually broaden this policy to apply to air traffic controllers and possibly to pilots with a lower BMI. The LoBiondo-Larsen legislation approved today does not prohibit the FAA from implementing new medical certification requirements for sleep apnea. It does, however, require the agency to conduct an open rulemaking process if they choose to propose new sleep disorder requirements. Modeled after similar legislation (H.R. 3095) signed into law on October 15th affecting commercial truck drivers, H.R. 3578 was introduced in December 2013 by LoBiondo and Larsen with Representatives Larry Bucshon (IN-08), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) and Sam Graves (MO-06) as original cosponsors.
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to suspend the debt ceiling through March 2015. “After too many years of brinkmanship, I am relieved the House of Representatives has now embraced a simple, but important principle: The United States pays its bills. “By passing a budget and raising the debt ceiling, the House has now broken the cycle of manufactured crises and shutdown politics that has obstructed substantive work. “Congress needs to refocus on strengthening the middle class by raising the minimum wage and investing in job-creating infrastructure and research. And we need to get to work on reforming our broken immigration system in a way that treats people fairly and helps grow our economy.”
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today commended Western Washington University (WWU) for coming in as the leading college in its class as a source of Peace Corps volunteers. With 65 volunteers, WWU is for the second year in the row the top producer of Peace Corps volunteers among medium-sized colleges. “This distinction reinforces what we already know about Western,” Larsen said. “WWU graduates are exceptional and have a passion for changing the world. I wish these students the best of luck and know they will well represent their university and our country around the world. Go Vikings!” Western’s 65 volunteers put it well ahead of other universities with between 5,000 and 15,000 undergraduates. The rest of the Peace Corp’s 2014 rankings are available here. Gonzaga University ranked first among small colleges and universities and the University of Washington ranked second among large colleges and universities.
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON—A key House committee today adopted language authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to move the Coast Guard closer to reactivating a heavy-duty icebreaker and continue planning for new icebreakers. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee adopted Larsen’s amendments to the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2014. The language will put pressure on the Coast Guard to begin reactivation of the Polar Sea icebreaker and provide funding for the Coast Guard to continue designing a new icebreaker fleet. “The United States needs to move fast to catch up to other nations in the Arctic,” Larsen said. “We are an Arctic nation, but our icebreaker fleet is too anemic to meet our responsibilities in the region. I am pleased the committee supported my efforts and look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen our nation’s icebreaker fleet.” A recent study ordered by Congress via language authored by Larsen and Sen. Maria Cantwell shows that the Coast Guard can reactivate the Polar Sea icebreaker for about $100 million, or a tenth of the cost of a new icebreaker. The Polar Sea is currently mothballed in a Seattle shipyard. Larsen has championed the icebreaker program in the House of Representatives. He recently wrote in a Seattle Times op-ed: “It is not the story of the United States to sit idly by while other countries take advantage of new opportunities. That should not be the case in the Arctic. The administration and Congress need to rejuvenate our icebreaker fleet and show we are ready to live up to our status as an Arctic nation.”
02.10.2014	Today, in a letter to Chairman of the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB), Rafael Moure-Eraso, U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen urged CSB to schedule a meeting in Anacortes for the public to have a chance to give feedback on an initial report on the Anacortes-Tesoro refinery explosion, which killed 7 people nearly 4 years ago. Sens. Murray and Cantwell and Rep. Larsen expressed their continued disappointment in delays throughout the investigation, as well as their hope that CSB will be fully engaged with Anacortes as they complete this process. The release of the initial report began a 45 day public comment period, after which the CSB will vote to approve the report. The full text of the letter below: Dear Chairman Moure-Eraso: Now that the Chemical Safety Board has released its long-overdue draft findings on the Tesoro refinery explosion in Anacortes, we ask that you remain fully engaged with our constituents to complete this process. The Anacortes community deserves to have its input considered in an actionable report from your agency, in full view of the public. It is also our expectation that once the final report is completed, the Board return to Anacortes to consider and vote on the report. We remain disappointed by the delays and excuses we have received from your agency throughout this investigation. As we quickly near the four-year anniversary of this tragic accident which claimed seven lives, we expect nothing less than a full and transparent proceeding, and a final accounting of what happened, where responsibility lies, and how to avoid such incidents in the future. Our goal continues to be making sure our refineries are as safe as possible for the people who work in them and the communities that surround them. Done properly, the final report should provide a roadmap for industry, state and federal agencies, and Congress to increase safety at refineries across the nation and help prevent tragedies like this from happening again. Sincerely, Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Congressman Rick Larsen
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following Tesoro Corp’s announcement that it will replace its older crude railcars with modern-standard versions by the middle of this year. “I welcome Tesoro’s decision to proactively upgrade its railcar fleet to meet modern safety standards, joining other companies that have made similar commitments,” Larsen said. “I will continue pressing for better rail safety at all the refineries through Northwest Washington. “While it is good to see private operators taking action, the federal government needs to catch up by quickly issuing new standards for railcars carrying crude oil. We should not risk future accidents when there are steps we can take right now to make our communities safer.” Larsen recently sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx calling for quick action, and discussed the issue with him at a White House meeting earlier this week. Larsen has also been holding meetings on the issue with other administration officials, private companies, labor groups and local government leaders in Northwest Washington.
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON—The Obama Administration today announced it supports legislation to preserve the Green Mountain Lookout authored by Reps. Suzan DelBene and Rick Larsen. The Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act would protect the lookout in Glacier Peak Wilderness that a U.S. District Court ordered removed following a lawsuit. In a Statement of Administration Policy, the White House wrote, “The Administration supports provisions that would allow for the operation of the Green Mountain Lookout in Washington State.” “We appreciate the administration’s support for our commonsense bill to keep the Green Mountain Lookout where it belongs,” DelBene and Larsen said. “The Lookout is an iconic piece of the Pacific Northwest’s history and it deserves to be protected for outdoor enthusiasts to enjoy today and in the years to come.” The DelBene/Larsen bill to protect the lookout is included in a package of controversial public lands bills put up for a vote this week by House Republican leadership. The Obama Administration and numerous environmental groups oppose the package, which the administration says, “contains a number of provisions that would undermine the responsible balance of interests and considerations in the stewardship of the Nation’s lands and natural resources.” Both DelBene and Larsen will oppose the omnibus legislation as currently drafted and are calling instead for a clean, individual vote on their Green Mountain Lookout bill. The House Committee on Natural Resources has approved the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell have introduced companion legislation in the Senate where it awaits action.
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on “The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012: Two Years Later.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing on “The FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012: Two Years Later.” Mr. Chairman, this month marks the halfway point of the FAA reauthorization cycle. It is a good time to stop and assess the FAA’s progress implementing the 2012 reauthorization act. Together, we must take stock of those areas of the Act the FAA has successfully implemented, and note where Congress may need to make adjustments as we look forward toward the next FAA reauthorization. Looking forward, the force of globalization and the growth of emerging international markets present both opportunities and challenges for American aviation. As I said in our last hearing, we simply cannot write a reauthorization bill for 2015 without taking a look at what’s happening elsewhere in the world. The aviation industry is global, it is competitive, and there are new entrants in the market every day. What happens in Shanghai, Dubai, New Delhi, Moscow, and Bueno Aires matters here in the United States. And what the FAA does here in the United States will affect our ability to compete internationally. The 2012 FAA reauthorization contained several provisions intended to accelerate the deployment of the Next Generation Air Transportation system. At the request of this Committee’s bipartisan leadership, the Department of Transportation Inspector General recently audited the FAA’s implementation of these NextGen-related provisions. The audit noted that, to date, the FAA has implemented roughly half of these provisions. According to the Inspector General, the FAA’s difficulty in implementing the remaining NextGen provisions, and meeting stakeholder expectations for NextGen more generally, stem from long-standing programmatic and organizational challenges. Mr. Chairman, one of the key takeaways from the 2009 RTCA NextGen Mid-Term Implementation Task Force report was that organizational structure matters. The officials responsible for planning and implementing NextGen must have the responsibility, accountability and authority to get the job done. To its credit, the FAA has had some successes advancing individual NextGen programs. Yet that is not always the case. Mr. Chairman, you and I held several hearings and listening sessions last year where we heard frustration from aviation stakeholders regarding the FAA’s ability deliver near-term NextGen benefits. We have also heard continuing concerns that FAA’s efforts to advance NextGen at the programmatic level are not properly integrated across the agency’s lines of business. For several years, stakeholders have stressed the need for unity of effort across the FAA lines of business, and between FAA’s partner agencies, to achieve both near-term benefits and a long-term NextGen vision. Congress attempted to strengthen the FAA’s NextGen organizational structure in the 2012 FAA reauthorization by creating a Chief NextGen Officer position. Last June, Michal Whitaker assumed this role, and last September, the FAA appointed Major General Edward Bolton to fill the position of Assistant Administrator for NextGen. As we look toward the next reauthorization, it will be important for this Subcommittee to evaluate whether the organizational reforms that Congress made have been effective, or whether additional reforms are warranted. I look forward to hearing our witnesses’ thoughts on this subject. Mr. Chairman, the disposition and physical condition of FAA facilities are also inextricably tied to the successful rollout of NextGen. Moreover, they are critical safety and quality of life issues for FAA’s employees. Last September, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) reported that FAA’s staffed facilities had a backlog of approximately $260 million in deferred maintenance. Further, the existing technology at several terminal facilities must be upgraded to accommodate NextGen. For these reasons, section 804 of the 2012 FAA reauthorization required FAA to complete a study on the consolidation and realignment of FAA facilities. Administrator Huerta, I commend the proactive and collaborative approach that you have taken to address the FAA’s need to consolidate its aging facilities. As directed by the FAA reauthorization, you are working closely with the affected FAA employees’ unions through a comprehensive process to identify cost beneficial consolidation opportunities. Based on the briefing that you provided to Committee leadership last December, we expect that the FAA will provide initial consolidation recommendations early next year, right around the time that this Subcommittee will be taking action on the next reauthorization. While we hope that facility consolidation will provide cost savings in the long-term, it will be an expensive undertaking at the outset. This Subcommittee will need to examine whether the FAA’s current capital funding levels will support facility consolidation, or whether Congress will need to increase FAA’s capital budget to support this effort. We will also need to make sure that labor groups are included in the decision making process. One last key issue I hope to discuss in more detail today concerns Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS). Mr. Chairman, unmanned aircraft are not a Next Generation technology – they are very much in the here and now. Like so many other innovations in aviation, the growth and development of large unmanned aircraft has been spurred by military necessity. We have seen large UAS technology mature over the last decade through thousands operational hours and missions flown over the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan. The FAA estimates that we can expect 7,500 small unmanned aircraft in the national airspace system over the next five years, provided regulations and operational guidelines are in place to handle them. In fact, you do not need to go much further than the Internet to see that entrepreneurs are finding creative applications for small unmanned aircraft today. Congress and the Administration must ensure that these systems are safe before being fully utilized beneficial public and private sector applications. For this reason, the FAA reauthorization act requires the FAA to safely integrate UAS into the national airspace system by September 30, 2015. The Act also provides FAA with specific tasks and milestones on its path toward UAS integration. While the FAA has completed roughly half of the UAS provisions set out in the Act, it has missed most of the statutory deadlines for the provisions it has completed. For example, last December the FAA announced six UAS test ranges where the agency will collect data to address safety and operational issues. Yet, according to the Inspector General, FAA officials do not believe that the agency will meet the September 2015 milestone for safe UAS integration. Additionally, GAO will testify today that FAA will probably not meet the August 2014 final rule deadline for small unmanned aircraft required by the FAA reauthorization act. Mr. Chairman this Subcommittee must provide vigorous oversight in the coming months to ensure that FAA stays on track implementing these important provisions. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.
01.30.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the Chemical Safety Board’s release of its draft report on the 2010 explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes that claimed seven lives. “This long overdue report tells us this accident was not only tragic, it was preventable,” Larsen said. “It is totally unacceptable that Tesoro management allowed non-standard safety practices to become routine. “My thoughts remain with the families of the victims. I am focused on steps to prevent the next tragedy from happening. We need to improve resources for inspectors, tighten the standards for the materials used in refineries and find a way to implement a more timely review process by the Chemical Safety Board.” Larsen and other members of the Washington delegation have pressed the Chemical Safety Board for years to complete this report, which provides a roadmap for regulators and Congress to take actions to improve safety for refinery workers. The draft report is available here.
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after voting in favor of a five-year farm bill that governs federal agricultural policy and nutrition assistance programs. The legislation, known as the Farm Bill, is the product of a compromise between House and Senate negotiators and was passed by the House today. “The Farm Bill makes sure thousands of families in Northwest Washington have access to good nutrition and helps our farmers produce world-class potatoes, berries and flowers,” Larsen said. “This Farm Bill makes an unparalleled commitment to specialty crops like apples, raspberries, and potatoes that our farmers grow throughout Northwest Washington. The bill’s major investments will help our farmers become competitive as they sell their Washington-grown crops around the world. “I am disappointed by the cuts to nutrition programs in this bill, but I also know they could have been much worse. Rep. DelBene and others did good work in beating back the deep cuts that Republicans wanted that would have left thousands of families without this vital lifeline. It is wrong for Congress to cut these benefits for people who are struggling while refusing to even look at huge subsidies that go to the wealthiest. “The extension of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) funding will send dollars directly to Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish counties to fund our classrooms, police departments and roads. Local government leaders tell me all the time how critical these payments are, so I am pleased Congress will renew the funding in this bill.” The Farm Bill includes language to provide certainty to private forest owners about permitting for their operations. The language includes an amendment Larsen proposed to ensure that current forestry practices that lead to runoff remained covered by the Clean Water Act. A full summary of the Farm Bill is available here. Highlights: Items of Interest for Northwest Washington Includes Larsen-authored language to protect private forest owners and the environment by maintaining current Clean Water Act standards for forest roads. Provides the biggest investments in specialty crops and organic farming in Farm Bill history, including: $800 million for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative, $100 million for organic research, and $375 million for Specialty Crop Block Grants. Yearlong extension for Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), which provide Northwest Washington counties with funding to keep basic services working. $20 million increase in support for food banks for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP). Reauthorizes export promotion programs to help sell Northwest Washington fruits and vegetables abroad. Continues funding for Rural Development programs, including wastewater grants, rural broadband development, and distance learning and telemedicine. $200 million pilot program, authored by Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, to provide job training for SNAP recipients.
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “As the economy has recovered, too many Americans have been left behind. The President laid out a compelling case for why we need to open up economic opportunities for more people. “Let’s start by raising the minimum wage. Congress should raise the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour and tie future wage increases to inflation. It is unacceptable that millions of people are working full-time at the minimum wage but still living in poverty. It’s time for a change. “The President’s executive action to raise the minimum wage for federal contractors is a welcome start which will hopefully encourage private companies to follow suit. “Ultimately we need to refocus on investing in the middle class, making sure that all students have the opportunity to get a good education, all workers have the opportunity to get a good job, and all Americans have the opportunity to live with security and dignity.”
01.28.2014	WASHINGTON—The mother and sister of Kenneth Bae, the American imprisoned in North Korea, will be invited guests at tonight’s State of the Union address. Myunghee Bae and Terri Chung will attend the President’s address as guests of Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Charles Rangel, NY-13. “I am pleased to welcome Myunghee and Terri to the Capitol as guests for the State of the Union address,” Larsen said. “They have been tireless advocates for Kenneth, and I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with them as we continue our work to ensure his safe return home.” “I have repeatedly called upon DPRK to release Kenneth Bae and would like to reiterate this message by bringing his family as guests to the State of the Union,” Rangel said. “Nothing is more tragic than the separation of families and loved ones. As a Korean War veteran, I have long advocated for peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula and hope North Korea would take steps to build trust and reconciliation by first reuniting the Bae family.” Bae has been imprisoned in North Korea since November 2012. He is from Lynnwood, Wash., and lives in China with his wife and children.
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON – With the Seattle Seahawks set to face the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XLVIII, the Washington House Delegation extended a friendly wager with the Colorado House Delegation. With Seattle’s victory, the Colorado House delegation will provide an array of regional treats to Washington members. “It’s often said that championships are won with defense, and we couldn’t agree more. The last time the Seahawks played a Manning at MetLife stadium, our number one ranked defense led by the ‘Legion of Boom’ forced 5 interceptions and gave up exactly zero points,” said the Washington delegation. “With that in mind, we’d like to thank the Colorado delegation’s very generous contribution to the victory party that we’ll be holding on February 3rd. Go Hawks!” In the highly unlikely event the Broncos are victorious, the delegation has put together a package of some of Washington’s specialties. “My Colorado colleagues and I are proud to offer up some of our state’s fantastic beverages and food for our friends from Washington,” said Representative Diana DeGette (01-Colo.), on behalf of the Colorado delegation. “With the Denver Broncos on the verge of capturing their 3rd Lombardi Trophy, we are looking forward to enjoying the best that Washington state has to offer.” The products wagered by the Washington House delegation include: Rep. Suzan DelBene (01-Wash.): Woodinville Wine and Smoked Salmon Rep. Rick Larsen (02-Wash.): Gin from Everett's Bluewater Distilling Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (03-Wash.): Candy from Chehalis Mints Rep. Doc Hastings (04-Wash.): A bottle of Central Washington Wine Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (05-Wash.): Cougar Gold Cheese from Pullman Rep. Derek Kilmer (06-Wash.): Caramel Apples from Amy’s Decadent Chocolates and Almond Roca Rep. Jim McDermott (07-Wash.): Theo’s Chocolate Rep. Dave Reichert (08-Wash.): Boehm's Chocolates, Blueberry Hill Farm's blueberry pies, and Washington apples Rep. Adam Smith (09-Wash.): Vietnamese BBQ from Rainier Restaurant and BBQ Rep. Denny Heck (10-Wash.): Fisher Fair Scone Mix Delegation: Skittles The Colorado House delegation has offered: Rep. Diana DeGette (01-Colo.): Stranahan’s Whiskey & Tamales Rep. Jared Polis (02-Colo.): Celestial Seasonings Tea Rep. Scott Tipton (03-Colo.): Enstrom Toffee Rep. Cory Gardner (04-Colo.): Rocky Mountain Oysters Rep. Doug Lamborn (05-Colo.): 2 locally-sourced, hormone and antibiotic-free Callicrate Beef sirloin steaks from Ranch Foods Direct Rep. Mike Coffman (06-Colo.): 6 pack of Dry Dock Brewing Company’s Amber Ale Rep. Ed Perlmutter (07-Colo.): Caution Brewery Bomber Bat, barrel aged version of their smoked robust porter.
01.27.2014	WASHINGTON—The U.S. Department of Justice today implemented government data-collection reforms that were first proposed by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, in his Government Surveillance Transparency Act. The Justice Department announced it will allow technology companies to disclose data about the volume and type of data they are required to turn over to the government. Larsen first proposed these reforms in June 2013. “The American people should have the right to know what kind of information the government is collecting from them,” Larsen said. “I am pleased the Department of Justice is adopting my proposal to increase transparency of government surveillance activity. That said, Congress must still act so these reforms have the force of law. “Congress can no longer take ‘trust us’ as an answer. We need to strongly reform government surveillance programs so they are limited, transparent and accountable.”
01.24.2014	WASHINGTON—“Exasperated” by the U.S. Chemical Safety Board’s actions, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on the federal safety agency to quickly issue its report on the April 2010 explosion at the Tesoro refinery. “The Anacortes community deserves better after four years of waiting and countless delays from CSB,” Larsen wrote in a letter to board Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso. The Chemical Safety Board’s investigation into the refinery explosion that claimed seven lives has been delayed several times. While the board had scheduled a public meeting in Anacortes this month to discuss the report, they have now cancelled the meeting and instead plan to hold a listening session in the community. The board has not released the draft report and does not plan to before the listening session. The full text of Larsen’s letter to Moure-Eraso follows: January 24, 2014 The Honorable Rafael Moure-Eraso Chairman U.S. Chemical Safety Board 2175 K St., NW Suite 400 Washington, DC 20037 Dear Chairman Moure-Eraso: I am exasperated to hear about the U.S. Chemical Safety Board’s (CSB) sudden change to the previously scheduled January 30 meeting in Anacortes to investigate the April 2010 explosion at the Tesoro refinery. Yesterday, the CSB put notice in the Federal Register canceling the public board meeting to consider the report on the accident, and in its place scheduled a “listening session.” My understanding is that CSB will provide no advance copies of the draft report on the accident to the public until the meeting occurs. Additionally, the notice indicates that CSB will limit public input at the session. The Anacortes community deserves better after four years of waiting and countless delays from CSB. My constituents will not be afforded an appropriate opportunity to weigh in with the CSB Board in person unless they are given enough time to evaluate the investigations complex and numerous findings. You assured me that my constituents would be given that basic opportunity when we spoke in April 2013 about the progress of the report. I am concerned that you are not meeting that commitment. I urge you to do at least the bare minimum to meet your agency’s mandate: issue the draft report quickly and schedule a public meeting in Anacortes after enough time has passed for the public to consider the report’s recommendations. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District
01.23.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on the federal government to act quickly in response to recent incidents involving trains carrying crude oil. Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, wrote to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx urging quick adoption of new measures to improve rail safety. “I ask that you work quickly to implement measures to protect communities near trains carrying crude oil,” Larsen wrote. “I am particularly concerned about the recent accidents involving these trains, since many of them pass through communities on the way to refineries in Northwest Washington.” In a separate letter, Larsen asked the leaders of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to hold an oversight hearing on the issue. Larsen has discussed the issue this month with top officials from the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, National Transportation Safety Board, BNSF Railway, the Tesoro Corporation, and the Greenbrier Companies, and has additional meetings scheduled in the coming weeks. The full text of Larsen’s letter to Secretary Foxx follows: January 23, 2014 The Honorable Anthony Foxx Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: I ask that you work quickly to implement measures to protect communities near trains carrying crude oil. I am particularly concerned about the recent accidents involving these trains, since many of them pass through communities on the way to refineries in Northwest Washington. Last week, I met with Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administrator Quarterman and expressed my interest in this topic. I have also spoken with rail stakeholders, railcar manufacturers, refiners, oil companies, and the NTSB. Based on these conversations, I believe quick action is necessary. I plan to continue meeting with stakeholders and constituents on this issue. I appreciate your recent meetings with rail and oil industry stakeholders on this issue and the announcement of voluntary measures by industry to improve safety. The Department of Transportation should act swiftly to issue new standards for rail cars transporting oil. Without these new standards, older and less safe rail cars will continue to be used. I also ask that you quickly implement strict classification guidelines to ensure proper handling of Bakken crude. Recent recommendations by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) on crude transport should be strongly considered as you develop any new rules. The increasing development of domestic crude sources makes timely development of safety measures critical. According to the Association of American Railroads, this traffic has increased 400 percent nationwide in the last decade. I urge you to use your authority to ensure the safety of all communities affected by this development. Thank you for your consideration. I appreciate your continuing commitment to safety, and look forward to continuing to work with you on this issue. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District Downloads » Letter to Shuster/Rahall on Crude Oil Train Hearing Request
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, made the case for raising the minimum wage in an appearance today on KVI with host John Carlson. Larsen is cosponsor of a bill to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Audio of the interview is available here. “It’s pretty clear that low-wage workers are older than they were 30 years ago, they’re often the sole breadwinners in their families, and the minimum wage has not kept up with the economy,” Larsen said. “This is an effort to try to pick up that pace a little bit.” Larsen also argued that the United States needs to invest in transportation infrastructure and education to create jobs and grow the economy in the long run. Larsen wrote an op-ed for The Bellingham Herald on the minimum wage this weekend.
01.20.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding Kenneth Bae, the Lynnwood man who has been detained in North Korea for more than a year. “The United States has repeatedly shown we are eager to work with North Korea and our international partners to secure Kenneth’s return home. A State Department special envoy agreed to visit North Korea in August to secure his release, but was rebuffed at the last possible minute. “North Korea’s publicity stunts aside, we continue our call on North Korea to grant Kenneth a pardon and special amnesty so he can come home to his family. I stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Kenneth’s family and the U.S. State Department as we work together to ensure his safe return home.”
01.18.2014	BY RICK LARSEN Growing up in Arlington, a lot of my friends worked minimum-wage jobs. I worked at a bookbindery during high school, pulling in about $3.50 an hour during the summer break. That image of a high school student working a few hours a week for some extra cash is the idea that a lot of us get when we think about the minimum wage. Opponents of raising the minimum wage use that antiquated portrait to oppose wage increases today. They say a higher wage hurts businesses only to put a few extra bucks in the pockets of teenagers. But the reality is that picture falls terribly short in illustrating the reality of the low-wage labor market today. So let's debunk that myth now. The truth is that low-wage workers are older and often the sole breadwinners to support their families. Read the full op-ed here.
01.17.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s proposed reforms to government surveillance programs: “I am pleased the President has realized what I and many others have known for some time: the government’s dragnet collection and storage of telephone and electronic data breaches the basic privacy rights of the American people. “I introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act because the American people should have the right to know what kind of information the government is collecting from them. I have cosponsored other legislation to limit the use of surveillance programs and give proper consideration to privacy and civil liberties. “The President’s proposed reforms address many, but not all of the concerns I have with government surveillance. Congress must not continue to rely on a ‘trust us’ attitude toward the administration. We need to enact tough new laws that protect Americans’ right to privacy and institute strict oversight to make sure that this and future administrations do not abuse their powers.”
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON –The Democratic members of Washington state’s congressional delegation and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announced the details of a friendly wager over the NFC championship game between the San Francisco 49ers and the Seattle Seahawks. As passionate fans and competitive colleagues, the Members of Congress agreed to a battle for bragging rights and local delicacies. If the Seahawks win, Pelosi will provide the Washington delegation with San Francisco sourdough bread from Boudin’s Bakery and chocolate from Ghirardelli and TCHO. If the 49ers win, Pelosi will receive Theo’s chocolate from Congressman Jim McDermott, Brown & Haley Almond Roca toffees from Congressman Adam Smith, Fischer fair scones from Congressman Denny Heck, craft gin from Everett's Bluewater Distilling in Congressman Rick Larsen’s district, Woodinville wine and smoked salmon from Congresswoman Suzan DelBene, and apples from Amy’s Decadent Chocolates courtesy of Congressman Derek Kilmer. “Seattle may try to keep our fans out of their stadium, but they will not keep the 49ers out of their end zone,” said Leader Pelosi. “Apparently, the Seahawks want more of their fans to witness their defeat in person. I’ll be looking forward to savoring the bounty of my friends’ districts as the 49ers seal their return to the Super Bowl.” “We’re looking forward to what is going to be an epic clash this Sunday between two NFC powerhouses fighting for the chance to go to the Super Bowl, and this friendly wager is a fun way to raise the stakes a little bit more in what is already the best rivalry in the NFL today,” said the Washington members. “Considering that the 49ers have been winless in their last two visits to Seattle, we’re very appreciative of the willingness of Leader Pelosi to contribute some Bay Area treats to us.”
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, hailed new investments in export promotion included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act that the House of Representatives passed today. “When we export our products abroad, we create jobs here at home,” Larsen said. “Investments in export promotion are paid back many times over as American businesses find new markets for their products, expand their production and create jobs at home. “One of every three jobs in Washington state is tied to trade. Expanding exports is a proven way of growing our economy and creating new jobs.” Larsen has long advocated for expanding exports. He established a first-of-its-kind District Export Promotion Program in his office to help small businesses in Northwest Washington overcome hurdles to exporting. The Omnibus Appropriations Act includes $8 million in funding for the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program, which provides small businesses with tools to start exporting. The program, which was established as a pilot in 2010, was due to expire this year. Larsen requested continued STEP funding in the bill. He has also proposed the bipartisan Next STEP Act to permanently reauthorize the program. The bill also includes $115.5 million for the Export-Import Bank which helps U.S. businesses finance foreign sales. The bank has supported more than $48 billion in exports from Washington’s 2nd Congressional District since 2007, including support for 15 businesses. Larsen led the effort in 2012 to reauthorize the Export Import Bank. In an effort to attract foreign investment to the United States, the bill also invests $7 million in the Select USA initiative. Select USA complements the efforts of states to show foreign investors why the United States is the right place to expand business and create jobs. The bill also includes funding for these export promotion initiatives: Overseas Private Investment Corps: $89.9 million Trade and Development Agency: $55.1 million U.S. Trade Representative: $52.6 million International Trade Administration: $470 million
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to approve a government funding bill that includes several job-creating investments for which he has long advocated. The Omnibus Appropriations Act provides funding for all federal agencies through September 2014, in line with a bipartisan budget agreement that Congress passed last month. “My top priority in Congress is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “This bill meets that test by directing investments to our roads, bridges and highways, helping small businesses export their products, and protecting our environmental resources in the Northwest. “The United States did not become the most powerful economy in the world by accident. Our leaders have long made targeted investments in our infrastructure, education and research that foster economic growth and innovation. This bill is an important step in getting Congress back on track to investing in our shared prosperity. “After a year of job-killing automatic spending cuts, I am pleased that Congress has returned to taking a rational approach to budgeting. This bill makes targeted cuts and importantly preserves vital investments that strengthen our economy. I hope this process serves as a model for bipartisan cooperation and will break the cycle of manufactured crises and shutdown politics.” A summary of highlights of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Northwest Washington follows. A full summary of the bill is available here. Highlights of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Northwest Washington Investing in our Transportation Infrastructure Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program: $600 million, which is an increase of $100 million from 2013. TIGER grants fund major transportation investment projects. Larsen has introduced a bill called TIGER CUBS to modify the program to direct more of these funds to small and mid-sized cities like those throughout Northwest Washington. New Starts grant program: $1.943 billion, which is an increase of $88 million from 2013. The New Starts program funds major transit capital investments including ferries, rail and buses. Creating Jobs through Exports State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program: $8 million. The STEP program helps small businesses trying to overcome hurdles to exporting. The program, established as a pilot in 2010, was due to expire this year. Larsen and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, introduced a bill last year to permanently reauthorize STEP. Larsen requested continued STEP funding in the Consolidated Appropriations Act. Export-Import Bank of the United States: $115.5 million. The Export-Import Bank helps finance U.S. exports that create jobs at home. The bank has supported more than $48 billion in exports from Washington’s 2nd Congressional District since 2007, including support for 15 businesses. Larsen led the effort in 2012 to reauthorize the Export Import Bank. Select USA: $7 million. Select USA complements the efforts of states to show foreign investors why the United States is the right place to expand business and create jobs. Other export promotion initiatives: Overseas Private Investment Corps: $89.9 million Trade and Development Agency: $55.1 million U.S. Trade Representative: $52.6 million International Trade Administration: $470 million Supporting Small Business Job Growth Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC) programs: $36 million, which is an increase of $10 million from 2013. PTACs help businesses meet requirements for government contracts. Congress recently passed legislation that included provisions put forward by Larsen to help reform the PTAC program to support more small- and medium-sized businesses. Defense Rapid Innovation Program: $175 million. The program helps small businesses access defense contracts. Manufacturing Technology Program: $69 million, which is $34 million above the President’s budget request. The Manufacturing Technology Program supports innovative manufacturing development. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR): $1.8 million. The SBIR program drives defense dollars to small manufacturers so taxpayers benefit from the innovative approaches that small businesses take. Industrial Base Innovation Fund: $75 million. The fund supports investments in innovative technologies. Investing in Students Head Start: $8.6 billion, which is an increase of $612 million over 2013 and includes $500 million to expand Early Head Start. Head Start programs in Northwest Washington suffered due to sequestration’s automatic spending cuts last year. Impact Aid: $1.3 billion, which is an increase of $65 million from 2013 and matches Larsen’s funding request. Impact Aid provides payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes. Larsen has championed Impact Aid in Congress, and introduced bipartisan legislation last year to make the program permanent and speed payments to local districts. Pell Grants: $22.8 billion. Pell Grants help students with financial need attend college. The bill also increases the maximum Pell Grant award by $85 to $5,730. Protecting the Environment and Creating Jobs in the Northwest Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund: $65 million, which is $15 million more than the President’s budget request. Larsen led the effort to secure these funds, leading a letter of 10 representatives requesting the funding in April. Puget Sound recovery efforts: $25 million, more than $7 million above the President’s budget request. Larsen joined other Puget Sound lawmakers in requesting the funds last month. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers: $125 million for general investigations, which is an increase of $7 million from 2013. This is the source of funding for the Skagit River General Investigation (GI) Study which will provide the roadmap for flood control in the Skagit Valley. Strengthening Northwest Washington’s Role in our National Defense Naval Air Station Whidbey Island construction projects: $32 million for EA-18G facility improvements $84 million for P-8A hangar and training facilities $10 million to replace fuel pier breakwater KC-46 Aerial Refueling Tanker: full funding. The KC-46 is being built at the Boeing Everett factory. P-8A Poseidon: full funding. The P-8As are being built by Boeing and are slated to be based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Coast Guard Icebreaker: $2 million for the continued design of a new heavy-duty Coast Guard icebreaker. Larsen is leading efforts in Congress to invest in the nation’s icebreaking fleet. Keeping Our Promise to Veterans Larsen fix to veterans disability rating problem: The bill’s report includes language Larsen authored to address an issue a constituent faced with the Department of Veterans Affairs’ disability rating process. Learn more about the fix here. Cost-of-living adjustments: Repeals a cut to cost-of-living adjustments for disabled military retirees and their survivors. Veterans employment training: $270 million. Veteran medical services: $43.6 billion to provide for approximately 6.5 million patients in 2014. The funds include: $7.2 billion in mental health care services $103 million in suicide prevention activities $246 million for traumatic brain injury treatment $6.2 billion in homeless veterans treatment, services, housing, and job training $250 million in rural health initiatives, continuing the Rural Health Initiative established by Congress in 2009 to ensure that the VA dedicates sufficient resources to reach veterans residing in rural and highly rural areas who do not have immediate access to a veterans medical center or community based outpatient clinic. HUD-VASH: $75 million. The HUD-VASH program provides housing and supportive services for homeless and struggling veterans. This funding has gone to veterans in Snohomish and Skagit counties in recent years. Disability claims processing backlog $140 million, an increase of $20 million above the President’s request for information technology upgrades at regional offices to manage the improved paperless claims processing system $90 million for potential overtime, and $10 million for additional training for claims processors $88 million, a $13 million increase above the President’s request for the Board of Veterans Appeals to address the growing appeals backlog Investing in Healthy and Safe Communities Local law enforcement support: Byrne-JAG grants: $376 million COPS: $214 million. The COPS program had been eliminated in the original House budget proposal, and this funding sets aside grants to put roughly 1,500 new cops on the beat. Violence Against Women Act programs: $417 million. Larsen helped lead efforts to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act last year. Family Violence Prevention: $138 million. The funding includes $4.5 million for a National Domestic violence hotline. Currently 100,000 requests a year for services go unmet and this funding will help meet the needs. Affordable Housing: $27 billion for Section 8 affordable housing support. Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC): $6.7 billion, which is sufficient to meet expected needs in 2014. Community Health Centers: $3.6 billion. The funding includes $350 million for the establishment of new centers and expansion of services at current centers. Child Care and Development Block Grant program: $2.36 billion, which is a $36 million increase from 2013. The grant program helps low-income families afford quality child care. The increase will support services for an estimated 22,000 additional children. National Institutes of Health (NIH): $29.9 billion. The NIH funds life-saving medical research at research hospitals and universities, including in the Puget Sound.
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the Navy’s decision to extend the public comment period for scoping of the EA-18G Environmental Impact Statement to January 31. “This is good news for residents of Whidbey Island and neighboring counties,” Larsen said. “The Navy’s decision to extend the public comment period is a direct response to requests from community members and shows the Navy is participating in this process in good faith. While this extension may not be as long as some had hoped, it gives community members nearly three more weeks to submit comments. I encourage residents to take advantage of this opportunity to share their suggestions and concerns.”
01.13.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in recognition of Korean-American Day. “Northwest Washington is home to a thriving Korean-American community that makes meaningful cultural and economic contributions to the Northwest,” Larsen said. “As we celebrate those contributions, I also recommit myself to working with all cultural communities to break down the barriers for all people to fully participate in our economy and democracy."
01.07.2014	WASHINGTON—Workers in low-wage jobs would receive at least $10.10 an hour if Congress passes a measure that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, cosponsored today. The Fair Minimum Wage Act (H.R. 1010) would increase the federal minimum wage over three years and adjust the wage to keep pace with inflation. “Raising the minimum wage puts money in the pockets of Americans who are working hard to provide for their families and escape poverty,” Larsen said. “It is unacceptable that millions of people are working fulltime at the minimum wage but still fall under the poverty line. “While the economy is recovering from the recession, not all are sharing in the benefits of economic growth. The vast majority of income increases in the last few years have gone to the top earners, while low- and middle-class workers’ wages have stagnated. “A higher minimum wage will help combat rising income inequality, but Congress need to do more to create good paying jobs and advance economic opportunity. We have to renew emergency unemployment insurance benefits, so those who are looking for work do not fall into poverty. We need to invest in education, so the next generation of workers can get the best jobs and grow the economy for all. And we need to refocus on creating good-paying middle class jobs by investing in transportation infrastructure, fueling small business growth and finding new markets to sell American-made products.” The federal minimum wage is currently $7.25 an hour, while Washington state has a minimum wage of $9.32. Independent economists agree that raising the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour would help 4.6 million people leave poverty. The Fair Minimum Wage Act will also increase the federal minimum wage for tipped workers, currently frozen at $2.13 per hour, to 70 percent of the full minimum wage. Washington state already requires the same minimum wage for tipped and non-tipped employees.
01.07.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following basketball player Dennis Rodman’s comments to CNN regarding Lynnwood-resident Kenneth Bae, who has been held in North Korea for more than a year. “Dennis Rodman should stick to basketball and not cast aspersions on a fellow American who is being held by a foreign nation,” Larsen said. “Kenneth Bae and his family have gone through more than enough without having to listen to these hurtful statements from somebody who clearly does not know what he is talking about. “I join the White House in renewing our call for North Korea to grant a pardon and special amnesty for Kenneth and to immediately release him so he can come home to his family. I pledge my continuing support to Kenneth’s family and will continue working with them and the State Department to ensure his safe return home.”
01.04.2014	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers voted to approve a contract offer from Boeing that will bring production of the 777X wing and fuselage to Washington: “Now that the state and union have delivered, it is time for Boeing to hold up its end of the bargain. Washington has shown that we stand behind a strong aerospace industry. Boeing should make the same commitment to our state. “I am pleased the 777X will be made in Washington. It is time to move forward and start the next chapter in our state’s aerospace history.”
12.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is seeking answers to questions that constituents have raised regarding the proposed location for a new Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) facility in Friday Harbor. In a letter to General Services Administration and CBP facilities, Larsen asked about the site-selection process and possible alternatives. “A number of San Juan Island residents have raised concerns that the new CBP facility is in the heart of downtown Friday Harbor’s commercial waterfront,” Larsen wrote. “The community has worked to create a welcoming culture for residents and visitors, and some community members are concerned that the CBP facility will adversely affect the climate. They have also told me they are concerned that they did not have sufficient opportunity to provide input on the location and its potential impact on tourism.” The full text of the letter follows. December 19, 2013 George Northcroft Regional Administrator U.S. General Services Administration, Region 10 400 15th Street SW Auburn, WA 98001 Michael Yeager Assistant Commissioner Office of Congressional Affairs U.S. Customs and Border Protection 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Suite 5.4A Washington, DC 20229 Dear Regional Administrator Northcroft and Assistant Commissioner Yeager: I am writing regarding the new U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) lease in Friday Harbor, WA, and the General Services Administration’s (GSA) process to execute the lease. I have heard from constituents who are concerned about the new location. On their behalf, I would like to ask for clarification on some of the questions they have raised. I respect the work that CBP does to secure our borders and facilitate legal trade and travel. I want to ensure that there is an open dialogue between community members and your agencies, and that all concerns are addressed and mitigated when possible. A number of San Juan Island residents have raised concerns that the new CBP facility is in the heart of downtown Friday Harbor’s commercial waterfront. The community has worked to create a welcoming culture for residents and visitors, and some community members are concerned that the CBP facility will adversely affect the climate. They have also told me they are concerned that they did not have sufficient opportunity to provide input on the location and its potential impact on tourism. I appreciate that GSA and CBP representatives held a public hearing in late November in Friday Harbor to hear concerns and answer many of the questions about the new facility. There are still some outstanding questions, and I request that you provide written responses to them: What was the process and timeline for executing the lease at the new location? What are the guidelines for public input as part of the search process for a lease of this kind? What did CBP require in terms of size and facilities for its new location? How flexible were those requirements when looking for a suitable location? Was this search a competitive process with the consideration of multiple locations? If so, how was the final determination made? Some community members have suggested alternative waterfront locations including a reconstructed Port of Friday Harbor building (following repairs from a recent fire) and the Cannery Landing building immediately adjacent to the ferry terminal. Were these locations considered? If not, why not? After hearing concerns from the public in Friday Harbor, what actions will CBP and GSA take in designing the new facility to fit with the town image and minimize the impact on the downtown commercial corridor if the selected site is the final site? I appreciate your attention to my inquiry and look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Washington State, 2nd District
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Reps. Jim McDermott, D-Wash., Rick Larsen, D-Wash., Suzan DelBene, D-Wash., Denny Heck, D-Wash., and Derek Kilmer, D-Wash., sent a letter to Ways and Means Chair David Camp and Ranking Member Sander Levin asking for an extension of the state and local sales tax deduction that is set to expire January 1. “Extending the sales tax deduction is critical to ensuring equal tax treatment for residents of states that do not assess an income tax,” wrote the members. “If the deduction is not extended, millions of taxpayers living in states without an income tax will shoulder a larger share of the federal tax burden since they cannot claim the dedication.” Without an income tax, Washington state residents pay a higher sales tax, which can disproportionately hurt families and individuals with lower incomes. Nearly one third of Washington taxpayers use the deduction, the highest rate in the nation. According to the Pew Charitable Trusts, allowing the sales tax deduction to expire could cost the average Washington state taxpayer who itemizes $600. By extending the sales tax deduction, Washingtonians, and others in states’ without income taxes, will pay a fairer share of taxes. Read the full letter here.
12.19.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources (ENR) Committee voted to advance a bill from Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to preserve the historic Green Mountain Lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness near Darrington, Washington. Senator Cantwell, a member of the ENR Committee, voted in support of the bill – which passed the committee by a voice vote. The Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act (S. 404) now heads to the full Senate for consideration. Senators Murray and Cantwell introduced the Green Mountain bill on February 28, 2013. U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) introduced companion legislation (H.R. 908) in the House. “I’m proud to have voted today to advance this bill to allow future generations to enjoy the historic Green Mountain Lookout,” Cantwell said. “For 80 years, this scenic lookout has stood atop Green Mountain. Our bill would keep the Green Mountain Lookout where it belongs, for Northwest hikers, historians and outdoor enthusiasts to enjoy. I will keep working with Senator Murray and Representatives DelBene and Larsen to pass this bill into law.” “Green Mountain Lookout is an important part of our state’s history, and it’s cherished by the local community,” Murray said. “I am so pleased this legislation is moving to the full Senate for a vote, and I will continue working to preserve the lookout for future generations.” “Thanks to the leadership of Senators Cantwell and Murray, today we are one step closer to saving the historic Green Mountain Lookout,” DelBene said. “It’s time for the House to move forward on the companion legislation and allow a floor vote so we can protect this iconic landmark once and for all.” “The Green Mountain Lookout belongs in one spot: on Green Mountain,” Larsen said. “I applaud Sen. Cantwell’s work to advance this important bill in the Senate, and I look forward to working with Rep. DelBene to get this law passed in 2014.” The need for the legislation arose after a Montana-based group sued the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) for using a helicopter and machinery to repair the Green Mountain Lookout. Subsequently in 2012, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington ordered that the USFS needed to move forward with the lookout’s removal. During World War II the Green Mountain Lookout, located in the Glacier Peak Wilderness within the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, served as an early warning station to detect enemy aircraft. Today it is one of only 16 remaining fire lookouts originally managed by the USFS in Northwest Washington. The introduction of the bill followed an unsuccessful legal challenge to the District Court’s decision. Senators and Representatives from Washington had sent a letter in May 2012 to Tom Vilsack, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, urging the department to use all legal means necessary to preserve the Green Mountain Lookout’s location in the Glacier Peak Wilderness.
12.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the U.S. Surface Transportation Board’s decision to continue allowing train operators to take measures to limit coal dust escaping into the environment. Larsen called on the Surface Transportation Board to make this decision last year. “We should make sure that coal producers and transporters use commonsense precautions to protect communities from coal dust,” Larsen said. “I am pleased that the Surface Transportation Board took this step that will help protect the well-being of residents and the environment along train routes.” In a July 2012 letter, Larsen wrote, “(I)t seems common sense that rail operators carrying coal should be permitted to take all measures necessary to ensure the safety of that cargo and the public health of the communities they travel through … I have heard from many of my constituents who are concerned about potential health effects from current coal train traffic. Any steps that can help alleviate these concerns are positive ones.” Downloads » July 2012 - Letter to STB on Coal Dust
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the breakdown in negotiations between Boeing and IAM 751. “I was highly encouraged when Boeing and the Machinists restarted talks this week, and I am deeply disappointed that they appear to have fallen apart. “I have spent a lot of time speaking with, and listening to Boeing and Machinists leaders and members. I know that members want Boeing to stay in the Puget Sound and I know they want to protect their hard-fought benefits and wages. As someone who grew up in a labor household in Snohomish County, I understand and respect the difficult choice the Machinists must make. “It is my assessment that Boeing needs to control its costs so it can continue to lead in an increasingly competitive environment. I think that future production at the Everett factory is imperiled without a labor agreement. If Boeing moves production of the 777X away from Everett, the future of all large-scale aerospace manufacturing in Washington state would be in doubt. “To date, I have avoided telling Machinists how and when they should vote, so I hope I have the credibility to make this statement: the time to vote is now. “I urge IAM 751 leaders to let their members vote on the contract offer from Boeing.”
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, successfully included several provisions in a bill passed today setting policy for the Department of Defense. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee which wrote the bill, included measures that support the Northwest economy and improve the national defense. “This defense bill meets the needs of our sailors and aviators in Northwest Washington and our troops around the world,” Larsen said. “The provisions I included in this bill will strengthen the economy in Northwest Washington and make our nation stronger.” The bill includes language that Larsen introduced to help small- and medium-sized businesses secure government contracts. The language will lower costs and increase funding for Procurement Technical Assistance Centers (PTACs) which help businesses meet requirements for government contracts. The PTAC in Washington state has helped more than 2,200 businesses secure $222 million in government contracts and subcontracts since 2011, creating or retaining thousands of jobs. “Small- and medium-sized businesses often provide the best products at the lowest costs,” Larsen said. “Because of complex contracting requirements, these businesses often need assistance to compete for government projects. My language in this bill will help more businesses compete for government contracts. It will help companies grow and create jobs, and it will get the best products at the lowest costs to federal, state and local agencies.” The defense bill also includes funding for several defense programs in Northwest Washington, including: full funding ($3.2 billion) for the P-8A Poseidon program (all seven Pacific squadrons of the Boeing-built Poseidons are slated to be based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island); full funding ($1.6 billion) for the KC-46 refueling tanker which is being constructed at Boeing’s Everett Factory; and full funding for three construction projects at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, including $32.482 million for EA-18G facility improvements, $85.176 million for P-8A facilities and $10 million to replace the fuel pier breakwater. The bill also includes two amendments that Larsen authored which will: designate a senior official within the Department of Defense to facilitate the transfer of prisoners detained at Guantanamo Bay; and restore funding to research and development in the nuclear nonproliferation budgets at the Department of Energy and Department of Defense. The defense bill includes 30 provisions to reduce sexual assaults in the military which will strip commanders of their ability to dismiss findings of court martials, prohibit commanders from reducing sentences, allow victims to apply for permanent changes of station and provide victims access to special counsels. “Sexual assault is not acceptable in any circumstances,” Larsen said. “I am pleased Congress is taking some important steps to counter the scourge of sexual violence in our military, but we have much more to do. The armed services need to aggressively combat sexual assault at all levels. From the lowest enlistee to the top brass, every member of the military must embrace a zero-tolerance policy for any form of sexual assault. Congress must take greater action if the Pentagon’s efforts fall short.” The defense bill, which the House passed today, must be approved by the Senate before being signed into law by the President.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the compromise budget deal. “People in Northwest Washington have been asking for Democrats and Republicans to work together. This budget is a product of that collaboration. After too many years of brinkmanship and political games, this budget sets a path forward to get Congress back to work on real issues we need to address. The deal is not perfect, but compromises rarely are. “I am pleased the budget undoes a large part of the automatic across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration. These indiscriminate cuts were always a bad idea, kicking kids out of Head Start in Everett and Skagit County, sending hundreds of thousands of military civilian personnel on unpaid furloughs, and halting life-saving research at hospitals in the Puget Sound. “The budget takes a balanced approach, cutting spending and increasing revenue to cut the deficit. I have long pursued such an approach because it is the only reasonable and fair way to set a budget and tackle our deficit. “If Congress passes this budget and then follows through with spending bills by the middle of January, we will avoid the threat of more government shutdowns and fiscal cliffs. Breaking this cycle of shutdown politics will give Congress time to debate other issues that have been put on the backburner. At the top of that list is reforming our broken immigration system in a way that treats people fairly and helps grow our economy. And Congress needs to get serious about investing in our roads, bridges and highways and creating jobs by seeking new markets for American-made products. “I am disappointed that this budget does not extend unemployment insurance that is due to expire for 25,000 people in Washington state at the end of the month. These benefits are a lifeline that keep people in their homes as they look for jobs. Congress should work on coming to an agreement to extend these benefits early next year.”
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking member of the Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the subcommittee’s hearing on the “State of American Aviation.” The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing on the State of American Aviation. Mr. Chairman, this hearing provides us with an excellent opportunity to look back on 2013, and the challenges and successes we have had in our first year as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. Without a doubt, 2013 has been a tough year for aviation here in Washington, DC. We started the year at odds over sequestration, with our aviation system caught in the middle. In April, air traffic controller furloughs caused by sequestration led to a rash of flight delays, and Congress raided the airport capital improvement grant program to put controllers back to work. Then again in October, the FAA was partially shut down for sixteen days, and 12,000 FAA employees were furloughed. FAA employees wasted countless hours planning the 2013 furloughs, the sequester budget and the shutdown. Mr. Chairman, we called this hearing to explore the state of American aviation. Simply put, American aviation cannot afford the American government to keep doing business the way it did in 2013. We need balanced and responsible solutions for our fiscal and budgetary issues. Yet, Mr. Chairman, while we started this year under difficult circumstances, you and I have continued to work in the bipartisan way we have always worked. And we are ending this year with bipartisan accomplishments that we should be proud of, and that bode well for the work we will be doing together during the next FAA reauthorization. Looking forward, the force of globalization and the growth of emerging international markets present both opportunities and challenges for American aviation. We simply can’t write a reauthorization bill for 2015 without taking a look at what’s happening elsewhere in the world. According to the International Monetary Fund, GDP in emerging economies is growing at approximately 6 percent per year, while in advanced economies, such as the United States, GDP is only growing at approximately 2 percent. Earlier this year, Governor Inslee asked me to attend the Paris Air Show in his stead. That event made it crystal clear: the aviation industry is global, it is competitive, and there are new entrants in the market every day. What happens in Shanghai, Dubai, New Delhi, Moscow, and Bueno Aires matters here in the United States. The Chinese national aviation authority indicated that traffic to, from, and within China increased 10.6 percent in 2012 alone. Over the next twenty years, Boeing predicts China will need nearly 6,000 new airplanes. The emergence of new international markets is already having an impact on U.S. aviation. U.S. manufacturers are adjusting their strategies to target new customers in emerging international markets. In my home state of Washington, the aerospace industry is the largest exporting sector by dollar value, accounting for $27 billion of the state’s total $64.6 billion in exports in 2011. Similarly, U.S. airlines are drawing an increasing amount of their revenue from international flights. In the year 2000, U.S. legacy airlines earned an average of 25 percent of their system-wide revenue from international services. Today, international services constitute almost 40 percent of their system-wide revenue. Congress and the administration must ensure that American aviation can compete effectively in a global marketplace, while protecting and preserving a strong middle class aviation workforce here at home. And, Mr. Chairman, together we took important steps this year to enhance the American aviation industry’s global competitiveness. For example, the Aviation Subcommittee led the effort this year to enact H.R. 1848, the bipartisan “Small Airplane Revitalization Act of 2013”. This new law requires the FAA to update its small airplane certification regulations, enabling U.S. manufacturers to more quickly bring new technologies to market both in the U.S. and internationally. Likewise, Mr. Chairman, the Aviation Subcommittee conducted important oversight hearings this year examining the FAA’s certification process. Based on issues raised at these hearings, yesterday you and I requested that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) undertake a comparative study of U.S. certification processes relative to our international trading partners. If we can glean lessons from international regulatory agencies which lead to a more efficient U.S. certification process, then we should apply those lessons. But always, we must maintain the highest level of safety in our process. Mr. Chairman, you and I also asked the GAO to examine challenges faced by U.S. aircraft manufacturers when navigating foreign certification processes. FAA certification is the gold standard for safety. Therefore, the U.S. government must “stand behind its brand” when U.S. manufactures receive FAA certifications, but encounter red tape doing business in foreign markets. I appreciate the Chairman’s focus on safety. Safety is the FAA’s top priority and it is mine as well. The need to maintain our focus on aviation safety was made clear with the crash of Asiana Flight 214 in July. We must learn from this tragedy and do everything we can to prevent it in the future. One way that we moved forward on safety was with the finalization of rules for pilot training and experience. These represent significant safety improvements from lessons we learned from the fatal Colgan Air crash. I am proud that we worked together with the families from that tragedy to put stronger safety rules in place. But as always, there will continue to be work to be done to make sure the skies are safe. Where the aviation industry faces global challenges, like climate change, these challenges should be addressed through international cooperation. That is why, last month, the bipartisan leadership of this Committee sent a letter urging Secretary Foxx to hold U.S. carriers harmless from a proposed unilateral European Union Emissions Trading Scheme. The United Nations International Civil Aviation Organization has set forth a multilateral process for developing a global approach to aviation emissions. The international community has spoken on this issue through the United Nations, and the European Union should be discouraged from “going it alone.” Additionally, while the American aviation industry must benefit from the growth of global markets, we must also ensure that globalization does not harm the American aviation workforce. Earlier this year, the administration announced that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) will attempt to negotiate a comprehensive Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with the European Union. Historically, international air transport services agreements have been negotiated bilaterally by the Department of State and the Department of Transportation, under the oversight of this Subcommittee. Issues such as foreign ownership and control of U.S. airlines have serious implications for American workers and U.S. national security. The Departments of State and Transportation possess the necessary expertise to negotiate on behalf of the U.S. aviation industry and its employees on a bilateral basis. Therefore, I do not believe that air transport service agreements should be considered in the context a comprehensive trade agreement negotiated by the USTR. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses about these issues and others that are important to address during the upcoming FAA reauthorization.
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON—Citing “miles wide and miles deep” support for aerospace manufacturing, Washington’s federal delegation today made their case in a letter to The Boeing Company to base 777X production in Washington state. The state’s delegation of two senators and 10 representatives told Boeing that when it comes to aerospace, “no state’s federal delegation can compare to our enthusiasm and commitment.” “Our state’s history of aviation excellence, our experienced workforce, our delegation’s track record of supporting the aerospace industry in the state, and our leaders’ unwavering commitment to supporting growth in aviation make Washington the right place to bring the production of the 777X and its composite wing,” the members wrote. The letter is signed by Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, WA-05, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Jaime Herrera Beutler, WA-03, Doc Hastings, WA-04, Derek Kilmer, WA-06, Jim McDermott, WA-07, Dave Reichert, WA-08, Adam Smith, WA-09, and Denny Heck, WA-10. The text of the letter follows. A PDF copy of the letter is available here. December 10, 2013 Jim McNerney, Jr. Chairman, President and CEO The Boeing Company 100 North Riverside Chicago, Illinois 60606 Ray Conner President and CEO Boeing Commercial Airplanes 100 North Riverside Chicago, Illinois 60606 Dear Mr. McNerney and Mr. Conner: As The Boeing Company considers where to base production of the 777X, we want you to know that our delegation supports state and local leaders who are working to keep and bring production to Washington state. Washington is the aerospace capital of the world, and our delegation is committed to ensuring that the aerospace industry can continue to grow in Washington state. For the last century, Boeing and Washington state have been true partners. Thanks to this successful partnership, the women and men at Boeing and its suppliers in Washington state make the best airplanes in the world. While we recognize that the Boeing Company faces an increasingly competitive environment and must undertake a thorough process to determine where to place production, we are confident that a full analysis of options will show that Washington state stands apart from the competition. Regarding aerospace, no state’s federal delegation can compare to our enthusiasm and commitment. The Washington delegation voted unanimously to extend authority for the Export-Import Bank. We fought hard to make the KC-46A refueling tanker a reality. We are focused on opening new markets through trade, on investing in our skilled workforce, on building and maintaining a strong transportation infrastructure, and on prioritizing defense dollars on American products. We are the aerospace industry’s strongest allies and loudest advocates in Congress. That is why we have been focused on promoting policies that serve the aerospace industry and its workers. Our delegation leads when it matters most. We: Led the fight to land the Air Force’s KC-46A Refueling Tanker contract for Boeing; Led the successful 2012 reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank; Voted unanimously for the Korea and Panama trade agreements; Helped secure the creation of a national Center of Excellence for jet biofuel research in Washington state; and Landed a $20 million federal workforce training grant to train more than 2,600 workers in advanced manufacturing/composites, electronics/avionics, aircraft assembly and aircraft maintenance. We are tackling the major policy challenges facing the aerospace industry in the decades to come. We are focused on: Reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank; Investing in STEM education and higher education programs to educate the next generation of Washington aerospace workers; Completing the Next Generation Air Transportation System; Moving FAA’s certification reforms forward to ensure timely manufacturing to market; Locating an Unmanned Aircraft Systems test facility in Washington state; Reforming the Harbor Maintenance Tax so transporting parts is efficient and affordable; and Meeting federal responsibilities to invest in roads, bridges, highways, and runways to make business more accessible. Our state’s history of aviation excellence, our experienced workforce, our delegation’s track record of supporting the aerospace industry in the state, and our leaders’ unwavering commitment to supporting growth in aviation make Washington the right place to bring the production of the 777X and its composite wing. We are committed to continue investing in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. We accomplish this by supporting local initiatives with particular emphasis on innovation, transportation, trade, exports and manufacturing. We will continue to look for ways to expand higher education, job skills and training opportunities. Working in concert with local governments and regional economic development organizations, we identify long-range growth opportunities and provide support where appropriate. As our delegation’s support illustrates, support for aerospace manufacturing in Washington is not just statewide, it is miles wide and miles deep. Aerospace manufacturing creates jobs in every corner of the state. With senior positions on key Congressional committees, including Transportation and Infrastructure, Armed Services, Financial Services, Appropriations, Budget, Ways and Means, Veteran’s Affairs, Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), Finance, Energy and Natural Resources, Commerce and Science, Space and Technology, we are uniquely positioned to work with key stakeholders to further the aerospace industry in Washington state. We look forward to working with you and our state’s leaders to bring the 777X to Washington. Sincerely, Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Senator Rick Larsen Member of Congress Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Doc Hastings Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Dave Reichert Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Downloads » Delegation Letter to Boeing on the 777X
12.09.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, told a Congressional committee today that the renewal of the Columbia River Treaty should benefit Northwest Washington residents. In statement submitted to the House Natural Resources Committee for their field hearing on the treaty in Pasco, Larsen wrote, “The Columbia River does not reach my district, but it has far-reaching effects on my constituents. It provides affordable, clean hydropower to ratepayers in Everett, it provides salmon for fishers in Anacortes, and it provides the power that supports aluminum manufacturing jobs in Whatcom County. For all these reasons, it is critical to continue mutually beneficial management with Canada of the Columbia River.” Larsen’s full statement follows: Statement by Congressman Rick LarsenCongressman, Washington 2nd DistrictHouse Natural Resources Committee Field HearingDecember 9, 2013Pasco, WA Chairman Hastings and Ranking Member DeFazio, Thank you for the opportunity to provide a statement for the House Natural Resources Committee’s field hearing on the Columbia River Treaty (CRT). While I could not be with the Committee today, renewal of the CRT is very important to many groups in my district and I appreciate the Committee’s attention to this issue. The Columbia River does not reach my district, but it has far-reaching effects on my constituents. It provides affordable, clean hydropower to ratepayers in Everett, it provides salmon for fishers in Anacortes, and it provides the power that supports aluminum manufacturing jobs in Whatcom County. For all these reasons, it is critical to continue mutually beneficial management with Canada of the Columbia River. I appreciate the work the U.S. Entity has done in creating a public process to make a consensus recommendation to the Department of State regarding the CRT. The Entity’s draft recommendation makes it clear that there are improvements that can be made, most importantly noting that U.S. ratepayers are paying more than their fair share for the incremental power benefit from the coordinated U.S.-Canada management of the river. Any changes to the Treaty should benefit these ratepayers and should not increase their costs. I am hopeful that in their final recommendation, the U.S. Entity fully reflects the diverse interests and priorities of rights holders, as well as other beneficiaries and users of the Columbia River – including Native American tribes, ratepayers, businesses, water users, ports, recreational users, navigation interests and downriver residents. It is vital that future management decisions surrounding the Columbia River are made in a consensus way by the communities in the Pacific Northwest, not by officials 3,000 miles away in Washington, DC. The Northwest delegation has repeatedly made it clear that the complicated issues around the Columbia River are best settled by our constituents who live and work here. I believe the administration understands this, and I know this emphasis will remain a key priority for both the Chairman and Ranking Member. Considering the Columbia River Treaty was written at a time when color TV was a thing of the future, it certainly can be modernized. The addition of ecosystem benefits as a key part of the treaty has potential to provide new benefits for fish habitats and meeting tribal treaty responsibilities. However, we should not overlook the decades of effort and billions of dollars that have already been invested in salmon restoration. That money comes from folks who pay their electricity bill every month and have a number of other bills to pay for. As a result, this year’s salmon returns to the Columbia River are at record levels. Any new ecosystem improvements being suggested should be clearly defined, and the costs and funding sources for any of these improvements should be closely detailed. We should also know who is paying for those improvements. I do not believe that we should pass additional costs for ecosystem benefits on to everyday folks who are already paying $700 million each year through BPA for similar efforts. We should not offer a blank check to ill-defined “ecosystem” measures without being completely clear about the specific goals, legal responsibilities and scientific backing for such measures. Thank you again for your leadership on this issue. I look forward to working with you to ensure a regional approach to ensure the Columbia River Treaty is a continued success.
12.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the news that North Korea released Merrill Newman, one of two American citizens it was detaining. The second, Lynnwood-resident Kenneth Bae, has been held in the country for more than a year. “I share in the happiness of Mr. Newman’s family over North Korea’s decision to release him,” Larsen said. “I remain deeply disappointed that North Korea is continuing to detain Kenneth Bae after more than a year. “I join the State Department in renewing our call for North Korea to grant a pardon and special amnesty for Kenneth and to immediately release him so he can come home to his family. I pledge my continuing support to Kenneth’s family and will continue working with them and the State Department to ensure his safe return home.”
12.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to pass the Innovation Act, a bill that would crack down on entities that abuse the patent system to make money from other people’s innovations. These patent assertion entities—often referred to as patent trolls—cost American businesses an estimated $29 billion a year. “Small businesses are a key engine of job growth and innovation for our economy,” Larsen said. “Too often small businesses are slammed with false patent infringement claims, which cost millions to litigate in court. Many small businesses feel they have no choice but to pay licensing fees for their own innovations because they cannot afford to defend themselves in court. “I voted for the Innovation Act because it will increase transparency in patent infringement cases and let the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office help small businesses protect their property. This bill will help small businesses continue to innovate, creating new products and new jobs.” To learn more about the Innovation Act, click here.
12.04.2013	WASHINGTON—Calling it “a life saver,” residents across Northwest Washington are finding quality affordable health care coverage through the Affordable Care Act. With more than 175,000 people already signed up for new coverage through Washington Healthplanfinder, many residents are finding they qualify for quality health care for the first time in years. Constituents have sent messages to Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, asking him to fight against efforts to repeal the law and sharing their personal stories of enrolling in health care coverage. Some of those stories are summarized below. Larsen highlighted these successes in a video message to constituents. “I know there have been problems with this rollout, but the crisis in health care in this country is not a website that doesn’t work. The crisis is that 48 million people are uninsured,” Larsen said. “A constituent named Liz, from Bellingham, Washington, told me she was angry when she found out her insurance company was cancelling her plan,” Larsen continued. “She was angry. Until she logged on to Washington’s health insurance marketplace and found better coverage at a better price. Now, she tells me, she’s ‘a happy camper.’ “Sharon in Friday Harbor was another person who received a cancellation notice from her insurer. She’s not upset though. She found insurance that will save her $3,000 a year. She told me, ‘I hope there’s no backtracking.’ I hope so too.” A sampling of Northwest Washington residents’ stories is available here and below: Bob (Bellingham): “I am on Medicare, but my wife signed up, we are very happy with the coverage, she is a newspaper carrier and hasn't had health insurance for years, finally we have coverage for her, thank you for your support of the ACA, it is a life saver.” (11/19/13 via Facebook) Leslie (Marysville): “I know the new healthcare plans are causing stress and confusion but for someone who hasn't had health insurance for over 3 years a start is better than no start. People need to relax and give it a chance. I am sure it will need tweaking but change often does.” (11/15/13 via Facebook) Sharon (Friday Harbor): “I am one of those who received a cancellation notice. I found a much better, more affordable plan on the WA Healthplanfinder plan website. $2,500 deductible instead of $5,000 and better prescription coverage. Less total out of pocket. I'll be saving more than $3,000 per year. The WA health exchange website is very well done. I hope there is no backtracking.” (11/15/13 via e-mail) Liz (Bellingham): “I was one of those people that were angry that I was going to lose my existing coverage and then I logged onto Washington's site and found I was going to get better coverage at a better price. Now I am a happy camper!” (11/15/13 via Facebook) Kristi (Anacortes): “I've had a bad policy as long as I've been on the individual insurance market; at one time it was affordable, but after tripling in the last 8 years, the premiums were gobbling up 20-25% of our AGI. So when I first checked the exchange plans I was horrified to see premiums 57% higher, at best. Then hugely relieved to learn that at my income level I qualify for a tax credit. I will be paying just slightly less for better coverage.” (11/15/13 via Facebook) Betsy (Clinton): “It is easy to see that this alone would greatly benefit our family moving forward and I'm sure I can speak for many other Americans.” (10/15/13 via e-mail) Susan (Lopez Island): “Please fight for the Affordable Care Act - My husband has just been diagnosed with cancer. His current insurance provider is making this a very difficult experience for us. We will be changing his insurance effective Jan. 1, but without the Affordable Healthcare Act we could not do this because he now has a preexisting condition. We need this protection.” (9/17/13 via e-mail) Lee (Lynnwood): Lee told our office that he hasn’t been fully insured since 2010. He’s diabetic and had a heart attack last year, but hasn’t been able to find affordable health insurance. He and his wife are employed part time and don’t have insurance through their employers. Through Washington Healthplanfinder, Lee and his wife have signed up for full coverage starting in January and feel that the Affordable Care Act is the best thing that has happened in the country for years. (10/30/13 via phone call) Rod (Bellingham): “He and his wife will pay $457 a month for a plan that will cover both of them, thanks to a tax credit. That's better than the $533 monthly premium he now pays just to cover himself, while the deductibles will be about the same. ‘It's a much better plan than either of us had had before,’ the 63-year-old Burton said, adding that his new plan will have needed prescription coverage, unlike his old plan. ‘I'm thrilled.’ (11/17/13 via Bellingham Herald) Mary (Snohomish): “Mary Chonzena left smiling. ‘This is wonderful,’ she said. Chonzena had just stepped out of a mobile van parked at Everett Plaza Thursday afternoon, part of a statewide effort to help people who don’t have health insurance sign up. Chonzena, 53, of Snohomish, said it's been five years since she's had health insurance. ‘My husband retired and is done working,’ she said. He's gotten health care through the Veterans Administration. ‘I had no insurance,’ she said. Chonzena came to Thursday's event to get more information on buying health insurance and said she'll do a little more shopping before making her choice. ‘It went so smoothly,’ she said.” (11/8/13 via Everett Herald) Sandra (Skagit County): “I was able to sign up without much problem. I'm thrilled that I will be able to get the subsidized Premera Silver plan for $150 a month with a $300 deductible. I was laid off 12/31/2013 due to budget cuts and the COBRA plan I was on with a $1,500 deductible was going up to $490/month 1/1/2014, and COBRA coverage would have run out 12/31/2014. Thank you for helping ensure that people like me will be able to have health coverage through the ACA!” (11/20/13 via Facebook) Downloads » Getting Covered in Northwest Washington: Success Stories in Their Own Words
12.04.2013	By Rick Larsen THERE’S a race across the Arctic, and the United States is losing. A half-century after racing the Russians to the moon, the U.S. is barely suiting up in the international race to secure interests in the Arctic. Russia, Canada and other nations are investing heavily. We are behind and falling further back. A lot of people in Washington, D.C., still think about the United States as an Atlantic nation. Those of us on the West Coast know we are an Asia-Pacific nation. Too few realize we are also an Arctic nation, an oversight that has translated to a failure to invest in our national interests in the region. Global warming is breaking up the Arctic ice pack. This melting has enormous environmental consequences for the entire world. It also has significant strategic and economic implications for the United States. To secure our interests in the Arctic, we need to make sure our ships — both military and commercial — can traverse the icy seas. To do that, they need a fleet of special ships equipped to break the ice to establish safe shipping lanes. An independent study commissioned by the U.S. Coast Guard found that the U.S. needs three heavy icebreakers and three medium icebreakers to meet its minimum statutory missions. But we only have one of each in operation today. And our heavy icebreaker, the USCGC Polar Star, is already seven years past its 30-year service life. The Arctic is fast becoming the 21st-century version of the Northwest Passage. Just four years ago, two German ships followed a Russian icebreaker to complete the first commercial shipment across the Arctic. Last year, with the warmest Arctic summer on record, 46 ships made the crossing. Estimates show that commerce through the Arctic may increase eightfold to 30 million tons of cargo by 2020. The appeal is clear: The Arctic route is thousands of miles shorter than traditional options, saving a lot of time and money. Other countries are getting ready. Russia has 22 government-owned icebreakers and just started building another that will be the world’s largest. In a clear statement to the international community about its intentions, the Russians used one of their nuclear icebreakers and a submarine to plant a Russian flag at the North Pole in 2007. China, which does not even have a direct Arctic link, is now building its second Arctic icebreaker. Sweden and Finland have four each. The Coast Guard’s two icebreakers do not meet the minimum capability we need. Under tight budgetary restraints, it is not surprising the Coast Guard is hesitant to request the $1 billion it would need to build a new heavy-duty icebreaker. These budget requests can crowd out other priorities. Last year, U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash, and I added a requirement to a Coast Guard authorization bill requiring an analysis of the best way to meet its icebreaking needs. The Coast Guard presented that report last month, and it offers a way forward. The analysis shows the Coast Guard can rehabilitate and reactivate the heavy-duty USCGC Polar Sea icebreaker, currently sitting in mothballs in a Seattle shipyard, at a fraction of the cost of building a new icebreaker now. Congress needs to take advantage of this opportunity by ordering the rehabilitation of the Polar Sea and immediately start planning to build the next generation icebreaker fleet. The consequences of waiting are not abstract. We are already suffering the consequences of our failure to invest in an icebreaking fleet. It is not the story of the United States to sit idly by while other countries take advantage of new opportunities. That should not be the case in the Arctic. The administration and Congress need to rejuvenate our icebreaker fleet and show we are ready to live up to our status as an Arctic nation. U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Everett, serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Originally published in the Seattle Times.
12.04.2013	Lawmakers Seek to Ensure FAA Conducts Open Rulemaking Process, Not Arbitrary Dictation of New Standards for Pilots Affected by Sleep Disorders WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Subcommittee on Aviation Chairman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) and Ranking Member Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded committee passage of their bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3578) to ensure the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) conducts an open rulemaking process before making changes to medical certification requirements for pilots with sleep disorders. “Safety remains my and the subcommittee’s top priority. While sleep apnea has never been identified as a primary cause or contributing factor of an aviation accident, health issues can arise unexpectedly which is why I have always supported reasonable, effective, and proactive efforts to improve aviation safety,” said Chairman LoBiondo. “Should a revision to existing policies on sleep disorders be warranted, then the FAA should engage in an open rulemaking process to ensure all viewpoints, including those of medical experts, are heard and carefully considered.” “When it comes to flying, safety is my top priority,” Ranking Member Larsen said. “The FAA needs to address the issue of sleep apnea in an open and transparent way that lets all stakeholders and safety experts provide input. I thank Chairman LoBiondo for his leadership on this issue and I look forward to working with the FAA, pilots, airlines and others to continue making flying safer.” Current FAA requirements dictate a pilot or air traffic controller diagnosed with sleep apnea to report their condition and seek treatment. The Aviation Medical Examiners Guide – a comprehensive document detailing the FAA’s medical certification regulations, dispositions, and protocols – includes an established process that provides the FAA with the authority to issue or re-issue an airman medical certificate to an applicant that is diagnosed with sleep apnea. After a review process, the FAA ultimately decides whether or not to issue a medical certificate. In November, FAA officials announced their intent to subject all pilots with a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or more - who might be at risk of having a sleep disorder even in the absence of any clinical evidence - to potentially expensive testing and evaluation. The FAA also indicated their intention to eventually broaden this policy to apply to air traffic controllers and possibly to pilots with a lower BMI. The LoBiondo-Larsen legislation approved today does not prohibit the FAA from implementing new medical certification requirements for sleep apnea. It does, however, require the agency to conduct an open rulemaking process if they choose to propose new sleep disorder requirements. Modeled after similar legislation (H.R. 3095) signed into law on October 15th affecting commercial truck drivers, H.R. 3578, introduced by LoBiondo and Larsen with Representatives Larry Bucshon (IN-08), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03) and Sam Graves (MO-06) as original cosponsors, was marked up and approved by the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure today. It now heads to the full House for consideration.
11.22.2013	Hi, I’m Congressman Rick Larsen. Here in Congress, a lot of folks still want to stop the Affordable Care Act. Republicans tell us that because a website isn’t working, the law never will. Republicans tell us that this law will cost billions, when the nonpartisan scorekeepers tell us that simply isn’t true. Republicans tell us this law is so distasteful that they would rather shut down the government than let it move forward. But you know what they’re not telling us? That thousands of people across the country, including more than 98,000 people in Washington state, are signing up for good quality health coverage. Now, I know there have been problems with this rollout, but the crisis in health care in this country is not a website that doesn’t work. The crisis is that 48 million people are uninsured. A constituent named Liz, from Bellingham, Washington; she told me she was angry when she found out her insurance company was cancelling her plan. She was angry. Until she logged on to Washington’s health insurance marketplace and found better coverage at a better price. Now, she tells me, she’s, “a happy camper.” Sharon in Friday Harbor was another person who received a cancellation notice from her insurer. She’s not upset though because she found insurance that will save her $3,000 a year. She told me, “I hope there’s no backtracking.” Well I hope so too. But the Affordable Care Act is about more than saving money. It’s about saving lives. That’s what Susan from Lopez Island told me. Her husband was just diagnosed with cancer, and they’re having a difficult experience with their current insurance provider. They’ll be switching in January, something she points out is only possible because of the Affordable Care Act’s ban on denying coverage because of preexisting conditions. And a Lynnwood resident named Lee hasn’t been fully insured since he left his job in 2010. He is diabetic and had a heart attack last year. He and his wife have part-time jobs that don’t offer insurance, and they haven’t been able to find affordable insurance. So, when the health insurance marketplace launched last month, he was pretty skeptical. So he called the helpline a couple times and got through the sign-up process. Come the New Year, Lee and his wife will be fully insured for the first time in years. Now I’m not here to make excuses. The implementation of the Affordable Care Act has had huge problems for which actual people, not a website, but actual people are responsible. Congress needs to hold these people accountable. But does that mean we scrap the law? No. Does Congress tell Liz, Sharon, Susan and Lee they’re out of luck? No. Do we go back to discriminating against people with preexisting conditions? Do we go back to capping the amount of health care you can get each year? Do we go back to charging women more than men for the care they need? Absolutely not. So on behalf of Liz and Sharon, Susan and Lee, and the thousands of others across Northwest Washington who want better, more affordable health care, I’m going to continue standing against these Republican efforts to attack the Affordable Care Act. It’s time that we move forward, and not backward, on health care. Thanks for listening.
11.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following Gary Locke’s announcement that he will step down as ambassador to China in 2014. “Gary has served our state and nation with resolve for three decades,” Larsen said. “As ambassador, commerce secretary and governor, Gary opened new markets for Washington businesses and helped our economy grow. “His historic appointment as the first Chinese-American to be our ambassador to China led to closer ties and more frank dialogue across the Pacific. I am proud of Gary’s steadfast commitment to promote human rights in China and advance American interests in the Asia-Pacific region. “I thank Gary for his work and look forward to welcoming him back home in Washington state.” Larsen is co-chair and founder of the U.S.-China Working Group.
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting against legislation that would allow cancelled health insurance plans to be sold through 2014. “Washington state’s early success in implementing the Affordable Care Act is a model for the rest of the country. More than 77,000 people have already enrolled in quality health care coverage, making Washington the third highest performing state in the country. “I have been heartened to hear from many constituents that they have been able to find cheaper and better coverage through Washington Healthplanfinder. I encourage those people whose plans have been cancelled to take a look at their options in the marketplace. We are fortunate that our health insurance marketplace is offering 46 quality plans, and that most people will be able to get tax subsidies to help pay for these plans. “The bill allowing insurance companies to keep selling cancelled health insurance plans would undermine this progress. If we extend old plans, insurers would again be able to discriminate against people with preexisting conditions. Insurers would be able to force women to pay more than men for the same coverage. Insurers would be able to cap the amount of health care you can get each year. This bill could wreak havoc on the insurance market and increase rates for everyone. This bill is bad policy, pure and simple. “I support Insurance Commissioner Kreidler’s decision to reject these proposals and move forward in implementing the meaningful improvements to the individual insurance market. “I have heard from many constituents who are upset because their insurance plans have been cancelled. The promise to keep insurance, while true for most people, has not held up for all. “Health insurance cancellations are not new. Before the Affordable Care Act, I regularly received letters and phone calls from people upset that health insurers were discontinuing their plans or hiking their rates. These problems are exactly why we passed the Affordable Care Act. Now people will no longer be kicked off their plans when they get sick, and premium increases have to be justified based on actual health care cost increases. “We need to move forward on health care reform and improve the law where necessary.”
11.14.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the International Association of Machinists District 751 voted to reject the contract extension offer from Boeing. “I believe Washington is still the best place to build the 777X, but the hill just got steeper,” Larsen said. “We now need to be prepared for an intense competition with other states and countries that want these jobs. “The commercial aerospace industry is changing rapidly, and Washington needs to change with it to stay competitive. We are no longer in a Boeing and Airbus world. We need to be prepared for new entrants from Canada, Brazil, China and elsewhere that are eager for a portion of the growing aerospace industry. “Gov. Inslee and other state leaders have been determined advocates to bring the 777X to Washington. I remain determined to work with them to show why our state is still the best place in the world to build airplanes.”
11.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today supported a bill to give a 1.5 percent increase in veterans benefits. The cost-of-living increase matches the projected 2014 increase in Social Security payments. “We can honor our veterans year-round, not just on Veterans Day, by making sure they receive the benefits they have earned,” Larsen said. “Many veterans in Northwest Washington depend on their monthly benefit checks to make ends meet. This cost-of-living increase will help vets keep up with rising costs for food and housing.” The Senate passed the bill last month, and the House approved it today by unanimous consent. It now goes to the White House for the President to sign it into law. Larsen has put forward several initiatives to help veterans. Earlier this year, Larsen successfully attached language to a VA funding bill that directs the VA to update the Veterans Affairs Schedule for Rating Disabilities according to up-to-date, medically accurate standards. The change was driven by a Clinton, Washington, resident who wrote to Larsen asking for assistance when the disability rating she received for her fibromyalgia was not consistent with standard medical assessments. Working with Sen. Patty Murray, Larsen introduced a bill last year to improve health care for female veterans and provide advanced fertilization treatment for veterans with service-connected disabilities who are trying to start families. The VA enacted a portion of that bill earlier this year, and Larsen has secured 51 additional cosponsors for the measure in the House. Larsen also introduced the bipartisan Veterans Education Transparency (VET) Act, which would allow colleges to access information about veterans’ educational benefits so they can provide better counseling to veterans. Larsen’s staff in Everett and Bellingham work one-on-one to assist veterans with their benefits claims, having completed more than 60 cases in the last year. His office also established a veterans skills-to-jobs initiative that works with veterans, local colleges and employers to translate veterans’ military experience to skills demanded by the private sector.
11.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after Gov. Jay Inslee signed legislation that invests in workforce development and extends airplane manufacturing tax incentives. Inslee sought the measures as part of the effort to secure the Boeing 777X production in Washington state. “Washington is the aerospace capital of the world, and we need to work together to keep it that way,” Larsen said. “Gov. Inslee and the state legislature deserve credit for working together so quickly to pass this package that will build on our state’s competitive advantage for aerospace work in the decades to come. “The women and men who make airplanes in Washington are the best trained aerospace workers around. The education and training package will help ensure that the next generation of workers will be able to meet the demand for advanced aerospace manufacturing in the years ahead. “In the 21st century, the commercial airplane business won’t be just Boeing and Airbus. We need to prepare to compete with companies around the world. With our 100 years in aviation manufacturing, we have a head start on the competition. Keeping that lead may mean further changes to remain competitive and innovative.”
11.08.2013	Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Warns the Energy Department that Decisions Affecting Northwest Energy Supplies Must be Made in the Northwest WASHINGTON–Every lawmaker representing Oregon, Washington and Idaho urged the U.S. Energy Department to maintain an independent Bonneville Power Administration that puts Northwest power users first, in a bipartisan letter to Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz sent today. Led by Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Ron Wyden, D-Ore., and House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings, R-Wash., the 23 members emphasized the importance of correcting discrimination against hiring veterans that occurred at BPA. But that discrimination cannot become an excuse for DOE to take control over Northwest energy policy, they said. “BPA decisions must be made in the Northwest for the benefit of the Northwest. While DOE deserves credit for uncovering BPA’s violation of veterans’ preference and other federal hiring rules, on many BPA matters DOE simply has neither the expertise nor the resources to effectively manage the day-to-day operations,” the members wrote. The delegation asked Moniz to publically state that the recent decision by DOE to impose new oversight of Bonneville’s legal and hiring decisions will not become a Trojan horse to dictate policy decisions from Washington, D.C. “We respectfully request that you and Deputy Secretary Poneman clarify that it is not your intent to extend DOE headquarters day- to-day oversight of BPA beyond that necessary to remedy the acknowledged failures of the BPA personnel system,” they wrote. The members formally asked the Energy Department to provide monthly reports to the Northwest Congressional delegation about its oversight of BPA, as long as the increased DOE oversight is in place. They also asked DOE to provide an end date for the oversight process. The members asked Moniz to explain how it will address veteran hiring discrimination cases, as well as how long it will take to resolve the illegal hiring practices. The Bonneville Power Administration is a crucial engine of the Northwest economy. It controls 65 percent of the region’s power generating capacity in the region (an average of 10.7 gigawatts), and half of the baseload power. It controls about 15,000 miles of high-voltage transmission lines, which is nearly 80 percent of the regional total. It generates clean, renewable power, in the Northwest, for the Northwest, creating a strategic advantage for the region. A copy of the letter is available here. The full list of signatories is below: U.S. Senate: Sen. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Sen. Mike Crapo, R-Idaho, Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., Sen. Jim Risch, R-Idaho, Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore. U.S. House: Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., Rep. Suzanne Bonamici, D-Ore., Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore., Rep. Suzan DelBene, D-Wash., Rep. Doc Hastings, R-Wash., Rep. Denny Heck, D-Wash., Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler, R-Wash., Rep. Derek Kilmer, D-Wash., Rep. Raul Labrador, R-Idaho, Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., Rep. Jim McDermott, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., Rep. Dave Reichert, R-Wash., Rep. Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, Rep. Kurt Schrader, D-Ore., Rep. Adam Smith, D-Wash., Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore. Downloads » Delegation BPA Letter
11.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the negotiations between Boeing, the International Association of Machinists and Washington state to bring production of the 777X and the 777X wing to Washington. “The proposal to bring the 777X to Washington is a recognition that our aerospace workers are the best in the world,” Larsen said. “This deal has the potential to lock in decades of new aerospace work, bringing thousands of good jobs to Everett and securing our state’s place as the aerospace capital of the world. “I commend the Machinists and Boeing for working together on this proposal. These talks are always difficult, and over the next few days, union members will have a significant conversation on the way forward. “I hope the legislature comes to a cooperative agreement to invest in transportation and education. Investing in our roads, bridges and highways is the right thing to do not only to secure the 777X, but to build the foundation for long-term economic growth across the state. And we need to continue to invest in education so Washington state continues to have the best trained aerospace workforce of the world. “Successful transportation investment in Snohomish County needs to be well-rounded, and include transit investments as well as road improvements. I look forward to working with the state and county to make the smart choices that will fuel growth.” The Second Congressional District, which Larsen represents, is home to more than 20,000 Boeing employees and the company’s Everett factory where the current 777 is manufactured. Larsen is the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee. At the request of Gov. Jay Inslee, Larsen led Washington’s delegation to the International Paris Air Show in July.
11.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the finalization of new pilot training rules by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Larsen, the ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, called for the finalized rules in a letter to Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in July. “When passengers board planes in the United States, they should have full confidence that the pilots in the cockpit have been trained to the highest standards,” Larsen said. “The crash of Colgan Air flight 3407 exposed gaps in pilot training requirements that these rules will close. I appreciate the FAA’s continued focus on keeping the flying public safe. “The families of the victims of Colgan 3407 have been determined advocates for getting these rules done. I applaud their tireless work to make sure that other families don’t face the same tragedy that they did in 2009.” The new rules are one of the final new safety requirements that Congress ordered in the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010, which followed the fatal crash of Colgan Air flight 3407 in 2009. The FAA still needs to complete development of a pilot records database that will enhance the screening of newly hired pilots. Larsen and Rep. Frank LoBiondo called attention to the lack of progress on the database in a letter to the Department of Transportation’s inspector general in September. Downloads » Larsen-LoBiondo Pilot Records Database Letter
11.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the Retail Investor Protection Act. Larsen joined the bipartisan majority of the House of Representatives to pass the bill that requires the Department of Labor’s investor protections to align with the same protections at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). “I voted for the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to make sure that people’s retirement savings are not again used as gambling money by big banks. Financial advisers owe their clients clear, unbiased advice. These advisers should be regulated under a clear set of guidelines. “We are now getting conflicting guidelines from the Department of Labor and the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those guidelines increase confusion and costs for investors. The Retail Investor Protection Act fixes this problem by making sure that regulator guidelines for financial advisers are consistent, keeping costs lower for people investing for their retirement.”
11.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the Swaps Regulatory Improvement Act. Larsen voted for the bill that addresses concerns that a section of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 will move financial swaps outside of the United States or away from banks to less-regulated entities. The bill passed on a bipartisan basis. “Big banks put big profits and big bonuses ahead of financial security for Main Street when they created the risky financial products that caused the financial crisis. That’s why I worked with my colleagues to pass the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act in 2010. This law imposes strict new oversight of financial firms and the financial markets and created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect families and small businesses from financial abuse. “One of the problems we face now is that banks may move commodity, energy and other financial swaps out of banks into unregulated entities. One of the goals of Dodd-Frank was to regulate these large trades in a transparent way. The Swaps Regulatory Improvement Act fixes this problem by moving swaps back into regulated financial institutions.”
10.31.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced it will allow airlines to extend passenger use of electronic devices on planes. Passengers will be able to use devices through the flight experience from gate-to-gate if airlines can show their use will not interfere with safety. “There’s nothing more important in flight than the safety of passengers and crew,” Larsen said. “I appreciate the FAA’s unwavering commitment to putting safety first when evaluating this proposal. As fliers take advantage of this new policy, they need to still pay full attention to safety videos and listen to crewmember instructions at all times. I fully expect the FAA will continue to put safety first as they assess individual airline personal electronics policies.”
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cosponsored a bipartisan measure to increase the accountability and transparency of government surveillance programs. The USA FREEDOM Act would end dragnet collection of Americans’ phone records and ensure that privacy rights and civil liberties concerns bear on surveillance programs. The bill also includes a proposal that Larsen first put forward earlier this year in the Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 that allows technology and telecommunications firms to tell their customers when the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court requires the handover of user data. “Every day we learn a little more about how the U.S. government overstepped its bounds by collecting vast amounts of data on American citizens outside of targeted anti-terrorism investigations,” Larsen said. “The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which is supposed to block this behavior, has clearly fallen down on the job. Congress needs to step in to ensure these programs are limited, transparent and accountable. “The USA FREEDOM Act puts into place reforms that I have called for, limiting the use of the programs, giving proper consideration to privacy and civil liberties, and giving the public much more knowledge about what information their government is collecting and why. “Enhanced surveillance tools are appropriate when they are used in targeted and limited investigations of foreign nationals to protect Americans. The U.S. government has clearly gone too far and it’s time to rein it in.” In August, Larsen laid out a set of reforms that he thought should be implemented. Those measures, which were incorporated into the USA FREEDOM Act, include: Allowing technology and telecommunications firms to disclose when they are required to turn over user data to the government; Publicly disclosing Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court opinions that contain significant interpretations or construction of statues and authorities; and Allowing a public advocate in the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to argue for privacy and civil liberties protections. The bill was authored by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., and Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wisc. An outline of the legislation and a list of endorsers are available here. The text of the bill is available here.
10.30.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today at the subcommittee’s “Review of FAA’s Certification Process: Ensuring an Efficient, Effective, and Safe Process” hearing. The remarks are as prepared for delivery. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing to review FAA’s certification process. Mr. Chairman, the ability of U.S. manufacturers to improve our aviation system, and compete successfully in the global marketplace, is tied to the FAA’s timely review of new products. The public relies on a skilled and dedicated FAA workforce to work with industry and ensure that new products and services are safe. I have seen first-hand how important FAA’s certification services are in Washington state, where aviation manufacturing is a significant economic driver. Washington is home to 1,250 firms in the aerospace cluster, employing more than 131,000. The aerospace industry is the largest exporting sector by dollar value in Washington accounting for $27 billion of the state’s total $64.6 billion in exports in 2011. To ensure that aviation manufacturing continues to play such a critical role in the nation’s economy, Congress must provide adequate resources for FAA certification services. Additionally, Congress should encourage FAA to improve the streamlining process, while maintaining the highest level of safety. Therefore, I am pleased that the most recent FAA reauthorization directed the FAA to assess its certification process and address concerns related to the consistency of regulatory interpretation. More specifically, section 312 of the FAA reauthorization requires that FAA conduct an assessment of the aircraft certification and approval process. In the summer of 2012, the FAA reported the results of its review, and in July of this year it approved a plan to implement recommendations contained in the report. One of the key recommendations contained in the FAA certification report is that the agency should more effectively use its existing delegation authority. The FAA’s delegation authority is nothing new – it has been a key component for decades. Because FAA simply does not have the personnel to oversee every aspect of aviation certification, the law allows FAA to delegate certain functions to qualified individuals and companies. Today, the FAA appoints both individual designees and grants approval of Organizational Designation Authorization, or ODAs. Through ODAs, FAA delegates the responsibility for selecting individuals to perform routine certification work to aircraft manufacturers and other organizations. The FAA’s section 312 report notes that if FAA more fully utilizes delegated authority to carry out routine certification functions, FAA personnel will be freed up to focus on critical safety areas that present more risk. In theory, this makes perfect sense, and I support the idea of streamlining the certification process as long as it can be done safely. But safety must never be allowed to take a back seat to efficiency. In 2005, the GAO reported that upwards of 90 percent of FAA’s certification activities were performed by designees. Therefore, FAA personnel must have the tools and the training to properly assess risk, so that they are involved when needed to be and are prepared to step up their involvement in certification activity when warranted. And when certain certification activities present greater risk or involve new technologies, the FAA must possess the technical expertise, or readily obtain outside expertise, so it can work with industry to address safety issues. In 2011, the DOT Inspector General reported that FAA needed to strengthen its risk assessment analysis capability with respect to ODA so that FAA personnel could better identify safety critical certification issues. I look forward to hearing from the IG what steps, if any, the FAA has taken to strengthen its risk based targeting program since the IG’s 2011 report. Likewise, earlier this year the Government Accountability Office raised concerns that “FAA staff have not been able to keep pace with industry changes and, thus, may struggle to understand the aircraft or equipment they are tasked with certificating.” I would like to hear from Dr. Dillingham whether he believes this is a major concern, and what steps the FAA can take, or is taking, to address this concern. Mr. Chairman, in 2010 the GAO reported that the FAA’s inconsistent interpretation of its own certification and approval regulations has resulted in delays and higher costs for industry. This could also lead to jurisdiction shopping or unfair standards for different manufacturers or operators depending on where they are located. For this reason, section 313 of the FAA reauthorization directed the FAA to convene an advisory panel to determine the root causes of inconsistent regulatory interpretation by FAA personnel. This July, the advisory panel issued its report to Congress, but the FAA has not yet drafted a plan to implement the panel’s recommendations. Many of the panel’s recommendations make sense, centering on improving training for FAA personnel and improving communication between FAA and industry. For example, the panel recommended that the FAA develop a consolidated master database for regulatory policy and guidance for commercial aviation. I look forward to hearing the FAA’s reaction to this and other panel recommendations. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.
10.28.2013	Larsen Also Pushing Measures to Improve Veterans Health Care, Education WASHINGTON—With more than 700,000 veteran disability claims pending, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for several bills to cut the backlog and get veterans the benefits they earned. “Tens of thousands of veterans across Northwest Washington served our nation honorably. Too many now bear the wounds of war,” Larsen said. “We owe these veterans the benefits they have earned, but too many of their claims are sitting in a backlog for months or even years. “When I traveled across Northwest Washington to meet with veterans this summer, I heard from many of them that cutting the claims backlog needs to be a top priority. Over the last year, the VA has done a commendable job by cutting the backlog by a third. We need to build on that progress, and these bills will do that.” The bills passed by House of Representatives tonight include provisions that will: establish a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) commission to propose recommendations to the disability claims process; pay veterans more quickly by paying them as their individual conditions are adjudicated; provide veterans with information that could speed their claims; strengthen accountability by requiring the VA to regularly provide to the public information on claims process and performance; take steps to ensure that the VA has the information it needs from other agencies to accurately process claims quickly; encourage the VA to expand the use of automation when processing claims; speed up claims by allowing veterans’ medical exams to be performed by doctors outside the VA system; cut the processing time for veterans appealing their disability rating decision by streamlining paperwork; and extend an advisory committee on improving education and job training programs for veterans. In addition to his support for these measures, Larsen has put forward several other initiatives to help veterans. Earlier this year, Larsen successfully attached language to a VA funding bill that directs the VA to update the Veterans Affairs Schedule for Rating Disabilities according to up-to-date, medically accurate standards. The change was driven by a Clinton, Wash. resident who wrote to Larsen asking for assistance when the disability rating she received for her fibromyalgia was not consistent with standard medical assessments. Working with Sen. Patty Murray, Larsen introduced a bill last year to improve health care for female veterans and provide advanced fertilization treatment for veterans with service-connected disabilities who are trying to start families. The VA enacted a portion of that bill earlier this year, and Larsen has secured 51 additional cosponsors for the measure in the House. Larsen also introduced the bipartisan Veterans Education Transparency (VET) Act, which would allow colleges to access information about veterans’ educational benefits so they can provide better counseling to veterans. Larsen’s staff in Everett and Bellingham work one-on-one to assist veterans with their benefits claims, having completed more than 60 cases in the last year. His office also established a veterans skills-to-jobs initiative that works with veterans, local colleges and employers to translate veterans’ military experience to skills demanded by the private sector.
10.24.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the award of $2.4 million to restore habitat for Chinook salmon and steelhead trout in the Whidbey and Snohomish basins. The funding, awarded by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, is part of a long-term effort to rebuild fisheries in the region. “A healthy fish population means a healthy economy in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “This funding will go a long way toward restoring vital fish populations in the Puget Sound.” The Nature Conservancy will receive $1.4 million to help restore 500 acres of degraded floodplain habitat in the Whidbey Basin. Snohomish County will receive $1 million to help restore nearly 330 acres of wetlands in the Snohomish River estuary. More information on the funding is available here: https://www.habitat.noaa.gov/restoration/programs/crp/ffo2013.html.
10.23.2013	WASHINGTON—The House of Representatives today passed a job-creating water infrastructure bill with the support of Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Water Resources Reform and Development Act authorizes federal investment in ports, flood control and ecosystem restoration. Northwest Washington has several ongoing federally funded water infrastructure projects. “We can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure,” Larsen said. “In some parts of Northwest Washington, safe and strong water infrastructure is every bit as important as roads and bridges. “Whether it’s flood control in the Skagit Valley or maintaining ports in Everett and Bellingham, we need to make sure that our infrastructure is a solid foundation for our economy. “This bill will create jobs and make it easier for communities throughout Northwest Washington to move forward on infrastructure projects that will grow the economy in the long-run. “While this bill delivers for Northwest Washington, there’s more than we can do. Northwest ports pay more in fees than they get back for investment. While this bill gives our ports some additional money to spend on infrastructure, I will continue working to find ways to get our ports a better deal.” Larsen is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has jurisdiction over the bill. The Water Resources Reform and Development Act governs funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for water navigation projects (including ports and shipping channels), flood control projects and ecosystem restoration projects. Several projects in Northwest Washington use Army Corps funding, including: The Skagit River General Investigation Study Swinomish Channel dredging Port of Everett dredging The Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project The bill authorizes increased investment in water infrastructure which is funded by the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Congress currently spends only about half of the money that comes into the trust fund each year. The bill authorizes spending 80 percent of the fund’s intake by 2020. Ports in the Northwest Washington pay more into the trust fund than they are eligible to receive because most of the funding is reserved for dredging, which the naturally deep-water Pacific Northwest ports do not need as much as other ports. This bill begins to allow funding to be spent on enhanced infrastructure projects. Larsen is working to further benefit Northwest ports by allowing funds for other uses, including on-shore infrastructure improvements. The bill also sets aside 10 percent of funding for small parts, like Everett, Skagit and Bellingham. Small ports are drivers of local economies Another reform in the bill will allow local agencies to pay for expedited permitting from the Army Corps of Engineers. The provision, sought by the Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, will allow communities to move faster on projects that will provide significant economic benefit. The Army Corps has a backlog of permit applications, stalling some projects. Larsen successfully secured language in the bill that will provide more federal funding for ecosystem restoration in the Puget Sound. The provision allows the Army Corps of Engineers to pay 65 percent of the costs of bridge replacements and removals in ecosystem restorations. More on that provision is available here. The bill includes compromise language relating to vegetation growing on levees. The language strikes a balance between protecting the levees’ flood control ability with the valuable habitat the vegetation provides for fish and other wildlife. This is particularly important in Northwest Washington where flood control projects often overlap with vital salmon rearing habitat. The Senate passed its own version of the bill earlier this year. House and Senate negotiators will next combine the bills into a final version for Congressional approval.
10.23.2013	Provision Would Triple Impact of State Dollars Spent on Bridges in Ecosystem Repair Projects WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, secured critical legislative language to aid Puget Sound restoration efforts in a bill expected to pass the House of Representatives today. The language allows the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to spend more on ecosystem restoration efforts throughout the Puget Sound. “Puget Sound wetlands are more than just homes to fish and birds,” Larsen said. “They’re the foundation of a huge part of our economy. We need to preserve them for future generations. My provision will triple the impact of the dollars that Washington state spends on bridge repairs that improve the ecosystem.” The Puget Sound Nearshore Ecosystem Restoration Project has identified nine bridges in need of replacement or removal as part of their work to restore ecosystems throughout the region. The Army Corps of Engineers has indicated they will require the state to bear the full costs of those repairs, following a standard that is only supposed to apply to flood control projects. Larsen’s language, included in the committee report for the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013, asks the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to determine whether these bridge removals or alterations are integral parts of the ecosystem repair. If so, Congress directs the Army Corps to issue new guidance that would bring the state’s cost-share down from 100 percent to 35 percent. “Poorly placed bridges are a major impediment to our state’s efforts to restore the nearshore environment of Puget Sound,” said Lisa Veneroso, assistant director of the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife’s habitat program. “Often the cost of restoration projects that include bridge work is beyond what the state can afford on its own. We greatly appreciate Rep. Larsen’s efforts to clarify the Corps’ financial responsibility and move our state’s restoration effort forward.” Larsen is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which has jurisdiction over the bill. The text of Larsen’s report language follows: When identifying the costs of construction for navigation projects, the Corps of Engineers, pursuant to the Act of June 21, 1940 (more commonly known as the Truman-Hobbs Act) considers the cost of highway and railroad bridge alterations or removals as construction costs, eligible for cost share. However, for flood control projects and ecosystem restoration projects, local sponsors are currently required to pay the entire cost of a bridge alteration or removal as a non-federal responsibility to provide all lands, easements, rights-of-way, disposal areas, and relocations, pursuant to section 103(a) of the Water Resources Development Act of 1986, as amended. While that specific section is notably applicable to only flood control projects, the Corps has applied this responsibility broadly to other project purposes, such as ecosystem restoration purposes, as well. Bridge alterations and removals can be essential components of ecosystem restoration projects, such as related to large-scale ecosystem restoration projects in the Pacific Northwest. As such, the Committee encourages the Secretary to explore whether such alterations and removals should, like navigation projects, be considered as part of the costs of construction of an ecosystem restoration project, and to report to the Committee on its findings. If the Secretary determines that such alterations and removals are integral to meeting the goals of ecosystem restoration projects, the Secretary shall develop new guidance for ecosystem restoration projects that fits their unique needs.
10.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the passing of former Speaker of the House Tom Foley. “Speaker Foley’s lifetime of work for Eastern Washington set the standard for what public service means in our state. He was schooled in the ways of constituent service by Senators Magnuson and Jackson, and passed on its importance to a new generation of our state’s elected officials. “I first met Speaker Foley when I was a Snohomish County councilmember on a trip to Japan. It didn’t feel as much like talking to a U.S. ambassador as it felt like chatting with just a guy named Tom Foley. I last saw him at the Democratic National Convention in 2012, where he had come, even in weakening health, to support his state’s delegation. “Washington state is stronger for Speaker Foley’s service. My sympathies go out to Heather and the whole Foley family of staff.”
10.17.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. –Northwest lawmakers are urging federal officials to quickly allow Bering Sea fishermen to start fishing for Alaskan king crab. The crab season was scheduled to start on October 15th, but due to the government shutdown, the federal employees at the National Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) have been unable to issue permits for the fleet, thereby delaying the start of the season. In a letter sent today to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker, which oversees the NMFS, Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Rep. Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10), and Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) wrote: “While we recognize that your agency will be facing a significant backlog of work as a result of the government shutdown, we respectfully urge you to make this a top priority, and expedite the issuance of the IFQ and the IPQ so the fishing season can begin as soon as possible.” The retail value of the Alaska king crab season is worth more than $400 million annually, representing a major source of economic activity for the Northwest’s seafood industry. The delay in the start of the 2013 season threatens the industry’s ability to export to the lucrative Asian holiday market. “Missing the Asian market when it is in peak demand could result in a price decrease by as much as 20-30%, which means millions of dollars in lost value,” continued the delegation. “This would be a crippling loss for the industry and to the thousands of men and women whose livelihood depends on the king crab season.” In addition to the disruption to the overall market for the seafood industry, the delay of the fishing season has affected fishing boats that are incurring costs daily as they sit tied up to Dutch Harbor unable to begin their catch. Every day the boats are idled costs each vessel in the fishing fleet about $1,000 for food, fuel, insurance and maintenance. On October 11, 2013, Keith Colburn, captain of the Alaska crab-fishing vessel Wizard, testified before the Senate Commerce Committee and explained that, "We have been racking up bills getting ready to go fishing. If we're tied to the docks waiting for the government, we can't pay those bills. I'm a small businessman in a big ocean with big bills. I need to go fishing.” The full text of the letter can be found below. The Honorable Penny Pritzker Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Ave., N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230 Dear Secretary Pritzker, As the federal government resumes normal operations, we write to bring your attention to an urgent request regarding the Bering Sea/Aleutian Islands crab fishery. The crab season, which was scheduled to begin on October 15th, has been delayed because the National Marine Fisheries Service employees who issue the Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) and the Individual Processing Quota (IPQ) have been furloughed during the shutdown. While we recognize that your agency will be facing a significant backlog of work as a result of the government shutdown, we respectfully urge you to make this a top priority, and expedite the issuance of the IFQ and the IPQ so the fishing season can begin as soon as possible. As you know, this fishery is worth hundreds of millions of dollars to fishermen in the Pacific Northwest, many of whom depend on the red king crab season to support their businesses and families. However, more than 80 boats remain docked in Dutch Harbor and cannot begin fishing legally without the issuance of the necessary quotas. The delay in the fishing season could potentially prevent the industry from exporting to the vital Asian holiday market when demand is at its highest and most lucrative. While the fishermen have until January 15th to catch their shares, any delay to their season means the crabs may not reach the Asian market in time, as the catch needs to be frozen, packaged, and exported by mid-November at the very latest. Missing the Asian market when it is in peak demand could result in a price decrease by as much as 20-30%, which means millions of dollars in lost value. This would be a crippling loss for the industry and to the thousands of men and women whose livelihood depends on the king crab season. In addition to the effects on the market, fishing boats are incurring costs of roughly $1,000 per day while sitting tied to the docks as a result of moorage fees, fuel, and food expenses to feed the crew. Processors face empty facilities and an idle labor force that still has to be housed and fed while not bringing in any revenue. Again, we respectfully urge you to expedite, by any means possible, the issuance of the necessary quotas so that the Bering Sea/Aleutian Islands crab fishing season can begin with as little a delay as possible. Thank you for your time and for your careful consideration of this request.
10.16.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today on the Senate agreement to reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling. “I support the agreement to reopen the government and protect the full faith and credit of the United States,” Larsen said. “We need to move past this manufactured crisis so we can get to work on the important issues that Congress still needs to address. “I have directed my office to work with federal agencies as soon as they reopen to quickly restore services to people and businesses in Northwest Washington. A lot of people have been hurt by the shutdown, and I am committed to alleviating as much of that damage as possible. “Over the next few months, I will be focused on contributing to a long-term budget that cuts our deficit and makes job-creating investments in transportation and education. Congress also needs to return to its work on reforming our broken immigration system. I cosponsored comprehensive immigration reform because it will improve the economy in Northwest Washington and make our community stronger. “We have too many real issues to address for Congress to waste time staggering between manufactured crises. I’m ready to get back to work on creating jobs and making our country stronger.”
10.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today signed an official House of Representatives petition to force a vote on a bill to reopen the government immediately. If a majority of representatives sign the petition (known as a discharge petition), the House of Representatives would have the opportunity to take an up-or-down vote on a bill to extend government funding. “The American people deserve to have their entire government open and serving them,” Larsen said. “Republicans shut down the government in a failed effort to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. It’s time for Republican leaders to drop their obstruction and let the House vote to end this manufactured crisis. “Congress must pass a budget and negotiate an agreement for how we should handle our long-term debt challenge. I continue to support a bold and balanced plan to cut the deficit while making strategic investments in our infrastructure, education and economy that will create jobs and help us grow in the long run.” The discharge petition for H. Res. 372 would allow an up or down vote on a clean continuing resolution, providing funding through November 15 at a compromise level requested by Speaker Boehner. This discharge petition only needs a majority of House members to sign on. For more information on the discharge petition, click here.
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON—Congress should “open the entire government for all Americans” and end efforts to restore government services on a piecemeal basis, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, told his colleagues today. “We should not be opening just parts of the government to serve just some of the people,” Larsen said. “We should open the entire government for all Americans. The Republican solution to the Republican shutdown, this piecemeal approach picking winners and picking losers, is no solution at all.” Larsen, the highest-ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, delivered a floor speech on a bill that would restore funding to the Federal Aviation Administration. The bill is part of a piecemeal strategy advanced by House Republicans to open parts of the government while leaving the rest shut down. The Senate has passed a budget bill that would reopen the government immediately and a majority of members of the House of Representatives have said they would vote for the measure. But House leadership has not allowed a vote. Larsen’s floor speech follows: Mr. Speaker, as the Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee, I know how important it is to end the shutdown of the FAA. But I do have to ask the question: if safety is so important, why wasn’t this the first bill brought to the floor in this piecemeal approach that the Republican side has taken? Now look, a safe and efficient aviation system isn’t good just for travelers. It’s the lifeblood of the economy where I come from. In our state, 131,000 people across over 1,200 companies work in the aerospace industry. But those folks don’t depend just on the FAA. Is it safety to say that police departments who need federal grants to cops on the beat should have to wait? Is it safety to say that our functioning transit systems have to wait for grants to make the transit systems more safe? Is it safety to say that the EPA can’t issue grants in my district or around the country to make sure we have safe and clean drinking water? This bill funds none of these priorities. We should not be opening just parts of the government to serve just some of the people. We should open the entire government for all Americans. The Republican solution to the Republican shutdown, this piecemeal approach picking winners and picking losers, is no solution at all. It’s great that this House wants to make sure air travel is safe, but why should we stop there? What about safety on our highways? In the last 10 days, there have been three major fatal transportation accidents across this country. A plane crashed in Santa Monica, California, killing four. A bus crashed in Tennessee, killing eight and injuring another fourteen. And less than a mile from this building, one person died and two others were injured during a Metro repair accident this weekend. But the National Transportation Safety Board can’t investigate, because this Congress sent the investigators home on furlough. Let’s end this piecemeal approach and move on to a vote on the Senate bill that opens all of the government for all Americans. If it’s about safety, let’s do it that way. This continued unwillingness to allow one vote—just one vote—to open the government for all Americans and not just some, this unwillingness needs to stop. One bill, one vote, for all Americans. With that, I yield back.
10.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Washington state’s six House Democrats have joined 194 of their colleagues to call on House Speaker John Boehner to end the Republican-led shutdown by allowing an up-or-down vote on a clean budget bill that would open the government immediately. Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Jim McDermott, WA-07, Adam Smith, WA-09, Denny Heck, WA-10, and Derek Kilmer, WA-06, signed a letter to Speaker Boehner, which calls on him to allow a vote on Senate-passed legislation that would fund the government at the Republican-sought spending level. In addition to Democratic support, enough House Republicans have indicated they would support a clean budget bill, known as a continuing resolution, to reopen the government immediately. “The solution to this crisis is a simple piece of legislation that funds the government at levels that have already passed both chambers of Congress,” the members wrote. “We demand a vote on a clean continuing resolution immediately so that government functioning can resume and Americans can move on with their lives.” The full text of the letter is available here. Since the shutdown began, House Democrats have tried seven times to bring up a vote on the Senate-passed budget bill, which would end the shutdown immediately. But House Republicans have blocked votes on the measure each time.
10.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement on day five of the federal government shutdown. The House of Representatives today voted to provide retroactive pay to furloughed federal employees after the shutdown ends. “We’re in day five of a reckless government shutdown that the House of Representatives has the power to end with a single vote,” Larsen said. “The Senate has voted three times to fund the government. House Republican leadership has refused to let us vote on a clean bill to reopen the government, even though a majority of the House has said they would vote for it. “Congress told 800,000 federal employees that they could not come to work because Republicans would not drop their ideological attacks on the Affordable Care Act. Federal workers do not deserve to be punished further because of House Republican intransigence. I’m pleased the House voted today to extend retroactive pay to these public servants. “Federal employees deserve their back pay, but they also deserve to be allowed to report to work on Monday. People in Northwest Washington deserve their full government back open and serving them. “The House would end this shutdown in an hour if Republican leadership would let us vote on a clean budget bill.”
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Foss Maritime announced it will move its operations to Everett: “Foss Maritime’s move to Everett starts another great chapter in the city’s proud manufacturing history,” Larsen said. “I look forward to welcoming the 250 workers and hopefully many more as Foss has new opportunities to expand its operations. “I congratulate Mayor Stephanson and his team for their unrelenting efforts to bring good jobs to Everett.”
10.02.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after joining other House Democrats to introduce a comprehensive immigration reform package in the House. “Even during the Republican shutdown, we can’t stop working to improve our economy. We need to end this shutdown so Congress can take up comprehensive immigration reform and other bills that will create jobs and make our nation stronger. “We are a nation of immigrants. Whether we come from places like Norway, like my ancestors did, or from places like Mexico, Korea or the Philippines, we are all looking for the same thing: a good education, opportunity and work. “Our immigration system is broken, and my conversations with people across Northwest Washington have taught me that we need a comprehensive solution. I’m focused on breaking down the barriers that stop people from fully participating in the economy and our democracy. Immigration reform will help us do that. “Over the last year, I have met with young undocumented immigrants who made impassioned cases for the DREAM Act. I’ve met with farmers and high-tech companies and their workers who have shown me the need for visa reform. And I’ve met with members of cultural communities throughout Northwest Washington, who have told me why they and their families came to America. At the core, their message to me has been the same: we need reform that expands opportunity and grows the economy. “The complex problems of the immigration system impact nearly every person in our country and every part of our economy. When families face the pain of separation, each person’s contributions are held back. When businesses can’t find employees with the right type of skills, profits are lost. And when workers can’t find good-paying jobs, our economy can’t reach its full potential. “The Senate passed a bipartisan and comprehensive reform this year. House Republican leaders have so far failed to bring forward legislation for debate. Democrats are ready to move, because we know the time to reform our immigration system is now.” Larsen is an original cosponsor of the legislation introduced today which is based on the bill the Senate passed earlier this year. More information on the bill is available here. Larsen is a vice-chair of the New Democrat Coalition which introduced the bill with Democratic leadership. Downloads » Border Security, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Modernization Act
09.30.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Congress failed to pass legislation to avert a shutdown of the federal government. House Republicans insisted on dismantling or defunding the Affordable Care Act as a condition to continue funding the government. “Republicans played chicken with the government and our economy, and the American people lost,” Larsen said. “When veterans’ phone calls go unanswered, when school children are turned away from national parks, and when scientists working on the flu vaccine are told to go home, Americans will at least know who broke their government. “Republican leaders said they didn’t want a shutdown and they didn’t want Obamacare. But on Tuesday morning we’ll wake up to a government that is shut down and Obamacare in full operation. Thousands of Washington residents will be able to enroll in high-quality health care plans they never had access to before. Seniors are saving thousands of dollars on their medications. And being a woman is no longer a pre-existing condition. “Congress needs to do a lot more than just fight over whether to keep the lights on. We need to undo this reckless and unnecessary shutdown and get Congress back to work on improving the economy.”
09.28.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following reports that Republicans will insist on repealing the Affordable Care Act in order to keep the government operating after Sept. 30, a tactic which the New York Times says will “all but [ensure] that much of the government will shut down.” “Over the last three years, Republicans in Congress have shown they are incompetent at governing. So now they have decided to give up trying. We are two days away from a Republican shutdown. Instead of working across the aisle to come to an agreement, House Republicans are locking arms and running full speed ahead to failure.”
09.25.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to approve funding for the Secure Rural Schools program that provides critical support for schools, transportation infrastructure and public safety in Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish counties. The Secure Rural Schools program compensates counties for their lost ability to develop or use federally managed lands. “Secure Rural Schools funding keeps teachers in classrooms and cops on the beat in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “These dollars are fair compensation for Northwest counties that include so many federally managed lands.” In 2012, Whatcom County received $908,504, Skagit County received $639,849 and Snohomish County received $737,202 in Secure Rural Schools funding, according to the U.S. Forest Service. The Secure Rural Schools program, included in H.R. 527 which the House passed tonight, will be extended for one year. For more on the Secure Rural Schools program, click here.
09.23.2013	The United States is engaged in an important national and international debate on how to respond to the Syrian government’s use of chemical weapons to kill large numbers of civilians. Through thousands of phone calls, letters and e-mails from constituents like you, I know that people in Northwest Washington are weary of war and want to avoid another armed conflict. I do too. Under threat of U.S. military action, Russian and Syrian leaders changed course and offered a proposal for Syria to transfer control of its chemical weapons to the international community. This is a significant development, and it only happened because the Russians and Syrians saw that the United States and its international partners are serious about ending the threat of chemical weapons. President Obama needs to take advantage of this diplomatic opening, and Syria needs to back its words with deeds. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad needs to agree to transfer control of his entire chemical weapons stockpile to the international community and he must sign the Chemical Weapons Convention. I offer my full support to President Obama, Secretary of State John Kerry, and U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power as they negotiate an enforceable agreement to destroy Syria’s ability to wage chemical warfare. The agreement being discussed at the United Nations is still fragile and many of the technical details have not been worked out. I have several questions about how the agreement might be implemented. We must determine how to enforce the agreement, particularly during the ongoing civil war. And like all non-proliferation deals that we have signed with Russia since the 1960s, we must place continued emphasis on verification. I have heard from some constituents who are skeptical of the reports on Syria, particularly with the recent memory of how faulty intelligence reports on Iraq helped lead the United States into war there. Let me assure you, the difference between the credibility of intelligence on Iraq and Syria is one of night and day. I have reviewed the classified intelligence reports on Syria. The evidence makes it clear that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime used chemical weapons to kill hundreds of innocent people. Further, the regime still has a large stockpile of chemical weapons and the ability to carry out future attacks. Contrary to what Assad and Russian President Vladimir Putin claim, American, French and British intelligence makes it clear that Assad’s government is responsible for the attack. Since 1997 when the Senate ratified the Chemical Weapons Convention, it has been the unambiguous policy of the United States that the use of chemical weapons is heinous and unacceptable. Unlike conventional weapons, their primary use is to kill mass numbers of civilians. I will continue to support efforts to control and destroy all remaining chemical weapons. The only long-term solution to the war in Syria is a negotiated political settlement between the government and rebel forces. The United States must continue to support efforts to bring all sides to the table to pursue such an agreement.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today that the Tulalip Tribes will receive a $451,113 grant to improve career and technical education programs for tribal members. This grant was awarded by the Department of Education. “Improving education opportunities is one of the best ways to grow our economy and fuel job growth in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Students from the Tulalip Tribes will benefit from the opportunity to get a top-notch education right here at home.” More information on this award is available here.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that Snohomish County will receive nearly $4 million in federal grants to increase affordable housing, improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters, and expand economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income families. These grants are administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. “When people have access to reliable housing and good jobs, we all benefit from greater economic growth,” Larsen said. “These grants will create local construction jobs and help build a brighter economic future in Snohomish County.” The grants are distributed as follows: $2,408,384 Community Development Block Grant to develop urban communities by providing decent housing, a suitable living environment, and expanding economic opportunities for low-income families. $171,623 Emergency Shelter Grant to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. $1,408,398 HOME Grant to fund local housing programs to low and very-low income families. More information on these grants is available here.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting against a Republican bill that would fully defund the Affordable Care Act and keep damaging across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration in place. “This bill sends a dangerous message, telling Americans that unless they agree to bring back discriminatory health insurance, higher drug costs for seniors, and expensive preventive care, Republicans in Congress will shut down the government entirely. “The Affordable Care Act, passed by Congress, signed by the President, and upheld by the Supreme Court, is the law of the land. In two weeks, thousands of Washington residents will be able to sign up for affordable health insurance on Washington Healthplanfinder. Improvements to our health care have taken root, and the progress is going to continue. “Congress must do more than just keep the lights on, but we should at least be able to do that. We have 10 days before the government runs out of money. Maybe now that House Republicans have voted and failed for the 42nd time to repeal, defund and undermine the Affordable Care Act, they can get serious about governing responsibly. “While Republicans waste time, I’m working to improve the economy in the Northwest. I’m focused on investing in our roads, bridges and highways to create jobs and build the platform for future economic growth. We need to invest in our workforce by keeping college affordable and making sure our veterans can use their skills to get good jobs. And we need to double down on our job powerhouses, bringing more aerospace jobs to our state and opening new export opportunities for our companies.” To learn more about Rep. Larsen’s initiatives to improve the economy, click here. Downloads » The Economy in Northwest Washington.pdf
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would cut the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by $40 billion, cutting basic food aid for 4 million Americans. “One of every eight households in Northwest Washington needs food stamps to put food on the dinner table. Half of those families include kids and a quarter include seniors. Nearly 20 percent of veterans need food stamps. “The bill I voted against would take food from the table of 4 million Americans who are already struggling to make it in the wake of the recession. There are better ways to cut the deficit than by taking food from families struggling with poverty and unemployment.” For more data on SNAP beneficiaries in Northwest Washington, click here.
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON—A Bellingham nurse training program will receive $2.75 million in federal funds to expand nursing education for students across Northwest Washington, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Bellingham Technical College will receive the funds from the U.S. Department of Labor and Department of Education. “My top priority is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “These federal dollars will get Northwest Washington nursing students the best education to get the best jobs. Nurses are in high demand, and this grant will help make sure that our medical care providers will be able to find the best talent right in their own backyards.” Bellingham Technical College will recruit students who have lost their jobs as a result of foreign trade, as well as veterans, and other unemployed or underemployed workers in Whatcom, Skagit, Island, San Juan and Snohomish counties. The grant will help Washington state overcome a projected shortage for nurses. A recent report by the state’s Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board found that by 2017, Washington state will be training only 87 percent of the people needed to work in health care. A Washington State Employment Security Department report identified nursing as having the second highest rate of job vacancies in the state. Find more information on the nursing program at Bellingham Technical College here. Find more information on the grant program here.
09.15.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following the installation of the permanent replacement span on the Skagit River Bridge. “Gov. Inslee's team led a terrific response that involved quick work on the local, state and federal levels. This repair is a sterling example of how government should work, and will serve as a model for communities around the country. “Drivers in Northwest Washington and across the country should be able to drive over bridges without worrying about whether they will fall. The collapse of the Skagit River bridge is a wake-up call for policy makers at all levels to invest in our roads, bridges and highways. We simply can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure.” Since the collapse of the bridge five months ago, Larsen has repeatedly urged his colleagues to invest in transportation infrastructure, and joined his colleagues to introduce the SAFE Bridges Act, which would invest $5.5 billion in the nation’s aging bridges, including $159 million in Washington state. Learn more here.
09.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a major federal grant to aid efforts to remove derelict fishing nets from the Puget Sound. The Northwest Straits Foundation will use the $99,995 National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) award to continue its efforts to remove marine debris from the Sound. “Marine debris in the Puget Sound threatens our environment and our economy,” Larsen said. “These federal dollars will be put to work cleaning up the Puget Sound, whose fisheries are a major driver of our economy, and restoring vital habitat that is home to hundreds of species of mammals, birds and fish.” “NOAA’s support and technical advice have been critical to the success of our program for more than ten years,” said Northwest Straits Foundation Director Robyn du Pre’. “This new funding will help us finish the job of removing derelict fishing nets from shallow high priority areas of Puget Sound.” The funding is made available through the NOAA Marine Debris program. More information on the program is available here: https://marinedebris.noaa.gov. ###
08.30.2013	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the State Department’s announcement that North Korea has retracted its invitation for a U.S. official to visit North Korea. U.S. Special Envoy for North Korean Human Rights Issues Ambassador Robert King had been scheduled to travel to North Korea today to attempt to secure the release of Lynnwood-man Kenneth Bae, who has been held in the country since November. “I am disappointed by North Korea’s decision to reverse course and not allow Ambassador King to enter the country,” Larsen said. “I know this setback will be difficult for the Bae family who had hoped for good news today. I commend the State Department for their efforts and know that Ambassador King and his staff will persist in their efforts to secure Kenneth’s release. “The North Koreans gain nothing from this course reversal. It is time to let Kenneth come home to his family and get the medical attention he needs.” ###
08.27.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the State Department’s announcement that Ambassador Robert King will travel to North Korea to seek the release of Lynnwood man Kenneth Bae, who has been held in the country since November. “I am encouraged by the State Department’s decision to send Ambassador King to North Korea and I thank the administration for its continued efforts to secure Kenneth’s release,” Larsen said. “Kenneth’s family has waited in anguish and uncertainty, but has never wavered in their tireless advocacy on his behalf. I commend the work of Ambassador King and all the State Department staff members who have worked to get to this point. I will continue working with the State Department and Kenneth’s family to ensure his safe return home.” ###
08.27.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced nearly $2 million in total federal grants for Arlington Municipal Airport and Paine Field. The Federal Aviation Administration grants will fund safety and facility upgrades at both airfields. “We can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure,” Larsen said. “Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure create jobs and improve safety for pilots, passengers and nearby communities. As the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am fighting for robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like these.” Arlington Municipal Airport will receive $1.2 million to install a new taxiway lighting system and fund other safety-improvement projects. Paine Field will receive $773, 915 to purchase a new aircraft rescue and fire fighting vehicle. ###
08.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in light of recent revelations that the National Security Agency has violated privacy rules thousands of times. “I fully expect these latest disturbing revelations to kick surveillance reform into overdrive. The jaw-dropping number of violations of law and procedure, whether the underlying actions are well-intended, should result in a growing momentum for reform. These programs need tighter limitations, more transparency and more accountability.” “The continued efforts of the White House, the NSA, and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) to reassure Congress and the public have not been enough. The Constitution's first three articles cover the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. There is no article labeled "Trust Us. There's Nothing To See Here." The separation of powers doctrine written into the Constitution does not mean each branch gets to do what it wants without limits. Those powers are tied together by another key principle: checks and balances.” “I introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 so the American public can finally know what data the United States government is collecting from them. I also support the Ending Secret Law Act, which would open up the FISC’s opinions so Constitutional decisions are no longer locked away from public view.” Larsen’s Government Surveillance Transparency Act would allow companies to publicly disclose the volume and type of information they are ordered to turn over to federal intelligence agencies. More information on the bill is available here. ###
08.12.2013	Congressman Rick Larsen, WA-02, will hold five roundtable discussions with veterans in the coming weeks. All veterans are welcome to come to learn about Rick’s work for veterans in Congress and services for veterans available through his Everett and Bellingham offices. Rick also wants to hear from you about your thoughts and concerns about veterans’ issues. BURLINGTONSaturday, August 24th 11:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. American Legion Post 91 721 East Fairhaven Avenue EVERETTSaturday, August 24th 2:00 – 3:30 p.m. Fleet Reserve Association Branch 170 6802 Beverly Boulevard BELLINGHAMMonday, August 26th 10:00 – 11:30 a.m. American Legion Post 7 1688 West Bakerview Road OAK HARBORMonday, August 26th 2:00 – 3:30 p.m. Oak Harbor VFW Post 7392 3037 North Goldie Road FRIDAY HARBORWednesday, August 28th 3:00 – 4:00 p.m. American Legion Post 163 110 1st Street For questions, please contact Rep. Larsen’s Everett Office at (425) 252-3188.
08.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the federal government will spend more than $900,000 to protect Southern Resident Killer whales in the Puget Sound. Larsen actively supported the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife’s application for the grant, including by sending a letter of support to the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in June. “Southern Resident Killer Whales are an inseparable part of the Puget Sound’s cultural, economic and ecological makeup,” Larsen said. “This grant will put a cop on the beat to protect these endangered whales as they continue their recovery.” The $924,961 federal grant will be combined with more than $300,000 in state funds to enforce NOAA rules to protect the endangered whales issued in 2011. The funding will go in part to hiring an enforcement officer to conduct regular Killer Whale protection patrols and investigate violations. The grant will also support outreach and education efforts and statistical evaluation of the effectiveness of the Southern Resident Killer Whale recovery plan. For more information on the grant, visit: https://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/pr/conservation/states/funded.htm. Downloads » Letter to NOAA Supporting SRKW Grant Application
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called for reform of government surveillance programs. In a letter to Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, the ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Larsen pushed reforms that would limit the programs and increase their transparency and accountability. A copy of the letter is available here. The text of Larsen’s letter follows: August 2, 2013 Ranking Member C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Capitol Visitor Center HVC-304 Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Ranking Member Ruppersberger: Thank you for the opportunity to weigh in on the current issues relating to the National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance programs, and how to move forward in Congress. Since the disclosure of these programs became public over two months ago, the American people and Members of Congress, including myself, are demanding the government be more transparent in how these programs ensure national security and protect Americans’ civil liberties. During debate on the 2014 Defense Appropriations bill, I joined a majority of our colleagues in voting against the Amash amendment that would have taken an all-or-nothing approach in addressing some of the NSA surveillance programs. Although I agree with the desire to curb the inappropriate dragnet usage of these authorities, Congress deserves more than 15 minutes of debate on the role of these programs. When Congress first learned about how the Bush administration was implementing PATRIOT Act Sec. 215 programs in 2006, Americans were shocked that these operations were occurring without adequate oversight from Congress and without a legal check on power by the courts. We subsequently acted to curb the abuses of these programs by adding additional institutional checks, and by adding more oversight by the courts and Congress. Understanding the national security benefit of these programs, Congress’ reform goals centered on three principles: limiting the scope of these programs to target foreign sources of intelligence, increasing the transparency and oversight of these programs, and ensuring accountability of these programs to help curb abuses. Based on recent revelations, it is clear that we need to go further to ensure the application of these three important principles. As Congress continues to debate these programs in the next few weeks and months, I want to bring to your attention to various pieces of legislation that should be considered for inclusion in this year’s Intelligence Authorization Act: H.R. 2736 – the Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 (Rep. Larsen). I introduced this bill to increase the degree of transparency that technology and telecommunications firms have in disclosing user information to the government. Many of these firms currently publish transparency reports detailing the amount and type of government requests they receive for user data. However, as mandated by law, those reports cannot include requests from the FISA court. My bill would allow those companies that receive FISA court orders or directives to regularly report these statistics, ensuring greater privacy and security of their users’ data. H.R. 2475 – the End Secret Law Act of 2013 (Rep. Schiff). This bill requires the FISA court to publically disclose specific opinions that contain significant interpretations or construction of statutes and authorities. This bill also aims to protect the manner in which intelligence is gathered, specifically protecting the sources and methods used to gain information. This bill allows the Attorney General to make public a declassified summary if a FISA court opinion cannot be fully declassified. If even a summary cannot be produced, the Department of Justice (DOJ) is required to report on the number of opinions that will remain classified. H.R. 2761 – Presidential Appointment of FISA Court Judges Act (Rep. Schiff). This bill would require the Presidential appointment and Senate confirmation of FISA court judges. By going through the nominations process, the American people can be informed of how potential FISA court judges interpret the law, and how they would perform their oversight responsibilities. In addition to these pieces of legislation, Congress should also act to greater define Reasonable Articulable Suspicion (RAS) standards. RAS standards are important in establishing the legal burden of proof before FISA courts and we should make sure that this burden of proof is widely understood. Every 30 days, the NSA shares with the FISA court how the standards are being applied. Congress is also regularly briefed on these standards. Where appropriate, these reports should be available to the public as well. Similarly, Congress should address the lax threshold that is currently used to define “foreignness” when determining which data NSA analysts can and cannot pursue. As reported, the NSA has determined that a source is foreign-based on a 51 percent certainty threshold. If this is the case, these standards would be unacceptable and would fail to meet the intent of Congress when we agreed to these programs. Finally, Congress should ensure that the rights of the public are protected and promoted in front of the FISA court. There is currently no counterweight to the government’s arguments before the FISA court. Recognizing that the FISA court does place modest restrictions on the DOJ, the FISA court alone should not be expected as an arbiter to also do the job of public advocate. In fact, based on recent reports, it seems the FISA court has acted as a rubber stamp for the executive branch. By ensuring a public advocate is present at FISA court proceedings, the American people will be better represented and protected from potential abuses. The issues and legislation I mentioned above are not a comprehensive list, and while they do not reflect all the options, they reflect my priorities on how to move forward. Thank you again for allowing me to weigh in on the NSA surveillance programs. I look forward to working with you and our colleagues on the Intelligence Committee in the coming weeks as we seek to strike a better balance between security and liberty. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Downloads » Larsen Letter on NSA Programs
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged his colleagues to take up and pass the SAFE Bridges Act, a bill he introduced with Reps. Nick Rahall, W.Va-03, and Peter DeFazio, Ore.-04. The House of Representatives will recess Friday for five weeks without passing any legislation to invest in our transportation infrastructure. Larsen’s floor speech follows: Mr. Speaker, I rise to support Ranking Member Slaughter’s motion to call up the SAFE Bridges Act. In May, a portion of a bridge on Interstate 5 in my district collapsed into the Skagit River. Like most of my constituents, I have driven over that bridge hundreds of times. The fact that no one died when it collapsed was a blessing. But you know, not everyone has been so lucky. My colleagues will remember in 2007 when a bridge spanning the Mississippi River in Minneapolis crashed down during rush hour, killing 13 people and injuring 145. So today I want to ask my colleagues a simple question: should not Americans be able to drive across a highway bridge with the reasonable expectation that it will not crumble away from underneath them? Sixty-seven thousand bridges in our country are rated structurally deficient. Sixty-seven thousand bridges. When those bridges fall, it isn’t just the unlucky few on those bridges who suffer. Whole economies that rely on safe and efficient transportation suffer. The I-5 bridge across the Skagit River just doesn’t connect Burlington and Mount Vernon. It connects the entire West Coast and carries millions of dollars’ worth of trade between Canada and the U.S. But here’s the good news: We know how to build safe bridges. There are thousands of civil engineers devoting their lives today to building good structures that don’t fall down. But we need to pay for them. We need to maintain them. Maintain them until they are old, and replace them when we need to. We can’t wait for them to crumble into the water below. In light of this obvious need, how much has this Congress has done to improve bridge safety or invest in infrastructure? [Pause] Mr. Speaker that is the sound of how much Congressional action has been taken. Nothing. Just yesterday, House leadership pulled the transportation appropriations bill because they couldn’t find enough Republicans to support its draconian cuts. Instead of rushing home, we should take up the SAFE Bridges Act introduced by Mr. Rahall to immediately invest in bridges. And rather than repealing Obamacare for the 40th time this Congress, we should invest in our infrastructure for the first time. If you think your constituents should be able to drive over a bridge without wondering whether it will crumble beneath them, then this Congress must act on robust transportation funding. With that I ask unanimous consent to include a state-by-state funding table under the SAFE Bridges Act in the record. I yield back.
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Small- and medium-sized cities will get a fair share of federal transportation dollars under a bill introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today. The Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery for Cities Underfunded Because of Size (TIGER CUBS) Act of 2013 would set aside 20 percent of special transportation infrastructure funding specifically for smaller cities. “TIGER grants are a great way to create jobs by investing in our roads, bridges and highways. But smaller cities don’t have the resources to compete for these grants with the New Yorks and San Franciscos of the country,” Larsen said. “The TIGER CUBS Act will make sure that cities like Mountlake Terrace, Mukilteo and Sedro-Woolley have a fair shot at these critical transportation dollars.” Congress established the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant program in 2009 as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. About a quarter of TIGER funding has been set aside for rural communities, with the bulk of the remainder going to large cities and statewide projects. Larsen’s TIGER CUBS Act would reauthorize the TIGER program and set aside 20 percent of the funding for cities with populations between 10,000 and 50,000 people. Larsen’s legislation drew praise from Mountlake Terrace Mayor Jerry Smith, who said the legislation would help cities like Mountlake Terrace meet their economic development goals. “The City of Mountlake Terrace supports updating the current TIGER rules to provide new infrastructure funding tools for small- and medium-sized cities,” Smith said. “We strongly support the TIGER-CUBS bill and applaud Rep. Larsen for his innovative approach to meeting the infrastructure and economic development needs of smaller cities. I urge Congress to pass the Larsen legislation to provide additional federal funding opportunities for small- and medium-sized cities.” The text of the TIGER CUBS Act is available here. To learn more about the TIGER program, visit www.dot.gov/tiger. The following cities in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties would be eligible for the CUBS set-aside: Island County Oak Harbor Skagit County Anacortes Mount Vernon Sedro-Woolley Snohomish County Arlington Bothell Edmonds Lake Stevens Lynnwood Mill Creek Monroe Mountlake Terrace Mukilteo Whatcom County Ferndale Lynden Downloads » TIGER CUBS Act of 2013
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for a bipartisan compromise on student loan interest rates that will cut interest rates for students on federal loans in college and graduate school. Interest rates for undergraduate loans doubled on July 1. “America needs to be telling its young people that we will invest in them,” Larsen said. “This bipartisan compromise stops the doubling of interest rates for students today and locks in those interest rates for the life of the loans. While students in future years will see higher rates, those rates will be capped. It’s not a perfect law, but compromises hardly ever are. “Congress needs to stay focused on keeping college affordable. It’s the right thing to do for students, who need higher education to get the best jobs, and it’s the right thing for our economy, which depends on a well-trained workforce. “We need to expand Pell and Perkins grants that help low- and middle-income students afford college and technical training. And we need to make sure that students are getting the skills they need in college to thrive after graduation.” The bipartisan compromise, passed by the Senate last week, ties student loan interest rates to the rate of a 10-year Treasury note. Loan rates for undergraduate students in the coming academic year will drop from the current law rate of 6.8 percent to 3.86 percent. Rates for graduate students will drop from 6.8 percent to 5.4 percent. Rates for PLUS loans, taken out by parents and graduate students, will fall from 7.9 percent to 6.4 percent. Rates are locked in for the life of the loans, but the rates for new loans can vary over time. The legislation caps the rates at 8.25 percent, 9.5 percent and 10.5 percent respectively.
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Republican leaders pulled a transportation funding bill from the floor, cancelling a planned vote on the bill this evening. “Really? Republicans can vote 40 times to repeal Obamacare, but when it comes to actually governing they can’t find the votes for their own transportation bill? “Republicans didn’t try to write a bill that Democrats could support. But it turns out the Republicans weren’t even able to write a bill that Republicans would support. “Democrats and moderate Republicans knew this bill dangerously gutted job-creating investments. But Tea Party Republicans thought it didn’t cut enough. This is a bit like the story of the three bears, but in this story, if the Tea Party bear doesn’t get the perfect porridge, then he flips over the table and storms out of the room. “In this divided Congress, the only way Republicans can pass legislation is by coming across the aisle and working with Democrats. We’re ready to work.” Larsen, a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, spoke out against the transportation funding bill earlier this month.
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the House Committee on Natural Resources approved the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. “We are one big step closer to protecting the Green Mountain Lookout,” Larsen said. “The Green Mountain Lookout belongs in one place: on Green Mountain. I appreciate Chairman Hastings’ efforts to move this bill forward and I look forward to working with Rep. DelBene to pass this bill through the House soon.” Larsen introduced the first version of the bill last year, and joined Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, and Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell to reintroduce the bill this year. A Senate subcommittee considered the companion bill earlier yesterday.
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following two votes on the National Security Agency’s data collection activities. Larsen voted for one amendment to prevent government collection and storage of Americans’ e-mails and voted against another that would have outright ended the agency’s ability to collect phone record data. “The administration must end its broad dragnet collection and storage of Americans’ data,” Larsen said. “The National Security Agency is abusing its power by collecting so much data on Americans outside of active investigations. Congress needs to end that abuse. “I understand the desire to gut these programs and start over again. However, I could not support the Amash-Conyers amendment because it took a meat cleaver approach when the issue deserves a fully informed debate by Congress. “I introduced the Government Surveillance Transparency Act so the American public can finally know what data the United States government is collecting from them. I also support the Ending Secret Law Act, which would open up the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court’s opinions so Constitutional decisions are no longer locked away from public view. Larsen’s Government Surveillance Transparency Act, which he introduced last week, would allow companies to publicly disclose the volume and type of information they are ordered to turn over to federal intelligence agencies. More information on the bill is available here.
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today testified in support of his bill to provide permanent protection to Samish Tribal lands in Skagit and San Juan counties. H.R. 1225 would put 95 acres of Samish-owned land into federal trust for use by the tribe for community and economic purposes. “This bill will provide permanent protection to Samish Tribal lands, allowing the tribe to continue building a solid foundation for economic growth and preserve vital community services,” Larsen said. “I appreciate the committee taking the time to ask questions about the bill and I look forward to working with them to pass the bill this year.” The House Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Indian and Alaska Native Affairs held the hearing on the legislation today. Samish Indian Nation Chairman Tom Wooten, Upper Skagit Tribe Chairwoman Jennifer Washington, and Bureau of Indian Affairs Director Michael Black also testified on the bill. More information on H.R. 1225 is available here.
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Congress to pass legislation to protect the Green Mountain Lookout. In testimony submitted to the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation, Larsen emphasized the important recreational and historical benefits of the lookout. Larsen first introduced legislation to protect the Green Mountain Lookout in June 2012. He joined Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, and Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell to reintroduce the bill in February. Larsen’s testimony follows: Testimony Before the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva, Thank you for the opportunity to offer testimony in support of H.R. 908, the Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act. I urge you to move this legislation expeditiously. I appreciate the Subcommittee taking time to address this issue, which is important to recreation and rural tourism in Washington state. I also applaud Congresswoman DelBene for her leadership in moving this legislation forward. Green Mountain Lookout is an important part of the region, and reflects a unique and vanishing part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. It is one of few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and is only one of six such lookouts within a Wilderness area. It was also an early warning station during World War II to alert citizens to possible aerial invasion. The Washington State Trust for Historic Preservation has named it one of the ten most endangered buildings in the state. The Snohomish County Council, Darrington Historical Society, and numerous local citizens all support protection of the lookout. I introduced an identical measure in the 112th Congress. At that time, I represented the area that includes the lookout. I heard overwhelmingly from citizens in the area supporting renovations of the lookout, and opposing its removal. I continue to hear from many of my constituents who enjoy outdoor recreation that keeping the Green Mountain Lookout intact is important to them. Despite what you may hear today, this bill is not a reason to attack the merits of the Wilderness Act. It follows the precedent established in the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, PL 110-229, which protected the Evergreen Mountain Lookout in the Wild Sky Wilderness. Thank you again for considering this legislation. I look forward to working with you to ensure that outdoor enthusiasts from around the world can continue to enjoy the experience of visiting the Green Mountain Lookout.
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced nearly $1 million in federal funding for a small shipyard in Bellingham. The $999,100 federal grant to All American Marine is made possible by the U.S. Maritime Administration’s Small Shipyard Grant Program which Larsen has long championed. “Small shipyards in Northwest Washington are jobs powerhouses that help drive our economy,” Larsen said. “I have fought for a long time to fund the small shipyards grants because they keep our shipyards competitive in the international maritime market. This grant for All American Marine will let them make capital investments that will directly support Bellingham workers for years to come.” Larsen has championed the Small Shipyard Grant Program for years, working to maintain funding through letters to Congressional appropriators and advocating for the program in hearings. To learn more about the Small Shipyard Grant Program, visit: https://go.usa.gov/jZZP. All American Marine will use the funding to purchase cranes and other equipment. Larsen last visited All American Marine in March 2012.
07.19.2013	WASHINGTON—Student veterans and their families will be able to better use their GI Bill educational benefits under the bipartisan Veterans Education Transparency (VET) Act introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., and Rep. Don Young, R-Alaska. The VET Act will allow colleges to access information about veterans’ educational benefits so they can provide better counseling to veterans. “Veterans who have served our country have earned every penny and more of their GI Bill education benefits,” Larsen said. “Too often veterans and colleges have incomplete information about their GI benefits, resulting in unexpected tuition bills for student veterans and their families. The VET Act will fix this problem by letting colleges directly access information on veterans’ GI benefits, letting them give the best educational guidance to their students.” “As a veteran and former educator, I understand how important it is to give our nation’s veterans the very best education possible,” Young said. “The VET Act will help our nation’s finest get the absolute most out of their GI Bill education benefits and will help ensure that they are not left holding the bill for an education that they earned through their service to this great nation.” The VET Act (H.R. 2749) would: Give colleges the ability to see each student-veteran’s amount of GI Bill or other educational benefits through eBenefits; Facilitate college planning, so veterans’ counselors or academic counselors could help veterans register for classes to complete their degree in the time covered by their allocated educational benefit; Allow veterans to opt out of sharing their educational benefit information with their college; Enact strict privacy protections for veterans so that their educational benefit information could only be used for education counseling purposes by the educational institution where the veteran is enrolled. The University of Washington has endorsed the VET Act because it allow the school to better help student veterans navigate the complex veterans’ educational benefits programs and coordinate all of their financial aid resources, presenting them with the full array of options available to meet their educational goals. “Ensuring student veterans have complete information on their available educational benefits is goal number one for the University of Washington” says Kay Lewis, Assistant Vice President of Student Life and Director of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at the University of Washington. “The Veterans Education Transparency Act would improve this flow of information and help student veterans meet their educational goals.” The text of the VET Act is available here. Downloads » VET Act Bill Text
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Tech companies will be able to tell their customers when they are required to turn over electronic data to the government if Congress passes a bill introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 would allow companies to publicly disclose the volume and type of information they are ordered to turn over to federal intelligence agencies. Right now companies are barred from acknowledging when they are required to turn over information to the National Security Agency under some sections of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “I am deeply concerned that the government’s secret surveillance programs are apparently scooping up large amounts of personal information on Americans in broad and continuing dragnet operations,” Larsen said. “These programs are operating in the dark with little oversight from Congress and with virtually no information available to the American public. “I am introducing the Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 so that companies can tell their customers when they are required to turn over data. I believe the American people have the right to know what kind of information the government is collecting from them.” Tech companies including Microsoft, Apple, Google and Facebook, have asked the federal government for permission to share more information about requests for information from the National Security Agency. The New York Times reported today that a coalition of tech companies and civil liberties proponents are seeking Congressional action on the issue. One of those companies, Microsoft, welcomed Larsen’s Government Surveillance Transparency Act. “Microsoft supports the goals of the legislation,” said Fred Humphries, Microsoft’s Vice President for U.S. Government Affairs. “Rep. Larsen’s Government Surveillance Transparency Act helps to address the concerns that led Microsoft to ask the U.S. government for authority to be more transparent about the numbers and types of national security requests we may have received. We thank Rep. Larsen [and his co-sponsors] for their leadership on this important issue.” Larsen is also cosponsoring H.R. 2475, the Ending Secret Law Act, a bipartisan bill that will require more transparency directly from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. This bill will require the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to disclose publicly its opinions that contain significant interpretations of laws. Right now, all opinions from this court are secret. The text of the Government Surveillance Transparency Act of 2013 is available here. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. Downloads » Government Surveillance Transparency Act Bill Text» Government Surveillance Transparency Act Fact Sheet
07.17.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, submitted the following statement today to the House Rules Committee during its consideration of H.R. 2610, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2014. Thank you for the opportunity to offer testimony on H.R. 2610, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2014. I am very concerned about the negative effects that this bill could have on our country’s infrastructure investment and I urge you to pass an open rule for its consideration on the House floor. In May, the collapse of the Interstate 5 bridge over the Skagit River shook my district. This bridge doesn’t just connect Burlington and Mount Vernon. It connects the entire West Coast and carries millions of dollars’ worth of trade between Canada and the U.S. The bridge collapse harmed local businesses, kept tourism away from the region, and delayed thousands of travelers throughout the West Coast. A similar incident could have a deadly impact. It is clear that more needs to be done to improve our bridges and roadways. The good news is that we know how to build safe bridges. Thousands of civil engineers devote their lives to building good structures that don’t fall down. But we need to pay for them. We need to maintain our bridges until they are old, and then we need to replace them. We can’t keep waiting until they crumble into the water below. This bill does not achieve that goal. It does not contain the $500 million program included in the Senate THUD bill to immediately fund bridge repair. It maintains level funding for highway and bridge construction and repair at a time when our infrastructure is literally crumbling. As Ranking Member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, I am also concerned about the severe cuts to the capital budget of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in this bill. If enacted into law, the FY14 THUD bill would cut FAA’s capital budget by almost $600 million, beyond the cuts even required by sequestration. This would provide the lowest level of capital funding for FAA since the start of the NextGen program, and the lowest level since 2000. This morning, the Aviation Subcommittee heard testimony from the Department of Transportation Inspector General that such cuts would prevent FAA from implementing many of the long-term investments it has already made in NextGen air traffic management. Squandering past investments for short-term gain is the wrong direction and I am hopeful that this cut is removed in the final version of the bill. I am also concerned that this bill does not contain any funding for TIGER grants, which have provided sorely needed funding to pay for transportation improvements for local communities. While the TIGER program can be improved to provide funding to more mid-sized cities, I believe that providing competitive funding for transportation projects ought to be a bipartisan goal. These serious flaws in the underlying bill require changes, and an open rule would allow members a chance to offer those changes. I urge you to offer an open rule on this bill.
07.12.2013	By RICK LARSEN — COURTESY TO THE BELLINGHAM HERALD Throughout June, dozens of fishing boats pushed out of Bellingham, navigated out of the Sound and set course northwest. They joined hundreds of other fishing boats from Washington, all en route to the teeming waters of Bristol Bay, Alaska, where all five species of Pacific salmon spawn. As a recreational fisherman, I know salmon are a critical part of the identity and culture of the Northwest. But as these fishers will tell you, salmon fishing isn't just a good way to spend a weekend. Salmon fishing is a huge part of our economy here in Bellingham and throughout Northwest Washington. A proposed mine could change that. Read the full op-ed here: https://www.bellinghamherald.com/2013/07/12/3076574/alaskan-pebble-mine-proposal-endangers.html
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON—Health centers across Northwest Washington will receive hundreds of thousands of dollars in federal funds to help enroll uninsured residents in the health care marketplace this fall, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Community Health Center of Snohomish County will receive $194,982 and Bellingham-based Interfaith Community Health Center will receive $95,541. Sea-Mar Community Health Centers, which has locations in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom and Island counties, also received funding. “Starting October, every Washington resident will be able to get affordable quality health insurance,” Larsen said. “These grants will go a long way to helping consumers understand their choices and pick the best health insurance for their families.” The Community Health Centers will use the funding to help consumers understand their coverage options in the Washington Healthplanfinder as well as any financial help they may be qualified to receive. For more information, visit https://www.hhs.gov/news/press/2013pres/07/20130710a.html.
07.10.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, today praised the Federal Aviation Administration’s announcement that it will finalize critical pilot safety rules as directed by Congress. Larsen wrote to Secretary Foxx last Tuesday asking the Department of Transportation to finalize the rules “as swiftly as possible.” “Flying in America has never been safer, but the tragic crash of Asiana Flight 214 is an urgent reminder that we must still constantly look for ways to make it even safer,” Larsen said. “I have been pushing these rules because the American flying public needs to know the government is doing everything we can to make sure the skies are safe.” The new pilot safety rules are a result of the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Administration Extension Act of 2010. Following the fatal crash of Colgan Air Flight 3407 in 2009, Congress directed the Federal Aviation Administration to develop new rules governing pilot training and safety. “The families of the victims of Colgan 3407 have been determined advocates for getting these rules done. I applaud their tireless work to make sure that other families don’t face the same tragedy that they did in 2009.” For more information on the pilot safety rules, visit: https://go.usa.gov/jahh. Downloads » Letter to Foxx on Pilot Safety Rules
07.03.2013	WASHINGTON—San Juan County will receive up to $5.5 million for a major road project on the south of San Juan Island, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. The federal dollars from the Federal Lands Access Program will cover more than 80 percent of the total cost of the realignment of 6,000 feet of Cattle Point Road away from an eroding bluff. “This is a big win over a decade in the making,” Larsen said. “With these dollars, we will now make sure that this critical road will be protected from coastal erosion, allowing residents and visitors alike continued access to beautiful Cattle Point. I thank the Department of Transportation for their attention to this project, and congratulate all the leaders in San Juan County who made this happen.” Cattle Point Road is the only vehicle accessible route to the Cattle Point area, which is home to 270 residents and includes portions of the San Juan Island National Historic Park and the newly established San Juan Islands National Monument. Erosion of a coastal bluff threatens a portion of the road. County officials estimate that by 2026, the road will be within two feet of the bluff. The realignment project will move 6,000 feet of the road 300 feet to the north of the bluff. Larsen has worked with San Juan County and federal agencies on the project for more than a decade. Larsen sent a letter of support for the project in 2011 and sought a Congressional appropriation for the project in 2009. More information on the Cattle Point Road project is available here: https://www.wfl.fha.dot.gov/projects/wa/cattlepoint/. Downloads » 2011 Cattle Point Road Letter of Support
06.26.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the Supreme Court struck down the Defense of Marriage Act and issued an opinion on California’s Proposition 8 case opening the door to same-sex marriage in that state. “Equality had a good day today,” Larsen said. “Starting today, legally married couples in Washington state will have their marriages recognized by their federal government. “I am proud that Washington state voters led the charge for marriage equality, making our state one of the first to legalize same-sex marriage by popular vote. “As we celebrate this decision, we must also rededicate ourselves to eliminating discrimination in all forms. Congress must pass the Employment Non-Discrimination Act and the Respect for Marriage Act, to make sure gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people receive equal protection under the law. We must pass the paycheck fairness act, so women will finally earn equal pay for equal work. And we must fight to strengthen voting rights protections, so all Americans can exercise their right to a ballot.”
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, members of the Washington Congressional delegation urged the Small Business Administration (SBA) to approve Washington state’s request for Economic Injury Disaster Loans for businesses impacted by the Skagit River Bridge collapse. In a letter sent today to SBA Administrator Karen Mills, Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) wrote: “We urge the Small Business Administration (SBA) to promptly evaluate and approve Washington state’s Certification for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan SBA Agency Declaration, allowing SBA personnel and disaster resources to deploy to Skagit County in the wake of the Interstate 5 (I-5) Skagit River bridge collapse on May 23, 2013.” Economic Injury Disaster Loans help impacted businesses cover uninsured expenses and financial obligations after a disaster. Loan amounts can be up to $2 million and depend on a business’s financial need and disaster-related losses. Loan interest rates are 4 percent for a term up to 30 years. In order to qualify, the SBA must determine the business is unable to get credit elsewhere. More information about the loans and eligibility can be found here. “The collapse significantly impacted I-5 traffic for four weeks, causing negative impacts to area small businesses and delaying movement of manufactured goods, tourists visiting the Skagit Valley, and locally-grown agricultural products,” continued the delegation. “Therefore, we strongly support making SBA resources available to help mitigate negative economic impacts to Northwest Washington small businesses.” On June 13, the Northwest Washington delegation announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has made available $15.6 million in emergency funds to support temporary and permanent repairs to the I-5 Skagit River Bridge. On June 19, a temporary bridge span over the Skagit River re-opened. A permanent replacement is expected to be in place by October. The bridge collapsed on May 23. The full text of the letter can be found below. June 25, 2013 The Honorable Karen G. Mills Administrator U.S. Small Business Administration 409 Third Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20416 Dear Administrator Mills: We urge the Small Business Administration (SBA) to promptly evaluate and approve Washington state’s Certification for an Economic Injury Disaster Loan SBA Agency Declaration, allowing SBA personnel and disaster resources to deploy to Skagit County in the wake of the Interstate 5 (I-5) Skagit River bridge collapse on May 23, 2013. As you can imagine, the collapse significantly impacted I-5 traffic for four weeks, causing negative impacts to area small businesses and delaying movement of manufactured goods, tourists visiting the Skagit Valley, and locally-grown agricultural products. Therefore, we strongly support making SBA resources available to help mitigate negative economic impacts to Northwest Washington small businesses. It is not just local small businesses, though, that are feeling the impacts of the collapse. I-5 is a major United States - Canada trade corridor, with up to $20 billion in international freight traveling along the corridor annually. In fact, of the 71,000 vehicles that usually cross the Skagit River bridge daily, an estimated 12 percent are commercial. These shippers, agricultural producers, and manufacturers have been forced to ship goods outside of business hours, evaluate other shipping ports for export, and budget extra time – and money – to move freight and goods to market. Thank you for your prompt evaluation and approval of Washington state’s Certification. We look forward to working with you to bring much needed assistance to Northwest Washington to help small businesses impacted by the I-5 Skagit River bridge collapse.
06.25.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today announced the Army Corps of Engineers has agreed to their request for full funding of the Skagit River General Investigation (G.I.) study for the remainder of the fiscal year. The Army Corps will spend $299,400 on the study, which will shape flood protection for communities throughout the Skagit Valley. “We need the Army Corps to finish this study so we can move on to building flood protection for towns and cities along the Skagit River,” Larsen said. “I am pleased that even under a much tighter budget, the Army Corps answered our call to fully fund this important study. Skagit County leaders are committed to finishing this study because it is the best way to figure out how to protect lives and property in the Skagit Valley.” “Ensuring that the Skagit Valley is prepared for the next devastating flood is critical to protecting the region’s economy and the safety of those who live in its communities,” said DelBene. “Today’s announcement is validation of the united effort by community stakeholders and local elected officials to get the Skagit G.I. done and move forward on comprehensive flood solutions.” Larsen and DelBene met with county leaders in January to discuss flood protection, and requested full funding for the project in April.
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted down H.R. 1947, the House version of the 2013 Farm Bill. The Farm Bill sets agricultural and food policy. “The Farm Bill sets important policy that helps farmers in the Pacific Northwest and is a lifeline for working class Americans who need help to buy food,” Larsen said. “Unfortunately House Republicans loaded the bill with cuts to food assistance and harmful dairy policy, and I must oppose the overall bill. “I am disappointed Republicans chose to cut $20 billion from the food stamp program, which would have ended food assistance for 2 million people and ended free school lunch and breakfast for 210,000 kids. We cannot balance the budget on the back of the neediest Americans who depend on food stamps to put food on the table for their families. “The House’s vote to kill the Dairy Security Act is a short-sighted decision that will hurt dairy farmers and families in Northwest Washington. The Dairy Security Act will help keep milk prices stable, and I will work to include it in the next version of the Farm Bill. “I applaud Rep. DelBene’s work to expand support for specialty crops that will benefit farmers of fruits, vegetables and berries in Northwest Washington. These provisions help make our crops competitive, and they should be included in the Farm Bill. “I also appreciate the bill authors’ efforts to cut direct subsidies to large factory farms that don’t need help. These subsidies inflate our deficit and do not help consumers. I hope we can preserve and expand these reforms as Congress continues debating the Farm Bill. “I am pleased the House rejected this partisan version of the Farm Bill. House leaders should strip the divisive provisions and let the House consider a bipartisan bill.” Larsen is leading the Washington delegation to the international air show on behalf of Gov. Jay Inslee and will miss votes in the House of Representatives this week. He is posting his positions on House votes on this webpage.
06.19.2013	SAFE Bridges Act Provides $5.5 billion for Bridge Replacement & Rehabilitation WASHINGTON – Driven by the recent collapse of the I-5 Bridge in Washington State, U.S. Representative Nick J. Rahall (D-WV) and Congressional Transportation leaders today introduced legislation that significantly increases Federal investment in the Nation’s bridge infrastructure. The Strengthen and Fortify Existing Bridges (SAFE Bridges) Act, provides $5.5 billion to start to reduce the backlog of the more than 150,000 structural deficient and functionally obsolete bridges across the country. “The nightmarish scene we witnessed in Washington State last month with the collapse of the I-5 Bridge was yet another dramatic wakeup call on the state of American infrastructure,” said Rahall, top Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Congress simply cannot keep hitting the snooze button when it comes to needed investment in our Nation’s bridges or think that these aging structures can be rehabilitated with rhetoric. Providing the means for safe and reliable transportation is one of the core functions of our government and this legislation helps fulfill that responsibility.” “The bridge collapse in Washington State is a dramatic reminder that we need to make significant investments in our nation’s transportation system just to bring our current system up to a state of good repair,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), top Democrat on the Highways and Transit Subcommittee. “This isn’t a partisan issue. Structurally deficient and obsolete bridges exist in red and blue districts all across this country. This problem won’t fix itself. Ranking Member Rahall’s bill will make needed federal investments so we can begin to address our most critical needs.” “The collapse of the I-5 Bridge should be an urgent call to action for this Congress,” said Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA). A member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, Larsen’s district includes the northern portion of the I-5 Bridge that collapsed. “We need to maintain our bridges until they are old, and then we need to replace them. We can’t keep waiting until they crumble into the water below. It’s time to put our money where our safety is.” The SAFE Bridges Act, H.R. 2428, provides targeted funding for States to begin addressing the $121.2 billion backlog of deficient highway bridges identified in U.S. DOT’s most recent Conditions and Performance Report. Specifically, the bill authorizes $2.75 billion in both fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2014 for states to rehabilitate and replace their structurally deficient, functionally obsolete, and fracture-critical bridges. Under the legislation, the Department of Transportation would distribute funds among the States by a needs-based formula based on each State’s share of deficient bridges. The funds provided under the SAFE Bridges Act are in addition to the regular Federal-aid highway program funds a State receives, and are not transferable to any other program or activity. Following the collapse of the I-35 Bridge in 2007 the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure developed legislation mandating more rigorous inspection standards and new reporting requirements for States on the condition of their bridges. Many of these heightened safety measures were included in the new surface transportation law approved by Congress last year. However, Federal funding for bridge replacement and repair has remained far below the level required to significantly reduce the backlog of aging bridges across the country. “I know firsthand the tragic consequences that can occur when older bridges are continuously saddled with loads they were never built to accommodate,” said Rahall. “The collapse of the Silver Bridge in my home state of West Virginia claimed the lives of 46 people, 46 years ago. While we absolutely need to identify a more sustainable funding source to address the staggering backlog of aging bridges over the long term, we can’t continue to put at risk the safety of the traveling public in the interim.” Currently, there are 66,749 structurally deficient and 84,748 functionally obsolete U.S. bridges according to the Department of Transportation. The I-5 Bridge, which collapsed in Northwestern Washington State, was rated as functionally obsolete and surpassed its 50 year expected lifespan in 2006. While many States have worked hard to reduce the backlog of deficient bridges, declining federal support for bridge infrastructure has significantly slowed their progress in recent years. Last week, Rahall sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood urging the accelerated implementation of new bridge inspection standards and reporting requirements which Congress approved in the new surface transportation law. Rahall has also requested a detailed assessment of how States and the Federal Highway Administration have responded to warnings about the safety of the nation’s bridges from the Department of Transportation Inspector General. Click here for a summary of the SAFE Bridges Act Click here for the text of the SAFE Bridges Act Click here to see the state-by-state distribution of funds under the SAFE Bridges Act Click here to see the state-by-state breakdown of structurally deficient and functionally obsolete bridges.
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following Governor Jay Inslee’s announcement that the I-5 bridge over the Skagit River will reopen tomorrow. “It’s time for traffic to flow again on I-5,” Larsen said. “To have this bridge open again less than a month after the collapse is an astounding testament to the local, state and federal officials who have worked tirelessly in Skagit County. This is an important first step to permanently fixing the bridge. In the meantime, Skagit County is open for business and ready for visitors.” Last week Larsen spoke on the House floor to urge his colleagues to use the I-5 bridge collapse as a call-to-action to invest in transportation infrastructure.
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in advance of the House of Representatives’ vote on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act which would cut off legal access to abortion services at 20 weeks after fertilization. “How many more ways can Republicans come up with to avoid working on improving the economy?” Larsen said. “Instead of wasting time on divisive bills-to-nowhere, Republicans need to put Congress to work on legislation to replace the job-killing sequester and invest in job-creating 21st century infrastructure. “Since the Roe v. Wade decision 40 years ago, women have had the right to make medical decisions privately with their doctors. I steadfastly support that right.” Larsen is leading the Washington delegation to the international air show on behalf of Gov. Jay Inslee and will miss votes in the House of Representatives this week. He is posting his positions on House votes on this webpage.
06.18.2013	Rep. Rick Larsen, tapped by Governor Jay Inslee to lead the Washington state delegation to the 50th International Paris Air Show, today joined Umbra Cuscinetti, Inc., to announce the company’s move into a newly-renovated, energy-efficient 68,000 square foot facility in Everett, WA. Umbra Cuscinetti is the U.S. entity of Italian-owned Umbra Group. This move allows for the potential addition of 100 manufacturing and engineering jobs and puts the company’s product design and research and development for emerging energy markets under one roof at the new facility near Paine Field. “Umbra Cuscinetti’s growing presence in Washington state adds to our base of more than 131,000 highly skilled aerospace workers who are the best in the world at their jobs. I congratulate Umbra Group on their continued success and their commitment to energy efficient business practices and products,” said Gov. Jay Inslee. “We have been growing steadily since 2009 and are so proud of the work and dedication of the employees that have resulted in us needing to move into a larger facility,” relayed Bob Collett, CEO of Umbra Cuscinetti in Everett. “We look forward to being able to provide even more for our customers with the additional space.” “I congratulate Umbra Cuscinetti on their expansion and look forward to the new job openings in Everett,” Larsen said. “This is just one more sign of the bright future for aerospace workers in Snohomish County, and why we must actively pursue the governor’s strategy to expand the state’s aerospace workforce.” Later at the air show site, Larsen and others joined Philippe Forestier, Executive VP for Global Affairs and Communities of Dassault Systemes, to announce a new joint license agreement with the State Board for Community and Technical Colleges to make the company’s CATIA 5 3D design software available to all 34 of Washington’s two-year colleges. The Center of Excellence for Advanced Manufacturing and Aerospace signed the agreement on behalf of the State Board for Community and Technical Colleges. “More students will now be able to train for jobs using the cutting-edge technology required by Boeing and other manufacturing companies,” Larsen said. “And more Washington businesses will find the highly-skilled workers they need to succeed in a highly-competitive, global marketplace.” Members of the Washington delegation also met with Zodiac Aerospace, a $4.5 billion French company that now has five business units and more than 2,000 employees in Washington state, covering engineering, advanced composite materials manufacturing, cabin interiors, lighting solutions, and in-flight entertainment systems. At Zodiac Cabin Interiors in Bellingham – formerly HeathTechna – employment surged from 250 to 800 in the past three years. Funding from Washington’s Workforce Investment Act played a key role in supporting that rapid expansion. “We congratulate and thank Zodiac for their continued strong growth,” Inslee said. “I’m committed to seeing that we bolster STEM education and add engineering seats in our state universities so we can deliver the current and future workforce that will attract and grow thriving global aerospace companies in Washington state.” The company recently announced creation of Zodiac Center that will consolidate many of the engineering units and coordinate Washington operations in Everett. “Everett is proud to be propelled by one of the world’s most premier aerospace clusters,” Everett Mayor Ray Stephanson said. "Innovative companies such as Umbra Cuscinetti, Pacifica Engineering and Zodiac Aerospace, among others, are attracted to Washington state and Everett for our talent, experience and strategic location." Hexcel, another large European company that supplies advanced composites to customers including Airbus, Boeing and Sikorsky Helicopters, also met with Washington delegates led by Larsen, including King County Executive Dow Constantine. Hexcel has some 800 employees in Kent and recently doubled their Burlington space at Skagit Airport to accommodate 200 workers in their engine program. Additionally, Larsen led face-to-face meetings to match international company needs with Washington state aerospace talent, businesses and regions. These included: Spirit Aerosystems, the world’s largest first tier aero-structures maker based with 15,000 employees in North America, Asia and Europe; Strata, a company of the government-owned Mubadala Group from United Arab Emirates that designs, develops and manufactures aircraft wings and other major units; and Simair, a French company that designs, engineers, manufactures and maintains aerostructures and equipment. The delegation group closed out the day at the air show site by meeting to discuss potential additional work in Washington for the 767 tanker project. Raytheon has 155 employees at the Navy Undersea Warfare Center base in Keyport and the company reports supporting 649 supplier jobs with 206 Washington state suppliers, over 60 percent of which are small businesses. Larsen will return to the International Paris Air Show tomorrow, when he’ll lead discussions with United Technologies, MTorres USA, SAFRAN, Rolls Royce, GE Aviation, a trade delegation from Nagoya, Japan, Airbus North America, and Crane aerospace and Electronics. More information about the Washington delegation’s Air Show activities is available at https://choosewashingtonstate.com/paris2013/ or by following #WAaero on Twitter and Choose Washington’s Paris Air Show blog.
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is leading the Washington delegation to the international air show on behalf of Gov. Jay Inslee this week. As a result, he will miss votes in the House of Representatives. He will announce his position on votes the House takes on this web page. Monday, June 17, 2013 Roll Call Vote 245: On passage of H.R. 876, the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES Roll Call Vote 246: On passage of H.R. 253, the Y Mountain Access Enhancement Act – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES Roll Call Vote 247: On passage of H.R. 862, on the Coconino National Forest – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES Tuesday, June 18, 2013 Roll Call Vote 248: On ordering the previous question. – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 249: On the rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 1947 and H.R. 1797. – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 250: On passage of H.R. 1151 to direct the Secretary of State to develop a strategy to obtain observer status for Taiwan at the triennial International Civil Aviation Organization Assembly. – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 251: On passage of H.R. 1797, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. [Statement] Roll Call Vote 252: On passage of H.R. 1896, regarding international recovery of child support – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Wednesday, June 19, 2013 Roll Call Vote 253: On ordering the previous question. – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 254: On rule to provide for consideration of H.R. 1947. – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 255: On approving the journal. – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 256: McGovern (MA) amendment No. 1 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 257: Foxx (NC) amendment No. 3 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 258: Broun (GA) amendment No. 5 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 259: Blumenauer (OR) amendment No. 8 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 260: Blumenauer (OR) amendment No. 9 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 261: Kaptur (OH) amendment No. 14 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 262: Royce (CA) amendment No. 15 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 263: Chabot (OH) amendment No. 16 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Thursday, June 20, 2013 Roll Call Vote 264: Brooks (AL) amendment No. 18 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 265: Butterfield (NC) amendment No. 25 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 266: Marino (PA) amendment No. 26 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 267: Schweikert (AZ) amendment No. 30 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 268: Tierney (MA) amendment No. 32 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 269: Polis (CO) amendment No. 37 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 270: Garamendi (CA) amendment No. 38 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 271: Marino (PA) amendment No. 41 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 272: McClintock (CA) amendment No. 43 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 273: Gibson (NY) amendment No. 44 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 274: Walorski (IN) amendment No. 45 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 275: Courtney (CT) amendment No. 46 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 276: Kind (WI) amendment No. 47 – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 277: Carney (DE) amendment No. 48 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 278: Goodlatte (VA) amendment No. 99 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 279: Radel (FL) amendment No. 49 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 280: Walberg (MI) amendment No. 50 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 281: Pitts (PA) amendment No. 98 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 282: Fortenberry (PA) amendment No. 100 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 283: Huelskamp (KS) amendment No. 101 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 284: Southerland (FL) amendment No. 102 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. Roll Call Vote 285: On motion to recommit with instructions – Rep. Larsen would have voted YES. Roll Call Vote 286: On passage of H.R. 1947 – Rep. Larsen would have voted NO. [Statement] ###
06.17.2013	PARIS – Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), joined by leaders in Washington state’s aerospace industry, opened the Washington Pavilion at the 50th International Paris Air Show, the largest worldwide event dedicated to the aviation and space industry. Larsen is leading the state’s 51-person delegation at the request of Governor Jay Inslee. Inslee, who canceled plans to attend the Air Show so he could handle ongoing legislative budget negotiations in Washington’s capitol, said Larsen and the delegation are ready to promote job growth and inbound investment in the state’s aerospace sector, which already includes 1,256 companies and employs more than 131,000 workers touching every county in the state. “There is no greater or larger audience for Washington’s aerospace industry than at the Paris Air Show,” Inslee said. “Every two years this event provides a global stage for our businesses and leaders to meet face-to-face with international aerospace companies and government officials and sell Washington state as the premier location for doing business and investing in aerospace.” Larsen’s first day at the air show included meetings with key aerospace leaders including Boeing CEO Jim McNerney. Larsen expressed Washington State's steadfast support for The Boeing Company and shared the governor’s determination to bring together business, government and labor leaders to create the economic climate that makes Washington the best place to build the best airplanes and support thousands of family-wage jobs. "As we approach Boeing’s centennial, Washington has never been more committed to growing the aerospace industry in the state. It’s one of the governor’s highest economic development priorities,” Larsen said. “Governor Inslee has embarked on a comprehensive process to determine what needs to be done and invest strategically to set the stage for success.” Inslee has proposed more than $20 million to the 2013 Legislature for aerospace-related education and workforce training programs, more engineering degree slots at state universities, and funding for highway, bridge and port improvements The state’s Aerospace Industry Strategy, announced in May, provides a long-term plan to grow the aerospace cluster and prioritizes specific activities for 2013/2014, the most significant of these being winning the 777X, as well as its carbon fiber wings. Among the initiatives is an inter-agency initiative led by Everett Mayor Ray Stephenson to modernize and streamline land-use planning processes. “Everett is proud to be propelled by one of the world’s premier aerospace clusters,” Mayor Stephanson said. "Innovative companies such as Umbra Cuscinetti, Pacifica Engineering and Zodiac Aerospace, among others, are attracted to Washington State and Everett for our talent, experience and strategic location." Larsen, Commerce Director Brian Bonlender and Office of Aerospace Director Alex Pietsch today also met with executives from BAE Systems, Spanish aeronautical supplier Aciturri, Germany’s Diehl Aerospace, and Liebherr aerospace about possible expansion and investment in Washington state. Liebherr is a German multinational corporation that serves tunnel construction, cranes, industrial machinery and the alternative energy sector in addition to aerospace. Additionally, Larsen and the delegation met with executives from two of France’s large regional aerospace clusters to discuss partnership and investment opportunities. Companies located in the ASTech Paris regional cluster account for some 100,000 jobs, with the vast majority in aerospace research and development. ASTech member companies SAFRAN and Dassault Systemes have a strong presence in Washington State. Washington’s delegation also met with leaders from the Aerospace Valley World Competitiveness Cluster, which has 560 member companies comprising over 120,000 jobs around the Airbus final assembly plant in Toulouse. 2013 is the 50th anniversary of the International Paris air Show in Le Bourget, France. With more than 2,000 exhibitors from 45 countries, 151,000 trade visitors, 3,200 journalists and 290 official delegations from 82 countries, the biennial show is a key point in the global aerospace industry's economic cycle. It is the essential event for meeting aviation and space industry professionals, discovering the latest innovations and touting our local aerospace companies and suppliers. This year, the United States pavilion is the largest international group, with a record 34 states represented among 22 separate state exhibits. Washington State has attended or exhibited at the past 14 International Paris Air Shows. This year’s delegation of 51 is the largest group to date of Washington leaders, educators and aerospace businesses. Companies in the 2011 delegation directly attribute $4.9 million in sales to deals and relationships forged at the air show. For more information about Washington’s aerospace legacy, watch the “Century of Know How” interactive history featured in Washington State’s pavilion or at choosewashingtonstate.com/paris2013.
06.14.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, successfully attached several key provisions to a defense bill the House of Representatives passed today. Larsen’s provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2014 will support the Northwest economy and improve the national defense. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee which wrote the bill. “This defense bill meets the needs of our sailors and aviators in Northwest Washington and our troops around the world,” Larsen said. “The provisions I included in this bill will strengthen the economy in Northwest Washington and make our nation stronger.” The bill includes: The language of Larsen’s bill to help small- and medium-sized businesses secure government contracts. More information on Larsen’s bill is available here. A Larsen amendment to designate a senior official within the Department of Defense to facilitate the transfer of prisoners detained at Guantanamo Bay. A Larsen amendment to restore funding to research and development in the nuclear nonproliferation budgets at the Department of Energy and Department of Defense. Full funding ($3.2 billion) for the P-8A Poseidon program The Navy recently announced its plan to base all seven Pacific squadrons of the Boeing-built Poseidons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Full funding ($1.6 billion) for the KC-46 refueling tanker. The KC-46 is being constructed at Boeing’s Everett Factory. Full funding for three construction projects at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, including $32.482 million for EA-18G facility improvements, $85.176 million for P-8A facilities and $10 million to replace the fuel pier breakwater. Larsen also strongly supported an amendment to accelerate the withdrawal from Afghanistan. That measure passed with a bipartisan vote of 305 to 121.
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to accelerate American forces withdrawal from Afghanistan and end the possibility of indefinite military detention for those apprehended on U.S. soil. Larsen voted for two amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013. The Afghanistan amendment, offered by Rep. Jim McGovern, passed on a 305-121 vote. The amendment on indefinite detention, offered by Rep. Adam Smith, failed on a 200-226 vote. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives spoke with a strong voice to end our combat mission in Afghanistan,” Larsen said. “It is beyond time to transfer combat operations to Afghan officials and bring American troops home. The President should listen to this strong bipartisan statement by the House. “I strongly support the Smith amendment because it would restore due process and a respect for our Constitutionally-defined judicial process. Unfortunately, a majority of House Republicans voted to leave the door open to letting the military indefinitely detain American citizens. I am committed to working with Rep. Smith to restore due process and end the possibility of indefinite military detention for those apprehended on U.S. soil.”
06.13.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today announced that counties in Northwest Washington will receive $4,373,452 in federal funds to support rural police, firefighters and schools. The Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) funding compensates county governments for nontaxable federal lands. “These dollars go directly into our classrooms and police and fire departments, providing rural counties the support they need to serve our residents,” Larsen said. “I know how important these dollars are to Whatcom, Snohomish and Skagit counties, which is why I fought to extend this lifeline funding last year.” “Investing in our local roads, bridges and funding vital public services such as firefighting and police services is how we build vibrant, strong communities,” said DelBene. “Today’s announcement will help rural communities throughout Western Washington fund these critically important services that our local businesses and residents count on. The PILT payments are as follows: Whatcom County: $1,552,202 Snohomish County: $1,163,957 Skagit County: $975,323 King County: $681,970 Congress extended the PILT program last year as part of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012. To learn more about the PILT program, visit www.doi.gov/pilt.
06.13.2013	OLYMPIA – The legislative budget stalemate has led Gov. Jay Inslee to cancel his participation in an upcoming aerospace trade mission. Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will lead the state's delegation in the governor's place. The governor was due to leave Friday to lead a delegation of 52 aerospace executives, educators and economic development professionals to the 50th International Paris Air Show. There, the governor was due to meet with officials of the Boeing Company, as well as with CEOs and other high-ranking executives of more than two dozen companies from around the world. The air show is a premier industry event for commercial aerospace manufacturers and suppliers. “I am disappointed I will not be able to join the delegation on this trade mission as we make the case that Washington is the best place for aerospace manufacturers and suppliers,” the governor said. “We are fortunate that Congressman Larsen, a longtime champion of the industry and a leader in international trade policy, agreed to my request and will step in to lead the delegation.” The Washington Legislature is in its second special session after failing to reach a budget compromise. The governor is actively involved in budget negotiations in Olympia and has begun contingency planning in case a budget is not approved by June 30, the end of the current two-year budget cycle. “Washington is the aerospace capital of the world, and next week we are going to work hard to keep it that way,” Larsen said. “Governor Inslee knows his first job is getting a budget agreement that invests in education and infrastructure to keep our state’s economy growing. As a leader on the House Aviation Subcommittee and the representative of tens of thousands of aerospace workers and dozens of suppliers, I am eager to advocate for this critical part of our economy on Governor Inslee’s behalf.” Larsen, WA-02, is the ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation including safety, infrastructure, labor, commerce and international issues, and oversees the Federal Aviation Administration. Washington’s 2nd District is home to Boeing’s largest facility where workers make the 747s, 767s, 777s, 787s and the new Air Force KC-46 refueling tanker. The District is also home to dozens of aerospace suppliers.
06.13.2013	Murray, Cantwell, Larsen, DelBene applaud USDOT emergency funding to support an I-5 Bridge replacement WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, members of the Washington delegation announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) will make available $15.6 million in emergency funds to support repairs to the I-5 Skagit River Bridge. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (WA-01) announced that the USDOT Emergency Relief funds will be used to support the temporary and permanent replacement of the bridge, which collapsed on May 23. The USDOT Emergency Relief program provides emergency funding for highway repair after natural disasters or catastrophic failures from an external cause. The Emergency Relief program was reauthorized in last year’s transportation bill, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century, which passed Congress in June 2012 and was signed by President Obama in July 2012. In order to receive USDOT Emergency Relief, the state is required to request funding and make a formal declaration of emergency. On May 24, Washington Governor Jay Inslee declared a State of Emergency for Skagit, Snohomish, and Whatcom counties. “Today's announcement is great news for Washington state families and businesses who rely on I-5 every day,” Murray said. “It’s also an important step for communities in Northwest Washington whose local economies have paid the price in the wake of this collapse. I'm working closely with transportation officials to put temporary and permanent fixes in place, but we can't stop there. This accident was a wake-up call for our state and our entire country that we can no longer afford to put off repairs and replacements for our aging infrastructure.” “The federal commitment to $15 million means thousands of commuters and truckers will get to their destination quicker,” Cantwell said. “Time means money, in this case: $38 million of U.S.-Canada trade cargo crosses the Skagit River on trucks every day. Today, the federal government is stepping up to the plate and meeting its commitment to rapidly restoring a vital route for the Pacific Northwest's economy. I appreciate Secretary LaHood's responsiveness to this emergency and want to thank him for his hard work to help Washington state's economy recover.” “This money will go a long way to getting traffic moving again on Interstate 5,” Larsen said. “This is a sterling example of what happens when government at all levels works together to solve problems. I appreciate the U.S. Department of Transportation’s commitment to getting our bridge fixed as quickly and safely as possible.” “Over the last few weeks, the community and local businesses around the Skagit Valley have done a tremendous job coping with the disruption and delays caused by the bridge collapse. The community has done everything possible to keep Skagit County open for business, but reopening the corridor is key,” DelBene said. “Last weekend, I was pleased to see in person the progress construction crews are making in building the temporary structure. The release of today’s federal funds demonstrates the federal government’s commitment to getting Skagit’s local economy moving again.”
06.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, delivered the following statement today at the Subcommittee’s hearing on “Lessons Learned from the Boeing 787 Incidents.” The hearing webcast is available here: https://transportation.house.gov/hearing/lessons-learned-boeing-787-incidents. Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing to review lessons learned from the Boeing 787 incidents. Mr. Chairman, I believe that we should start this hearing by acknowledging that we are in an incredibly safe period for U.S. commercial aviation. We have not had a fatal commercial passenger accident in the U.S. since 2009, and we owe a great deal of credit for that to the dedicated safety professionals at agencies like the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Additionally, the Boeing Company has been a world leader in the airplane business for almost a century. It has maintained its leadership by making safety a priority. The Boeing 787 pushes the technological envelope. The certification itself was an eight-year process. The 787’s lithium-ion batteries, like many of the aircraft’s design features, are a new and constantly evolving technology not specifically covered by existing FAA regulations. We know the FAA worked with Boeing to develop Special Conditions that would ensure the safety of this new technology. The process for developing these Special Conditions was collaborative, rigorous and transparent. These conditions took over a year to develop, and were published in the Federal Register for public comment. Nevertheless, we had two serious safety incidents involving Boeing 787 lithium-ion technology in roughly a week’s time. These incidents caused the FAA and other international regulators to ground the 787 for more than three months. The grounding raises legitimate questions for the flying public about whether the certification process with the 787 worked as well as it should have. In response to these two incidents, Boeing devoted more than 200,000 engineering hours to understand the cause of these incidents and develop technical solutions to prevent or mitigate any further incidents. Likewise, the FAA stepped up its own involvement in the testing and analysis activities required to certify the new battery design. As a result, the Boeing 787 modifications certified by the FAA have been completed, and all of the airplanes are now back in service. Mr. Chairman, we both agree that safety is always this Subcommittee’s highest priority. With the 787 safely flying again, now is an appropriate time for this Subcommittee to review these incidents and glean lessons learned that could further improve aviation safety. In April, the Government Accountability Office raised concerns before the Senate Commerce Committee that “FAA staff have not been able to keep pace with industry changes and, thus, may struggle to understand the aircraft or equipment they are tasked with certificating.” The NTSB’s independent investigation of the January 7 Japan Airlines 787 incident is exploring this key issue, and should be completed later this year. The FAA is conducting its own review of the Boeing 787’s certification process. Looking forward, Congress must ensure that the FAA is adequately staffed and that the agency is positioned to understand and challenge assumptions put forward by manufacturers regarding new technologies. I’m hoping to hear from FAA and Boeing today about how the special conditions for the 787 were developed, and whether they were strict enough. I also want to investigate whether the resources required to recertify the 787 were enough. In February, I expressed concerns at this Subcommittee’s FAA reauthorization hearing that sequestration could negatively affect FAA certification activities. I would like to hear from Ms. Gilligan whether she believes that sequestration, budget cuts and hiring freezes are impairing the FAA’s ability to attract and retain technical competencies required to certify new technologies. Also, I would like to hear about the FAA’s efforts to retain independent technical expertise from outside the agency when necessary to assist in the certification of new technologies. Lastly, I hope that we’ll have time to investigate the lessons learned from this process, and how the FAA will certify aircraft with lithium ion batteries in the future. Thank you Mr. Chairman, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.
06.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Dave Reichert, WA-08, today introduced a bill to help small businesses in Washington state, and across the country, export their products overseas. The bipartisan Next STEP Act of 2013 would permanently authorize the State Trade and Export Promotion (STEP) program, which helps small businesses trying to overcome hurdles to exporting. “When our small businesses export their products overseas, they create jobs here at home,” Larsen said. “The STEP program has helped hundreds of businesses in Washington state generate millions of dollars of sales. Every dollar we spent through STEP brought back $75 to our state. That kind of success begs repeating. I am pleased to work on a bipartisan basis with Congressman Reichert to help Northwest businesses grow and create jobs.” “We must support our small businesses seeking to increase their footprints abroad or those exporting for the first time,” Reichert said. “This bipartisan bill is intended to do just that. With the overwhelming majority of consumers living outside of our borders, we need to work together to encourage small businesses to engage in the global economy, creating jobs here at home. I look forward to continued work in support of our exporters with my colleague Congressman Larsen.” The STEP program was created by Congress in 2010 as a three-year pilot program, and is set to expire next year. In Washington state, 387 businesses used STEP funding to boost their exports. According to the Washington State Department of Commerce, this has resulted in an increase of more than $29 million in export sales and supported more than 1,200 jobs. Algona-based Cimtech, Inc. and Burlington-based Commercial Aircraft Interiors both used STEP grants to make contracts abroad. “We have made connections that over time will certainly lead to profitable opportunities,” said Cimtech President Steve Kidd. A fact sheet on the Next STEP Act is available here. The text of the bill is available here. More information on the STEP program from the U.S. Small Business Administration is available here. Downloads » Next STEP Act Bill Text» Next STEP Act Fact Sheet
06.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, took to the floor of the House of Representatives today to urge his colleagues to invest in transportation infrastructure following the May 23 collapse of the Interstate 5 bridge spanning the Skagit River. Larsen, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said Congress must invest in our roads bridges and highways because “we can’t keep waiting until they crumble into the water below.” The video and full text of Larsen’s floor speech follows: Mr. Speaker: A couple weeks ago, Dan and Sally Sligh packed up their camper and headed out on Interstate-5 on the way to their favorite campsite in Northwest Washington state. While crossing a bridge over the Skagit River they had safely crossed many times before, a large truck ahead of them clipped the frame of the bridge above. Without warning, and without time to react, the pavement under Dan’s pickup fell from under them. Next, Dan said, “It was just a white flash and cold water.” Like thousands of constituents, I myself have driven across that bridge hundreds of times. But now, today no cars are crossing it. Recovery workers have been hard at work pulling pieces of that bridge, along with Dan’s pickup, from the flowing waters of the Skagit River, and quickly building a replacement span. The fact that no one died in this collapse is a blessing. But not all have been so lucky. My colleagues will remember in 2007 when a bridge spanning the Mississippi River in Minneapolis crashed down during rush hour, killing 13 people and injuring another 145. Today I want to ask my colleagues a simple question: should not Americans be able to drive across a highway bridge with the reasonable expectation that it will not crumble away from underneath them? On Thursday this week the Senate Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee will hold a hearing on the Skagit River bridge collapse. I spoke this morning to the chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board about its investigation. I am eager to read their report on the incident. But what we already know about our aging infrastructure should be enough to make this Congress act. Sixty-seven thousand bridges in our country are rated structurally deficient. Sixty-seven thousand bridges. When those bridges fall, it isn’t just the unlucky few on those bridges who suffer. Whole economies that rely on safe and efficient transportation suffer. The I-5 bridge over the Skagit River doesn’t just connect Burlington and Mount Vernon. It connects the entire West Coast and carries millions of dollars’ worth of trade between Canada and the U.S. Today that trade is in stop-and-go traffic on local roads. But here’s the good news: We know how to build safe bridges. There are thousands of civil engineers devoting their lives today to building good structures that don’t fall down. But we need to pay for them. We need to maintain our bridges until they are old, and then we need to replace them. We can’t keep waiting until they crumble into the water below. President Obama wants to “fix it first” by spending $40 billion on highways, bridges, transit systems and airports that are most in need of repair. That’s a good start, and Congress should approve this funding. But if we’re really going to do something about our long-term transportation needs, this body, this Congress needs to get to work on a long-term transportation bill that doesn’t just patch our aging roads, but invests in an infrastructure that meets the needs of America’s 21st century economy. We can’t have a big league economy with a little league infrastructure. Now over Memorial Day more than 31 million Americans hit the roads. I ask my colleagues, were you among them? How many bridges did you drive over? How many were structurally deficient? If you think your constituents should be able to drive over a bridge without wondering whether it will crumble beneath them, then this Congress must act on a long-term transportation bill. It’s time to put our money where our safety is.
06.07.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding news reports that the Obama administration is collecting vast amounts of telephone and web data, including data on American citizens. “The FISA Court’s job is to watch the watchers. But if recent reports are true, they are in fact rubberstamping the watchers. These programs need to be subject to aggressive scrutiny and oversight, and if they’re not, Congress needs to fix them. “The FISA Court exists to provide judicial oversight of law enforcement when they are using enhanced surveillance tools. These tools are legitimate when used in targeted and limited investigations of foreign nationals to protect Americans. The administration is apparently using the FISA Court inappropriately to gather information on Americans in broad and continuing dragnet operations. This is not the kind of behavior that Congress expected when we voted to give intelligence agencies these expanded authorities. It is becoming clear that the intelligence community and the FISA Court have become either lazy or arrogant with their use of these powers. “The Obama administration is apparently telling Americans “just trust us.” That’s the same thing we heard from the Bush administration. The President is wrong to imply that his administration is keeping all of Congress fully informed about these programs. That isn’t true of any program the federal government operates. He is trying to deflect responsibility. At this point, it is hard to remember if Barack Obama’s middle initial is H or W.”
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged President Obama to prevent the development of mining projects in Bristol Bay, Alaska, that would threaten the Washington state fishing industry. “I urge you to prevent development of any mining project that would have detrimental impacts on the jobs the Alaska fishing industry provides to small businesses in my district in Northwest Washington state and throughout the West Coast,” Larsen wrote. The full text of Larsen’s letter is below. June 6, 2013 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Many small business owners in my district that fish in Alaska for the commercial market have contacted me about their concerns about the impacts the proposed Pebble Mine near Bristol Bay, Alaska, could have on their businesses. I urge you to prevent development of any mining project that would have detrimental impacts on the jobs the Alaska fishing industry provides to small businesses in my district in Northwest Washington state and throughout the West Coast. The Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of Alaska-Anchorage found that over 3,000 jobs in Washington state depend on the Bristol Bay fishery. The same study showed that 769 of the total 2,777 permit holders for fishing in the Bristol Bay are Washington residents. That number represents 28 percent of all permit holders. Many of these permit holders are in my district. Fish processors, restaurants, shipbuilders, and commercial fishers rely on sockeye salmon to keep their businesses open. These small businesses add up to a large economic driving force. The Bristol Bay fishery provides the largest sockeye salmon fishery in the world with a harvest of over 27 million salmon each year. These salmon are more than an important ecological and cultural resource; they are an economic force throughout the West Coast. If the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) permits the Pebble Mine, I am concerned that this economic force will be at risk. The EPA scientific assessment of a mine in the area suggests that a loss of rearing habitat, stream flow reductions, wetland loss, waste leakage, and runoff will all have significant impacts on salmon populations. The EPA also found that a dam failure associated with mining could completely destroy salmon populations on some rivers and streams. I ask that you move quickly to finalize the Bristol Bay Watershed Assessment and that you do not allow the Pebble Mine to further threaten the economic sustainability of fishers in my district. I appreciate your continuing leadership on these issues and look forward to working with you to ensure the long term health of fisheries in the Northwest. Sincerely, Rick Larsen US Congressman Washington, 2nd District
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a bill that would restart deportations of young undocumented immigrants known as DREAMERS. Larsen voted against a homeland security funding bill after the House of Representatives voted to attach an amendment ending deferred deportation action for young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and have no criminal records. “The House of Representatives sent an ominous warning to thousands of young immigrants today,” Larsen said. “The Republicans’ vote to restart deportations of DREAMers makes it abundantly clear that comprehensive immigration reform must include passing the DREAM Act to provide permanent protection to these young immigrants. “I have spoken to a lot of DREAMers in Northwest Washington who only want to stay here and continue to contribute to the country they know as home. These are people who were brought to this country as children, graduated from our schools, served in our military, and now want to continue realizing the American dream. They are exactly the kind of immigrants who made this country great.”
06.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is the lead cosponsor of a bipartisan bill introduced today that will provide critical funding to schools that serve military families and Indian tribes. The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2013, which Larsen cosponsored with Rep. Kristi Noem, a Republican from South Dakota, continues funding for Impact Aid, which provides payments to school districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes. “Without Impact Aid, schools in Oak Harbor, Marysville and La Conner would not be able to keep teachers and textbooks in classrooms,” Larsen said. “This bipartisan bill will provide permanent reliable funding to our schools, allowing them to provide the best opportunities to our students today and well into the future.” The majority of public school funding comes from local property taxes. Families on military bases and on Indian lands do not pay local property taxes, denying local schools their traditional funding source. Impact Aid makes up the difference, providing direct payments to school districts that serve large numbers of federally-connected students. “It’s important that we level the playing field for these districts who experience a lower local property tax base due to this federal land or educate federally connected students,” Noem said. “I was proud to work with Rep. Larsen in crafting this common-sense, bipartisan bill to make sure we are supporting our schools and students.” The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2013 will: Make the Impact Aid program permanent; Require the Department of Education to make Impact Aid payments to school districts within three years; Make school districts whose student bodies consist at least 45 percent federally-connected students eligible for Impact Aid; Make it easier for school districts to receive the grant funding they need to make major school repairs. Larsen successfully included his Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act in last year’s National Defense Authorization Act. But that provision is due to expire. The Local Taxpayer Relief Act of 2013 will make that provision permanent. The Oak Harbor School District receives more than 10 percent of its funds from Impact Aid. Superintendent Rick Schulte endorsed the legislation and thanked Larsen for his leadership on the bill. “Congressman Larsen has been a leader on Impact Aid since the day he was elected and has been extremely helpful to Oak Harbor schools,” Schulte said. The National Association of Federally Impacted Schools (NAFIS) also endorsed the bill. “We thank the sponsors of this bill and urge members of Congress to consider cosponsoring this important piece of legislation that is a critical lifeline for federally impacted schools,” said NAFIS Executive Director John Forkenbrock. The text of the bill is available here. Sens. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, and John Thune, R-S.D., introduced companion legislation in the Senate today. Learn more about the Impact Aid program here. Downloads » NAFIS Endorsement» Impact Aid Bill
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON—The House Armed Services Committee will approve a national defense bill that includes several provisions important to Northwest Washington, committee member Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The committee will vote on the National Defense Authorization Act of 2014 tonight and the full House will consider the bill next week. “With this bill, the House of Representatives is keeping the nation’s commitment to Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “From the sailors and aviators at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island to the men and women working at Boeing, this bill supports those who are working to make our nation safer and our local economy stronger.” The bill includes the following provisions: The P-8A Poseidon program is fully funded at $3.2 billion. The Navy recently announced its plan to base all seven Pacific squadrons of the Boeing-built Poseidons at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. The Air Force KC-46 refueling tanker program is fully funded at $1.6 billion. The KC-46 is being constructed at Boeing’s Everett Factory. According to the Everett Herald, the first KC-46 will be assembled this month in Everett. The bill fully funds three construction projects at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island that Larsen announced in April. The bill contains $32.482 million for EA-18G facility improvements, $85.176 million for P-8A facilities and $10 million to replace the fuel pier breakwater. These funds were also included in a military construction appropriations bill passed by the House yesterday. The bill also includes a provision that Larsen co-authored requiring the Department of Energy to develop a detailed plan for retrieval, treatment and disposition of tank farm waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation. Larsen is a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee.
06.05.2013	WASHINGTON—An Island County service member’s request for help from Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, turned into a new veterans health care policy approved by the U.S. House of Representatives last night. Shirin Lane, a retiring Air Force service member who lives in Clinton, wrote to Larsen in March asking for assistance when the disability rating she received for her fibromyalgia was not consistent with standard medical assessments. Because of this lower disability rating, Lane is not slated to receive Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) benefits commensurate with her need when she retires this year. Larsen successfully attached language to a VA funding bill that directs the VA to update the Veterans Affairs Schedule for Rating Disabilities (VASRD) according to up-to-date, medically accurate standards. Some portions of the VASRD have not kept pace with medical standards. The change will benefit veterans like Lane who have fibromyalgia or other disorders about which medical professionals have learned more in recent years. “I am really grateful to Congressman Larsen and his staff who worked so hard and so quickly to fix this,” Lane said. “Even if this policy doesn’t affect me, I’m grateful that it will help veterans who come after me.” “Shirin spoke up, and I listened,” Larsen said. “Health care and benefits for veterans should be determined based on the best medical information available. Thanks to Shirin, they will be.” “This story is a perfect example of how my actions are guided by what people in Northwest Washington tell me is important to them,” Larsen added. “If this Air Force veteran had not told me about her challenge, Congress would not have addressed this problem as quickly as we have.” The House of Representatives passed the bill, which funds the VA as well as military construction projects, on a 421 to 4 vote last night. Congress will likely vote on final legislation later this year.
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today opposing an amendment that would cut worker pay on federally-funded public works projects. Larsen will vote against the amendment that undermines the Davis-Bacon Act requirement that federal contractors pay local prevailing wages. “Workers in Northwest Washington deserve to be paid fair wages,” Larsen said. “I will oppose this effort to undermine the Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements because the federal government should pay workers at the same wage they earn from private or state and local work.” The amendment would apply to funding for construction projects in the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
06.03.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $303,827 federal grant for Everett Community College to help students pursue training in aerospace and advanced manufacturing. The National Science Foundation grant will support the college’s Aerospace and Advanced Manufacturing program. “Aerospace manufacturing is a real bright spot in the Pacific Northwest’s economy, providing thousands of good, high-paying jobs,” Larsen said. “This federal grant will help more high school and college students in Snohomish County get the training they need for these good jobs. From the smallest suppliers up to Boeing, manufacturers throughout the Northwest have told me they need well-trained workers to meet the sector’s growing demand.” The funding will allow the program to promote training opportunities to high school students and their parents, and help keep at-risk college students enrolled. To learn more about Everett Community College’s Aerospace and Advanced Manufacturing program, visit: https://www.everettcc.edu/ccec/aerospace/. To learn more about this grant, visit: https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1304863.
05.31.2013	OAK HARBOR—The Oak Harbor School District received a $318,000 federal payment this week thanks to legislation authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Impact Aid payment, which helps schools that serve large numbers of military families or Indian families, arrived a year earlier than expected because of a provision Larsen successfully included in last year’s National Defense Authorization Act. “Impact Aid is a lifeline for schools here in Oak Harbor and throughout Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Schools have for too long been left in the dark about when they would receive these federal dollars that let them keep teachers in their classrooms. This speedy payment will let Oak Harbor schools plan their budgets and make sure kids are getting the best opportunities.” Oak Harbor School District Superintendent Rick Schulte announced the payment with Larsen during a discussion about new legislation Larsen is drafting to further improve the Impact Aid program. Larsen and Schulte met with parents, teachers and other community leaders at Olympic View Elementary School where about three in four students come from military families. Impact Aid provides funding to compensate school districts that lose tax revenue due to a large concentration of federally-owned land, including school districts with military bases. But payments are often delayed, leaving school districts with budget shortfalls. The Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act relieves those pressures by requiring the federal government to pay school districts what they owe within three years. For more information on the Impact Aid program, visit https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/oese/impactaid/index.html.
05.29.2013	Dear Neighbor, I was shocked Thursday night to learn of the collapse of the Interstate-5 bridge into the Skagit River. I applaud the excellent response by first responders and the coordinated effort between local, state and federal officials in the last few days. We are lucky that the three victims of the collapse did not sustain more serious injuries and that no one died in this horrific incident. I would like to briefly update you on the way forward. First, please know that Skagit County and the rest of Northwest Washington are open for business. While the bridge repairs and I-5 detours will slow down traffic a bit in the coming weeks, businesses from Burlington to Bellingham and from Sedro-Woolley to San Juan Island are open and eager to serve customers. With summer just around the corner, it’s a great time to get out and enjoy all that our region has to offer. I visited the bridge earlier this week with top state and federal officials. The state has a plan to temporarily repair the bridge by mid-June and fully repair it by this fall. The Washington State Department of Transportation has created this website to provide updates on the repair progress as well as traffic information in the region. I spoke to U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood immediately after the collapse and he assured me that federal funding and permitting will be expedited for the repairs. I will continue working with state and federal officials to ensure the bridge is repaired quickly and safely. Federal investigators are at the scene and are learning more every day about why this happened and how to prevent future incidents like it. A lot of businesses in the area lost customers who chose to stay away from the area over Memorial Day weekend. These businesses may qualify for special economic injury disaster loans through the U.S. Small Business Administration. Washington state is collecting data from businesses in the region that may have suffered losses because of the collapse. Business owners can visit this website to learn more about how to submit information. The I-5 bridge doesn’t just connect Burlington to Mount Vernon. It connects the entire West Coast and is a vital trade corridor between the United States and Canada. Seven in 10 trucks that cross the border in Blaine end up using this bridge, carrying $14 billion in international trade each year. I am committed to making sure this bridge is repaired so folks like you can get their commutes and leisure travel back on track, and so commerce keeps flowing in Washington state. And when I go back to Congress next week, I will be telling my colleagues about what happened in Skagit County and will continue to make the case for investing in our roads, bridges and highways so incidents like this don’t happen here or anywhere else again. If I or my office can answer any further questions or provide assistance, please call (360) 733-4500. Sincerely, Rick Larsen United States Representative Washington State, 2nd Congressional District
05.24.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the I-5 bridge collapse in Skagit County: “I spoke this morning with Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. Secretary LaHood confirmed that the Department of Transportation has emergency funds available to aid repairs. The Department of Transportation has established an interagency task force to expedite the permitting process for the bridge repair. “I updated House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) on the situation in Skagit County. I appreciate his commitment to help in any way that he can. “Members of my staff have been at the scene since last night and are working from the Emergency Operations Center in Mount Vernon. My office is coordinating with local, state and federal officials as repairs are planned and executed. “I applaud the excellent work of first responders who safely rescued the victims of this collapse. Local and state officials handled this incident professionally and efficiently.”
05.23.2013	8:27 p.m. PDT WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement following the I-5 bridge collapse in Skagit County: “I am monitoring the bridge collapse in Skagit County. My office stands ready to assist emergency responders and local and state officials. I encourage people to follow police instructions and stay away from the site of the collapse to let first responders address the situation safely.”
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced a jobs bill that will help small- and medium-sized businesses grow by equipping them with tools to compete for federal, state and local government contracts. Larsen’s bill would lower costs and increase funding for Procurement Technical Assistance Centers (PTACs) which help businesses meet requirements for government contracts. “My top priority is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “This bill will help more Washington companies compete for government contracts, letting them hire more workers. “Small- and medium-sized businesses often provide the best products at the lowest costs. Because of complex contracting requirements, these businesses often need assistance to compete for government projects. My bill will allow Procurement Technical Assistance Centers to help more businesses compete for government contracts. “This bill is a real twofer. It will help companies grow and create jobs, and it will get the best products at the lowest costs to federal, state and local agencies." Washington PTAC has helped more than 2,200 businesses secure $222 million in government contracts and subcontracts since 2011, creating or retaining thousands of jobs. Washington PTAC runs seven local centers around the state, including through the Economic Alliance of Snohomish County which serves Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties, and the Thurston Economic Development Council which serves Island and San Juan counties. PTACs are jointly funded by the Defense Logistics Agency and local match funds. Larsen’s bill would lower the local cost-share requirements for PTACs from 50 percent to 35 percent. It would also increase federal funding for the programs, raising the cap on funding for statewide programs from $600,000 to $750,000 and the cap for regional programs from $300,000 to $450,000. The text of the bill is available here. Downloads » PTAC Improvement Bill
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today highlighted new economic data showing jobs progress in Northwest Washington and called for Congressional action to accelerate the jobs recovery. The latest unemployment numbers for April 2013 show unemployment at the lowest rates for the same month in the last four years in Island, King, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish and Whatcom counties. “The jobs recovery in Northwest Washington is real, but it can be better,” Larsen said. “We are not yet back where we need to be and Congress can take actions that will accelerate the jobs recovery. The sequester’s automatic untargeted spending cuts are dragging the economy down in the short term. Congress should replace the sequester with a balanced deficit reduction plan. We must also focus on long-term economic growth by investing in our roads, bridges, highways, ports and transit systems. And we must make sure that young people can get the best new jobs by keeping college affordable through Pell Grants and low-cost student loans.” “The slow, but steadily improving job numbers in Northwest Washington are encouraging and highlight the resilience of our local economy despite the gridlock in Congress,” DelBene said. “To ensure this fragile recovery continues, we must take actions that expand opportunity for working families and strengthen our nation’s ability to innovate and compete in a global economy. Families and businesses in Washington state want bipartisan, responsible solutions to our country’s fiscal issues. It’s time for our elected leaders from both sides of the aisle to set aside their ideological agendas, be open to compromise and come together to pass a budget that focuses on our core priorities of creating jobs, strengthening the middle class, growing the economy and responsibly reducing our deficit.” Larsen attended a White House briefing with top economic advisers Tuesday to discuss the economic recovery and ways Congress can act to accelerate job creation.
05.16.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding the 37th effort in the House of Representatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “The 37th time is not the charm. With these stunt votes to nowhere, Republicans have spent millions of taxpayer dollars and wasted far too much time that could have been used to pass job-creating legislation. “With more than 260,000 workers in Washington state looking for jobs, Congress needs to move legislation that will invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity. I am eager to work on legislation that invests in our infrastructure and expands educational opportunities as soon as Republican leaders get serious. “The simple truth is the Affordable Care Act is not going anywhere. It is already saving seniors thousands of dollars on their prescription drugs, has allowed 62,000 young adults in Washington state to stay on their parents’ insurance, and is slowing the growth of health care costs for everyone. Going backwards is just plain backwards.”
05.09.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a Republican bill that would require the United States to put foreign bondholders ahead of payments to Americans in the event that Congress fails to raise the debt ceiling and forces default. “This bill sends a dangerous message around the world and to our own citizens: that the United States is getting ready to default on our debts,” Larsen said. “Under this bill, the United States would be required to pay foreign creditors before meeting its obligations to our troops, veterans, small businesses and doctors who care for our seniors. “The United States already lost its sterling credit rating thanks to Republican posturing on paying the debts we owe. This bill could have much worse consequences. “I remain committed to tackling our budget deficit and bringing our debt to sustainable levels under a balanced approach. The United States must pay the debts it already owes, and Congress must stop its reckless gamesmanship over the debt ceiling.” More information on the bill is available here. What credit rating agencies and other experts have said about debt prioritization: Standard & Poor's global head of sovereign ratings David Beers: “[prioritizing debt payments] would mean a very sudden fiscal shock that the longer it lasted would filter powerfully through the system. Potentially that would be deeply disruptive to the economy." [Reuters, 7/26/2011] Mark Hopkins, senior economist with Moody’s Analytics: “That’s [debt prioritization] like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic.” [Politico Pro, 1/15/13] The Economist: “… Not only would that threaten to send the economy back into recession. It would also deprive doctors, pensioners, contractors and millions of others of money needed to meet their own obligations, setting off a chain reaction of defaults.” [1/12/13]
05.03.2013	A P-8A flies over the Cascade Mountains. Pending the completion of the environmental impact review process, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will be home to all seven Pacific squadrons of the P-8A Poseidons. Photo: U.S. Navy WASHINGTON—The Navy plans to more than double its planned P-8A Poseidon basing at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and will accelerate planned basing of destroyers at Naval Station Everett, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. Larsen was briefed today on the Navy’s strategic laydown plan for 2013-2020 which outlines the changes. “If there was any lingering concern about the future of our naval bases, this news will lay it to rest,” Larsen said. “I have worked for over a decade with local leaders to make the case to the Navy why Northwest Washington is the best place to base these assets. The Navy clearly agrees. “The additional basing of P-8As makes Naval Air Station Whidbey Island the preeminent maritime patrol, electronic warfare and surveillance site in the Pacific. The additional P-8As will bring hundreds of new military families and will create hundreds of local jobs in the next few years as the base constructs new facilities. “The Navy knows that Naval Station Everett is the sailor’s choice. Today’s news means there will be no breaks in basing ships in Everett and the community can count on keeping the Nimitz and her crew.” Pending the completion of the environmental impact review process, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will be home to all seven Pacific squadrons of the P-8A Poseidons. Instead of the planned 24 aircraft, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will now be home to 49 aircraft. The additional aircraft will come from a canceled plan to base three fleet squadrons in Hawaii. Larsen announced in November that the Navy was considering increasing its P-8A presence on Whidbey Island. The Navy will accelerate the basing of destroyers at Naval Station Everett, which will replace three frigates due to be retired in the next few years. The destroyers will now arrive in sync with when the frigates are retired, instead of allowing time to pass between the homeportings. Larsen announced the Navy’s intent to homeport the destroyers at Everett in February 2012. The Navy also confirmed it will keep the U.S.S. Nimitz homeported at Naval Station Everett through at least 2020. The schedule for basing P-8As at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island by fiscal year (FY) is as follows: FY 2015: Two fleet squadrons FY 2016: One additional fleet squadron (three total) FY 2017: Three additional fleet squadrons (six total) FY 2018: One additional fleet squadron (seven total) At Naval Station Everett the destroyers will replace frigates in fiscal years 2015, 2017 and 2019.
05.02.2013	Larsen, DelBene Unveil the Bill to Cut Taxes on Craft Distilleries in Everett EVERETT, Wash.—Craft distilleries will be able to grow and create new jobs if Congress passes a new bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. Larsen is joining Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, a cosponsor of the bill, and Northwest Washington craft distillers to announce the Small Distilleries Fairness Act today in Everett, Washington. “Dozens of new craft distilleries across Washington state are working hard to make our state a leader in this growing industry,” Larsen said. “My bill will help create jobs by allowing small distilleries to invest in their businesses and encouraging new distilleries to open up shop. Because craft distilleries rely on local farms for their ingredients, this bill will boost local farmers too.” “In just a few short years, our local craft distilleries have helped make Washington state nationally renowned for quality spirits in addition to our microbrews and wines,” said DelBene. “This legislation will help our local, small and start-up distilleries by lowering their business costs so they can expand and create jobs.” Washington state is home to more than 60 craft distilleries, making it one of the top producers in the nation. Small distilleries currently pay the same federal tax as large producers, while small breweries and wineries pay a significantly smaller tax rate than their larger competitors. Larsen’s bill will cut federal tax rates by 80 percent for businesses that produce no more than 60,000 proof gallons of distilled spirits a year. “With a reduction in the federal excise tax, my business could finally consider hiring our first employees and achieve reasonable living wages for us,” said John Lundin, owner of Bluewater Organic Distilling in Everett. “We could confidently invest in equipment and expand marketing efforts. We would become more competitive in pricing our products, allowing us to reach further in our distribution. The small-batch craft distilling industry has the potential to achieve a scale proportionate to the craft brewing and winery industries. In recent years, consolidation has left only a handful of large manufacturers in the liquor market, each of which benefit from tremendous economies of scale. A reduction in the federal excise tax would provide steadier footing for our craft industry, and level the playing field in the market.” “The Washington Distillers Guild fully supports Congressman Larsen’s bill,” said Jason Parker, secretary of the Washington Distillers Guild and owner of Copperworks Distilling in Seattle. “By our calculations, these changes reduce the cost of sales on an 80 proof bottle by $1.70. Since that $1.70 also receives distributor markup and fees, retailer markup and fees, and state liquor and liter tax, the total price reduction to the consumer would be about $4.00 per bottle. This reduction will allow craft spirits to be much more price competitive, and make distilleries more likely to succeed.” “Craft distilleries are just starting to flourish in Snohomish County, and Congressman Larsen’s bill would help new distillers open and the industry to thrive here,” said Ryan Hembree, the owner of Skip Rock Distillers in Snohomish and a member of the Snohomish County Craft Beverage Guild. “This bill would go beyond helping just distilleries because craft distilleries like mine use locally farmed ingredients from farmers we know and trust.” Reps. Jim McDermott, WA-07, Denny Heck, WA-10, and Derek Kilmer, WA-06 are also original cosponsors of the bill. The text of the Small Distilleries Fairness Act can be found here: https://go.usa.gov/TVje.
04.30.2013	(CNN) -- Air travelers across the country are breathing a sigh of relief that they might get to their destinations on time after Congress took action to roll back a part of the automatic spending cuts that forced furloughs on air traffic controllers. As someone with a 2,300-mile commute, I understand the frustration that travelers felt as delays tripled to nearly 9,000 by Thursday evening -- I am pleased air traffic controllers are back on the job full-time. I am not relieved, however, that Congress gave the Obama administration authority to end furloughs but has not yet done a single thing to help the many Americans who are suffering the consequences of these cuts. Congress made a Band-Aid fix when sequestration needs a triple-bypass surgery. Read the full article at CNN.com.
04.29.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, ranking member on the House Aviation Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after President Obama nominated Charlotte Mayor Anthony Foxx to be the next Secretary of Transportation: “Last fall at the Democratic Convention I had the pleasure seeing firsthand the results of Mayor Foxx’s commitment to forward-looking transportation policy. Seeing the improvements in the Charlottee Lynx light-rail system, it was clear that he is someone that understands the importance of investing in transportation. I look forward to working with Mayor Foxx to extend that commitment throughout the nation by investing in our roads, bridges, highways, ferry systems and airports. “We all owe great thanks to Secretary LaHood for his service in Congress and his outstanding four years as Secretary of Transportation. I hope he’ll stay involved in the transportation policy field so policymakers can continue to rely on his passion and knowledge about transportation issues.”
04.26.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said the Congressional deal to end furloughs for air traffic controllers “lands somewhere short of a profile in courage” because Congress has failed to address the bigger problems that sequester created. Larsen, the ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, said kids and seniors across the country are being hurt thanks to Congress’s failure to replace sequestration. The text of Larsen’s floor speech, as delivered, follows: Before we start patting each other on the back for this bill, I think it’s important that we recognize that we’re not fixing the bigger problems that sequester has created. Earlier this month, the Bellingham Herald reported that Head Start students in my District will have to begin finding their own way to school as bus service is being cut because of the sequester. Perhaps we now we can ask these four-year-olds to ride their tricycles to class, or, because of this bill, maybe book a flight. Children of military families at NAS Whidbey Island are going to schools where budgets are being cut because of reductions in Impact Aid mandated by sequestration. But we’re not doing anything to help those kids today. We’re not helping seniors in Arlington, Washington who are getting Meals on Wheels no longer delivered to them. And it’s not just my District. Every member of this House represents a District whose kids and seniors are being hurt thanks to our failure to clean up the mess we caused. This lands somewhere short of a profile in courage. This is a band-aid and sequestration needs a triple-bypass surgery. Sequestration is a little bit like the person who kicks a boulder, and then blames the boulder for his broken toe. Congress created this problem. We need to fix it.
04.25.2013	WASHINGTON—Voters facing disenfranchisement because of new voter identification laws in several states will see relief if a bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is enacted. Larsen today reintroduced the America Votes Act of 2013 which would allow voters to sign an sworn written statement attesting to their identity if they do not have the ID required at their polling place. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. “The America Votes Act of 2013 is a straightforward bill that protects Americans’ fundamental right to vote,” Larsen said. “One of my top priorities in Congress is to break down the barriers for all people to fully participate in the economy and democracy. This bill fights back against voter identification laws which are designed to intimidate and disenfranchise legitimate voters.” “Voter ID laws are, at best, a solution in search of a problem,” Larsen added. “There are more recorded instances of exploding toilets and shark attacks than there are of in-person voting fraud. But voter ID laws could enact another barrier for hundreds of thousands of eligible voters. As many as one in four African-American voters, more than one in six Hispanic voters, and about one in 10 eligible voters overall do not possess a current and valid government-issued photo ID.” The bill has the support of 34 other members of Congress: Corrine Brown, FL-05, Earl Blumenauer, OR-03, Barbara Lee, CA-13, Diana DeGette, CO-01, Keith Ellison, MN-05, Raul M. Grijalva, AZ-03, Mike Honda, CA-17, Sam Farr, CA-20, Judy Chu, CA-27, Adam Smith, WA-09, Xavier Becerra, CA-34, Steve Cohen, TN-09, Eleanor Holmes Norton, DC-AL, John Lewis, GA-05, Madeleine Bordallo, GU-AL, Allyson Schwartz, PA-13, Bobby Rush, IL-01, Hank Johnson, GA-04, Ted Deutch, FL-21, Gwen Moore, WI-04, Jackie Speier, CA-14, Stephen F. Lynch, MA-08, André Carson, IN-07, Charles B. Rangel, NY-13, Paul Tonko, NY-20, Wm. Lacy Clay, MO-01, G.K. Butterfield, NC-01, Tony Cardenas, CA-29, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Elijah Cummings, MD-07, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., GA-02, Jim McDermott, WA-07, Jose Serrano, NY-15, and Frederica Wilson, FL-24. Several groups have endorsed the bill, including the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, Demos, the American Association of University Women-Everett, and the Economic Opportunity Institute. “Demos is happy to endorse the America Votes Act,” said Brenda Wright, Vice President for Legal Strategies at Demos. “It’s commonsense legislation to ensure that all eligible persons can cast a ballot that will count.” “The America Votes Act of 2013 is a commonsense bill which would help address the real challenges faced by many at the polls in the wake of increasingly harsh and unnecessary restrictive voter ID laws,” said Tanya Clay House, director of public policy for the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. “Far too many eligible voters do not possess the necessary photo ID; hence are turned away at the polls or made to cast a provisional ballot which is far less likely to be counted. This bill would provide a simple, universal method to ensure voters are afforded the equal opportunity all Americans deserve when they access the polls in order to exercise their fundamental right to vote.” Thirty states are considering legislation on voter ID requirements, including 12 states that are putting forth new voter ID requirements. Several independent analyses of elections have shown that in-person voter fraud is a nonissue. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. Downloads » America Votes Act Bill Text» America Votes Act Fact Sheet
04.23.2013	WASHINGTON—The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) today announced it will establish a hotline for women veterans, mirroring a provision in a bill introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The hotline (1-855-VA-WOMEN) will provide information on health care and benefits specifically tailored to women veterans. “With more women serving on the front lines in our armed forces, it has never been more important that the Department of Veterans Affairs is able to respond to women’s health care needs,” Larsen said. “I am pleased the VA has established this hotline as I recommended in my legislation.” Last month Larsen reintroduced the Women Veterans and Other Health Care Improvements Act, which included a provision to establish such a hotline. Sen. Patty Murray introduced the companion Senate legislation. “This hotline is one part of my plan to expand services specifically to women veterans. I am working to pass this bill so disabled veterans can receive fertility and adoption support and veterans receiving readjustment care can get childcare assistance.” A summary of Larsen’s bill is available here. The hotline will be a resource for women veterans and their families to get more information about the VA’s services and resources available to women veterans. Trained VA employees will be able to provide women veterans with information about benefits available to them. For more information, see the VA’s announcement.
04.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is keeping pressure on the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, leading a letter with Washington state’s two senators and five other members of Congress demanding a written work plan detailing the agency’s plan to complete the investigation into the Tesoro refinery explosion in Anacortes three years ago. Members of the delegation wrote to the board in December 2012 and again earlier this month asking why the investigation on the explosion, which claimed seven lives, has not been completed. Larsen met with several of the victims’ families in Anacortes on April 1, and spoke to the board’s chairman and staff members earlier this month about the incident. Larsen is joined on this letter by Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Reps. Jim McDermott, WA-07, Adam Smith, WA-09, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Denny Heck, WA-10, and Derek Kilmer, WA-06. The full text of the letter follows: April 23, 2013 The Honorable Rafael Moure-Eraso Chairman U.S. Chemical Safety Board 2175 K Street NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20037 Dear Chairman Moure-Eraso: We appreciate your agency’s continued work on addressing the tragedy at the Anacortes Tesoro refinery over three years ago. However, our frustration with the pace of the investigation continues. In conversations with you and with your staff, you have indicated that resources from the finished Chevron investigation will be moved by April 19 to finish the Anacortes investigation within the year. While we hope this is the case, the last three years of delays have not given us confidence that we can expect such a result. Accordingly, we ask that you provide us with a written work plan for how the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) plans to finish the Anacortes investigation. We would like to know the number of staff working on this case, the specific tasks they are undertaking, and the timeline for completion of each of these tasks. This information will be an important indication to the families of those lost in the Anacortes incident and prove to the community that CSB takes the completion of this report seriously. We thank you for your cooperation with our request. We will continue to monitor the progress of your work and urge its swift completion. Sincerely, Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Senator Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Adam Smith U.S. Representative Suzan DelBene U.S. Representative Denny Heck U.S. Representative Derek Kilmer U.S. Representative
04.22.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, issued the following statement today regarding flight delays due to the sequester-caused furloughs of air traffic controllers across the nation: “Air passengers across the country are today joining kids who are being turned away from Head Start and seniors being waitlisted for Meals on Wheels as the latest victims of the unnecessary and reckless impacts of the sequester. “Nobody wants these delays, but the Federal Aviation Administration must manage the airspace safely while the sequester requires air traffic controllers to be furloughed. “There’s a lot finger-pointing going on, but the simple truth is that it is Congress’s job to fix this. Flight delays are just the latest example of how the sequester is damaging the economy and hurting families across the country. Congress needs to replace the entire sequester with a smart and balanced deficit reduction plan.”
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, today hailed the Federal Aviation Administration’s safety certification of the Boeing 787 which will allow the plane to return to commercial service. Larsen issued the following statement: “Now boarding: the Dreamliner’s return to flight. “I applaud the work that Boeing engineers and Federal Aviation Administration safety experts have done to exhaustively address all safety concerns associated with the lithium-ion batteries on the 787. My top priority throughout this investigation has been to make sure travelers can have confidence that the plane on which they are flying is safe. “The 787’s return to flight guarantees thousands of jobs at Boeing and at suppliers throughout Northwest Washington. 787 workers have been justifiably concerned throughout this review process. They can now go to work with renewed confidence in their job-security and pride in their work. “Congress will continue to work with the Federal Aviation Administration, National Transportation Safety Board and Boeing to review the lessons learned through this certification process. “The 787 is a revolutionary aircraft that will set the standard for commercial aviation for decades to come. I look forward to boarding the first of many flights I hope to take on the 787.”
04.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led an effort this week to request $65 million for the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund which is vital to supporting salmon recovery in the Pacific Northwest. In a letter to House appropriators, Larsen and nine other members of the Pacific Northwest delegation made the request to continue supporting the recovery of Pacific salmon which are vital to the region’s economy and ecology. The text of the letter follows: April 16, 2013 The Honorable Frank R. Wolf, Chairman The Honorable Chaka Fattah, Ranking Member Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations H309 Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Representatives Wolf and Fattah: We are writing to thank you for your strong past support of the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund (PCSRF) and ask you to continue your support by providing $65 million for this critical and successful program in FY 2014. PCSRF was established by Congress in Fiscal Year 2000 to reverse the decline of salmon in the region. The goal of PCSRF is to restore, conserve, and protect Pacific salmon and steelhead and their habitats. PCSRF also seeks to maintain the healthy populations necessary for exercising tribal treaty fishing rights and native subsistence fishing. Under PCSRF, the National Marine Fisheries Service provides competitive funding to the states of California, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, Idaho, and Nevada, and tribes of the Pacific Coast region to implement habitat restoration and recovery projects that contribute to the sustainability of the species. PCSRF provides a critical source of stable funding that supports the ability of managers to conduct all phases of restoration and recovery activities, including assessment, planning, implementation, and monitoring. States and tribes have undertaken 10,214 projects, resulting in significant changes in habitat conditions and availability, as well as establishing concrete planning and monitoring programs that support prioritization and tracking for salmon and steelhead population conservation. Significant accomplishments from the program include: 879,194 acres of habitat improved or added for salmonid use 5,336 miles of stream made accessible to spawning populations Marking programs tagging 238,643,775 fish, improving stock identification and supporting more effective fishery management practices These accomplishments contribute to the protection and restoration of these important species of fish that are integral to the economic and ecological well-being of the states where the Pacific salmon thrive. These efforts aid salmon and steelhead populations through PCSRF and are supporting jobs and providing economic benefits to the communities throughout the region. Continued commitment, collaboration and resources are required to achieve the overarching goal of full recovery and sustainability. Thank you again for your consideration of this request. We look forward to working with you to ensure the long-term future of salmon in our region. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress Jim McDermott Member of Congress Earl Blumenauer Member of Congress Adam Smith Member of Congress Kurt Schrader Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Denny Heck Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress
04.18.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act after working with colleagues to strengthen the bill’s privacy protections. Larsen helped build support for key amendments that strengthen privacy protections, oversight and accountability. “Near daily news reports are an important reminder that foreign governments and criminal organizations wage a continuous assault on our networks to steal Americans’ private information,” Larsen said. “This legislation is an appropriate response that will help American companies and the U.S. government work proactively to combat cyber threats and protect personal data. “This is a different and better bill than the version the House passed last year. I only voted for this bill after working with my colleagues to strengthen privacy requirements. I voted for a key amendment that sets civilian agencies as the primary collectors of cyber threat information rather than defense agencies. The bill also requires the government to remove any personally identifiable information from shared data and delete data that is not being used in active investigations. “This legislation will strengthen the United States’ ability to combat cyber threats and protect Americans’ private data. I remain committed to making sure that private information is protected, and any data shared with the government is only used to stop cyber threats.”
04.16.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, filed the following floor statement in recognition of Western Washington University's win in the National Association of Intercollegiate Hockey championship game: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary accomplishment of the Western Washington University Vikings Ice Hockey team, which defended their national title at the National Association of Intercollegiate Hockey Championship on March 17. Under the leadership of Head Coach John Dougan, the Vikings had a regular season record of 23 wins, four ties, four losses and a four-and-one record in the tournament. Western showed great heart and perseverance. After losing the first game of the tournament, they fought their way to the national championship. Led by the strong play of Western goalie and the tournament's most valuable player Tyler Zetting, the Vikings concluded the tournament and defense of their national title with a two-to-one overtime win against top-ranked Le Moyne College. We are proud of this team in Bellingham and across Northwest Washington and we look forward to their future successes on and off the rink.
04.12.2013	WASHINGTON—The U.S. Air Force is upholding its full commitment to the KC-46A refueling tanker being built at Boeing’s Everett facility, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee which oversees the Defense Department acquisition programs. The Committee heard testimony today from top Air Force officials who said the tanker program is “currently executing as planned” and is the “top Air Force acquisition priority.” “I welcome the Air Force’s reaffirmed commitment to move forward on the tanker program,” Larsen said. “Not only is the new tanker a key national strategic asset, it will provide thousands of good-paying jobs in Snohomish County. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will make sure the Air Force follows through on its commitment.” In prepared joint testimony, Air Force Secretary Michael Donley and Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Mark Welsh III said the Air Force plans to conduct initial test flights of the aircraft in 2014 or 2015: “Replacing one-third of the 50 year-old KC-135 aerial refueling tanker fleet with the KC-46A is our top Air Force acquisition priority,” the officials wrote. “The KC-46A program will ensure that our Nation retains a tanker fleet able to provide crucial air refueling capacity worldwide for decades to come. In FY14, we programmed $1.6 billion dollars for the manufacture of four developmental aircraft. The initial flights of the KC-46A test aircraft are scheduled to begin in FY14. The program is currently executing as planned, and we are on track to receive 18 operational aircraft by late FY17.” Separately this week the commander of the Air Force’s Air Mobility Command reiterated the Air Force’s commitment to keeping the tanker program on schedule. Downloads » Air Force Testimony
04.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today spoke out in support of the New Democrat Coalition’s principles for comprehensive immigration reform. Larsen is a Vice-Chair of the Coalition which represents the largest group of moderates in the House of Representatives. “One of my top priorities in Congress is to break down the barriers for all people to fully participate in the economy and democracy based on an understanding of the needs of the increasingly diverse communities in the Second District,” Larsen said. “Immigrants living in Northwest Washington deserve the opportunity to contribute to our country. The future of our economy depends on the development of a pro-growth, efficient and fair immigration system.” Larsen endorsed the coalition’s principles which are based on economic growth, efficiency, fairness and inclusion. The principles are available here. Larsen called for comprehensive immigration reform based on these principles at an event in the U.S. Capitol today. The text of his remarks follows: Larsen Statement on New Democrat Coalition’s Principles for Comprehensive Immigration Reform I’m Congressman Rick Larsen, and I represent the Second District of Washington state. I’m a Vice-Chair of the Coalition, and I am pleased to endorse the New Democrat Coalition’s immigration reform principles of growth, efficiency, fairness, and compassion. I’d like to thank Representatives Castro, Garcia, and Polis for their hard work in drafting these principles. We are a nation of immigrants. Whether we come from places like Norway, like my ancestors in 1878, or from places like Mexico or other places in Latin America, or Korea or the Philippines, like many of the constituents in my District, we are all looking for the same thing then, and now: a good education, opportunity and work. The complex problems of the immigration system impact nearly every person in our country and every part of our economy. When families face the pain of separation, each person’s contributions are held back. When businesses can’t find employees with the right type of skills, profits are lost. And when workers can’t find good-paying jobs, our economy can’t reach its full potential. This is why it will take a comprehensive approach to reform. If done right, immigration reform will ensure all workers are contributing in taxes, create fair guidelines for businesses and workers, and that will be compassionate to everyone who wants to become an American. The New Democrats are uniquely positioned to push reform forward in the House. We are the pragmatic, moderate voice that can bring business together with labor and advocacy groups in order to find the best solutions. I’ve spent a lot of time recently with folks in my corner of the country in Northwest Washington state who told me their personal stories. I’d just like to share one: A year ago, I met with a young student from my district named Baudelina who told me about her life as an undocumented immigrant and her dream of becoming a special-needs teacher. I was thrilled to run into her again last month as she and her brother were applying for deferred action that would allow them to legally continue to live in the country they call home. It’s young people like Baudelina who have moved this debate forward. It’s now up to us in Congress to take comprehensive immigration reform over the finish line. We can do that by following the principles laid out by the New Dems. Downloads » New Democrat Coalition Immigration Principles
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON—The Navy plans to spend more than $127 million on construction projects at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, including $85 million for a hangar and training facilities for the P-8A Poseidon aircraft, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. “My top priority is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “This major investment will create hundreds of jobs on Whidbey Island and secure the future of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island as one of the Navy’s most valuable Pacific assets. I am committed to making sure that Congress approves this funding so that Naval Air Station Whidbey Island continues to grow as a national strategic asset and local economic driver.” The budget proposal includes $85.176 million for the construction of a P-8A aircraft hangar and training facilities, $32.482 million for facility improvements for the expanded EA-18G aircraft presence and $10 million to replace the fuel pier breakwater. The budget proposal is available here. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, which will consider the defense budget proposal in the months ahead. Larsen announced $7 million in funding for the design of the P-8A hangar last month.
04.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, today pressed the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for full funding of the Skagit River General Investigation Study. In their letter to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy, the representatives asked the agency to commit $300,000 to the study this year. “With each flood comes a new threat to the communities of Skagit County,” Larsen and DelBene wrote. “The sense of urgency behind the Skagit G.I. has never diminished. The communities of Skagit Valley are home to some of the most committed and responsive flood fighting organizations and volunteers. The people that provide the communities’ flood response need comprehensive flood solutions. The best way to deliver these needed solutions is the Skagit G.I.” Larsen and DelBene met with county and city leaders in January to discuss the study and plans for long-term flood protection in the Skagit River valley. “We appreciate the hard work of the US Army Corps of Engineers in helping our community fight many floods,” said Skagit County Commissioner Ken Dahlstedt. “Now when we are close to finishing this critical public safety plan, we can’t thank the Corps enough, our Congressional delegation and our many partners who are helping us meet our financial commitments to keep this project moving.” The full text of their letter follows: April 5, 2013 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy: We are writing to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allocate funding to the Skagit General Investigation Study (G.I.) for the remainder of FY 2013 to adequately move the study through the next milestone. We understand capability funding is around $300,000 for the remainder of this fiscal year. On January 11 we met with elected officials from Skagit County, the cities in the Skagit Valley and stakeholder groups. They had one clear and united message: the study must be completed. The Skagit G.I. has been progressing for more than fifteen years, funded primarily by Congressional appropriations each eligible year. With a long history of devastating floods, the communities along the river have been looking to construct flood control projects that will increase safety for those living in the Skagit River valley. With each flood comes a new threat to the communities of Skagit County. The sense of urgency behind the Skagit G.I. has never diminished. The communities of Skagit Valley are home to some of the most committed and responsive flood fighting organizations and volunteers. The people that provide the communities’ flood response need comprehensive flood solutions. The best way to deliver these needed solutions is the Skagit G.I. We applaud the Army Corps of Engineers’ decision to fund the Skagit G.I. with agency discretionary dollars through FY 2012. The Corps’ decision to continue forward progress on the Skagit G.I. sent a clear message that the federal government was committed to holding up its end of the agreement to produce tangible results for the people of the Skagit Valley, and the local communities responded by shoring up Skagit County’s funding with their own cities’ contributions. We ask you to continue your efforts to see that the study is completed on time. On behalf of the residents of Skagit County, we urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allocate capability funding to the Skagit General Investigation Study for the remainder of FY 2013 from agency discretionary funds. Sincerely, Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Suzan DelBene U.S. Representative
04.02.2013	WASHINGTON—On the third anniversary of the deadly 2010 refinery explosion in Anacortes, six members of Washington’s Congressional Delegation are renewing their call for urgent completion of the federal investigation into the incident. In the letter led by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Sen. Patty Murray, the Members, including Sen. Maria Cantwell, Rep. Jim McDermott, WA-07, Rep. Adam Smith, WA-09, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, told the U.S. Chemical Safety Board that three years is too long to wait for the results of the investigation. “On this third anniversary of the tragic fire and explosion in Anacortes, we stand with the families, coworkers and the community of the workers that lost their lives in urging you to complete this investigation as soon as possible,” the members wrote. Larsen spoke with several of the victims’ families in a private meeting in Anacortes yesterday. He reaffirmed his commitment to secure the board’s final report so that actions can be taken to prevent further tragedies. The full text of the letter follows: April 2, 2013 The Honorable Rafael Moure-Eraso Chairman U.S. Chemical Safety Board 2175 K Street NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20037 Dear Chairman Moure-Eraso: Three years ago today, the city of Anacortes was rocked by a fire and explosion at the Tesoro refinery that took the lives of seven workers. Since the 2010 incident, the families and community have struggled to recover from the great losses suffered that day. We remain concerned that the U.S. Chemical Safety Board has not completed its investigation into the Tesoro incident. In a January letter you wrote to us that the Chemical Safety Board’s report has been delayed because the team tasked with investigating the Tesoro incident has been called away to other incidents multiple times. You noted that the Chemical Safety Board has not devoted “a full time investigative team to the Tesoro case since the initial deployment in April 2010.” We appreciate your personal commitment that the final report will be issued this year and urge you to direct your team to give the Tesoro investigation the immediate attention it deserves. In the three years since this horrific incident, the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries and the Tesoro Company have issued their reports on the incident, and legal settlements have been reached between Tesoro and the families of the seven workers who were killed. The families and coworkers of those who died deserve to know that the federal government is doing everything it can to prevent future tragedies from occurring. On this third anniversary of the tragic fire and explosion in Anacortes, we stand with the families, coworkers and the community of the workers that lost their lives in urging you to complete this investigation as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Senator Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Adam Smith U.S. Representative Suzan DelBene U.S. Representative
04.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, the top-ranking Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, will tour key aviation resources throughout Northwest Washington this week. Larsen, who was tapped to serve as the top House Democrat on aviation issues in January, will use the tour to learn about aviation needs in Northwest Washington and highlight the importance of the industry to the region’s economy. “The Pacific Northwest is the aerospace capital of the world,” Larsen said. “I want to make sure that Congress continues to invest in this important part of our economy. I look forward to meeting aerospace workers, pilots and airport administrators to learn more about the challenges and opportunities they face so that I can make sure national aviation policy meets the needs of Northwest Washington.” Larsen will also discuss the impacts of automatic federal spending cuts, known as sequestration, on the aviation industry. The four-day tour of aviation resources will include visits to Paine Field, Arlington Municipal Airport, Skagit Regional Airport, SeaTac Airport, local manufacturers and meetings with general aviation pilots. Larsen recently visited Boeing’s Everett factory, Bellingham International Airport and Anacortes Airport.
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today hailing the White House’s announcement that President Obama will designate the San Juan Islands National Monument: “San Juan Islanders have been shouting from the rooftops for years: protect these lands. Well the President heard our message loud and clear. “The San Juan Islands are among the most beautiful places in the country. These lands are home to diverse wildlife from the Island Marble Butterfly to the Southern Resident Killer Whales, and are an economic engine for Northwest Washington that attract thousands of tourists each year. That’s why I have worked doggedly alongside Islanders for the last four years to push for this permanent protection. “President Obama’s designation of the national monument in the San Juan Islands is the culmination of years of persistence by environmental and business leaders who built consensus and remained resolute in their mission. The national monument designation will protect this resource for residents and visitors today and in the future. “I am proud to have partnered with Sen. Cantwell to introduce our legislation to secure a national conservation area while also urging the White House to act. We also owe thanks to Gov. Inslee, Sen. Murray and Rep. DelBene who fervently supported this strategy. Secretary Salazar deserves credit for making the San Juan Islands a priority. He visited the Islands twice and named them on his list of ‘Crown Jewel’ federal lands that deserve permanent protection.” Larsen has worked with community leaders to formulate a plan for permanent protection since May 2009. He and Sen. Cantwell first introduced the San Juan Islands National Conservation Area Act with the support of Murray and then Rep. Jay Inslee in September 2011. They reintroduced the bill with the support of Murray and DelBene this month. Larsen was an early supporter of the dual-track strategy, urging U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to support a National Monument designation last June. Downloads » 2013.03.SanJuansProclamation.pdf
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON—Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will receive an initial $7 million investment to prepare for the arrival of P-8A Poseidon aircraft at the base, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. The Navy will use the funds to design the new P-8A aircraft hangar and the expansion of the aircraft parking apron. “It’s time to make room, because the P-8As are coming to Whidbey Island,” Larsen said. “This substantial investment shows there is no question that the Navy recognizes Whidbey Island as the right place to base the P-8As.” The Navy notified Congress of its plans to invest in the airfield this week. Larsen has been a determined advocate to bring the P-8As to Whidbey Island. He has pressed Navy officials to maintain their commitment to bring the aircraft to Whidbey Island, including during a visit by Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Jonathan Greenert in August. He hailed the news in November that the Navy is considering doubling the P-8A presence at the base.
03.21.2013	Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, thank you for the opportunity to testify today. At the beginning of each Congress I write a set of goals to guide my and my office’s actions. These goals create a focal point for my office and are a daily reminder of what is important for my District. My number one goal is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. An important part of that foundation is the health of our fisheries, which support about 60,000 jobs in my state. Another important piece of the foundation is the strength of our international commerce, as 40 percent of all jobs in my state depend on trade. I also know we can only grow and prosper if our communities are safe. For these reasons I am requesting that in the Commerce, Justice, and Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, fiscal year 2014 you support programs that protect the natural heritage of my state, promote trade, and protect the safety of families. The Pacific Northwest is home to a variety of important commercial and recreational fisheries, including salmon, groundfish, crab, and rockfish. Both the commercial fishing and outdoor recreation industries account for 60,000 jobs and nearly $4.5 billion in economic activity in my state alone, according to the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. Many of our salmon runs are endangered because of years of overfishing, development, and a lack of management tools. That puts our economy in jeopardy too. That is why I am asking the Committee to fund the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund at $65 million for Fiscal Year 2014. I appreciate the Committee’s support for this program in the past. Your support has resulted in impressive accomplishments. Salmon runs are improving. Tribes, states, local governments, and stakeholders are coordinating their efforts to ensure that they continue to improve. Another critical piece of funding for salmon improvements is the Mitchell Act, which funds hatchery improvements and has been the key to reforms in the hatchery program. The salmon and steelhead produced from these hatcheries are an economic engine for small communities that rely on recreational fishing. In short, hatchery reform brought about through funding for the Mitchell Act has kept people fishing. That’s welcome news in for Northwest communities. In addition to protecting our fisheries, we must also protect the programs in this bill that grow our exports. Forty percent of all jobs in Washington state are linked to foreign trade. More than 8,500 Washington state companies exported their products in 2010. Ninety-one percent of those were small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than 500 employees. When we export our products around the world, we create jobs here at home. I urge this Committee to including full funding for the International Trade Administration (ITA), which seeks to develop the export potential of U.S. firms and improve the trade performance of U.S. industry. I also urge full support for the U.S. Commercial Service, which helps inexperienced firms export their products overseas. The Commercial Service facilitated $54 billion in U.S. exports in 2011, helping 18,500 companies nationwide, including 317 companies Washington state. As we work to grow the economy, we must also make sure we are making investments in the safety of our communities. Safe communities allow children and families to thrive and contribute to our society. That is why I ask you to fully fund the Justice Assistance Grants, COPS Grants, and the Regional Information Sharing System. Law enforcement officials in my District use this funding to keep cops on the street and criminals in check. Commander Pat Slack, of the Snohomish Regional Drug and Gang Task Force, relies on the $200,000 he gets in JAG funding for nearly half of his Task Force’s operations. He told me that further funding cuts could cost Snohomish County the criminal prosecutor who handles all federal prosecutions involving drugs and guns that arise in the county. The cities of Mount Vernon, Burlington, and Everett in my district have used COPS grants to hire additional officers in the last few years, resulting in five additional police officers protecting communities in Northwest Washington. The Regional Information Sharing System, which helps law enforcement prevent overlapping operations and keeps officers safe, received a 40 percent funding cut in fiscal year 2012. This valuable system’s resources are increasingly stretched, even as demand for its services continues to increase. Everett Police Chief Kathy Atwood, who serves on the board of the Western States Information Network of RISS, says her department relies heavily on the RISSafe database to keep officers safe on the job. Use of RISSafe allows a city police department to find out about a federal undercover agent their operation could endanger, and prevents state and local law enforcement from sending armed agents into the same drug distribution house at the same time. Chief Atwood says that knowing how and when other law enforcement agencies are working nearby is, quote “like the 911 system. It’s something we just simply could not do without.” Funding cuts have already cost critical RISS personnel including Washington state’s Crime Analyst. I urge this committee to fully fund RISS, and consider restoring its fiscal year 2011 funding level of $45 million. With that Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, I appreciate the opportunity to testify today and I encourage the Committee to invest in what I see as the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity.
03.20.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for the Democratic budget proposal and announced his intention to vote no on the Republican budget proposal tomorrow. “My top priority in Congress is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. We need to start with a budget that makes investments in transportation, education and innovation that let our economy grow. “The Democratic plan uses a balanced approach to reach a balanced budget and create jobs. By cutting spending, slowing the rate of spending growth, and generating new revenue, the budget sets the United States on a path to job creation and long-term fiscal health. “The Democratic budget replaces the dangerous automatic spending cuts known as the sequester with a balanced deficit reduction plan. Northwest Washington is already feeling the consequences of the sequester. Teachers in Everett, Oak Harbor and Bellingham are soon going to have larger classes and fewer textbooks. Domestic violence shelters will not have the resources they need to help victims of domestic abuse. Seniors in Snohomish County will face longer waiting lists for Meals on Wheels. “The Republican budget is sequester on steroids. Deep and arbitrary cuts that are already hurting the middle class in Northwest Washington would multiply under the Republican plan, slashing the investments that will rebuild the middle class. “Democrats have put forward a serious plan that meets our fiscal challenge and will grow the economy by creating jobs. Republicans have put forward their tired ideology that Americans have soundly rejected in election after election.”
03.15.2013	WASHINGTON—More than 95 acres of Samish Tribal lands in Skagit and San Juan counties will receive permanent protection if Congress passes a bill introduced by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today. The Samish Indian Nation Homelands Act of 2013 would put the land, currently owned by the Samish Tribe, into federal trust for the tribe. Larsen introduced a version of the bill in 2012, but the House of Representatives did not take action on the bill. “The permanent protection of this property will help the Samish Tribe continue to build a solid foundation for economic growth, preserve vital community services, and give tribal members certainty about the Tribe’s future,” Larsen said. “I look forward to working with the Samish Tribe and other local leaders to pass this bill to protect vital services and economic centers for the Samish Tribe.” The legislation has been endorsed by local leaders including the City of Anacortes Mayor and City Council, the San Juan County Council and the Skagit County Board of Commissioners. “The Samish Indian Nation has worked hard to ensure that the future is bright for its people, including job opportunities for tribal members as well as for our neighboring communities,” said Samish Indian Nation Chairman Tom Wooten. “Congressman Larsen has been a true partner in working with the Tribe to make this goal a reality. We deeply appreciate his reintroduction of the Samish Indian Nation Homelands Act, and we are committed to working with him and Congress to see it enacted into law in the 113th Congress. The Tribe also appreciates and acknowledges all our partners: the City of Anacortes, Skagit County, San Juan County, and the state of Washington for their collaboration on this bill and for their continuing friendship and collaboration. Together we can revitalize the area in a way that allows for all our next seven generations to grow and prosper.” The legislation would take 95 acres of Samish-owned land on five parcels and place them in federal trust to be used by the tribe for community and economic purposes. Those parcels include a Head Start and Early Learning Center and the tribal administration complex in Anacortes, as well as agricultural land and salmon habitat in Skagit County. The language of the bill prohibits gaming on the land once it is taken into trust. It does not affect the rights of other tribes, including hunting and fishing on any lands. A map of the affected land is available here. “The City of Anacortes and the Samish Indian Nation have a long history of partnering on issues affecting both governing bodies,” said Anacortes Mayor Dean Maxwell. “The City of Anacortes supports the Samish Indian Nation Homeland Act of 2013, which allows the Samish Indian Nation to convert five parcels into non-gaming trust status for housing, government and support services for the tribe.” Downloads » 2013.03.15.SamishBill.pdf
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after House Republicans released their budget proposal. The House of Representatives will debate the budget proposals next week. “My top priority in Congress is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest. We need to start with a budget that recognizes the obligation to make investments in transportation, education and innovation that let our economy grow. “Cutting the deficit is important, which is why I am one of a small group of members from both parties to have voted for a bold and balanced plan that includes spending cuts, new revenues and entitlement reforms that protect guaranteed benefits for today’s seniors and future retirees. The only way to control the deficit in the long term is by embracing this balanced approach. “I don’t understand why Republicans are once again pressing forward with their plan to turn Medicare into voucher-care, give huge new tax breaks to the richest few, and let American roads crumble when in election after election Americans have rejected this ideological approach to government. It is time for House Republicans reject this plan and work with Democrats on a balanced solution.”
03.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the FAA approved Boeing’s certification plan for the 787 battery system. Larsen is the top Democrat on the Aviation Subcommitee. “This is a major step to getting the 787 safely back in the air. I am confident the FAA and Boeing will continue working closely to do all that is necessary to show the planes are safe and can return to service.”
03.11.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following the crash of an EA-6B Prowler in Eastern Washington. The Prowler was based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. “The thoughts and prayers of Northwest Washington are with the families of the aircrew who lost their lives today. I grieve with Whidbey Island for the loss of three of our own. This tragic crash is a painful reminder of the dangerous work that members of the armed services perform every day in service to our nation. I stand ready to give my full support to NAS Whidbey Island and the local Navy community as they investigate this accident and mourn these losses.”
03.07.2013	NW Washington delegation continues ‘dual-track approach’ to conserve land with legislation or executive action Legislation would designate nearly 1,000 acres of federally owned land a National Conservation Area WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Northwest Washington Congressional delegation introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate and House to designate nearly 1,000 acres of federally owned land on the San Juan Islands a National Conservation Area. This designation would preserve the land and ensure public access for future generations. U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-01) introduced this legislation as one option of a ‘dual-track approach’ to protect the land. The delegation has also voiced support for President Obama declaring the land a Presidential National Monument using his authority from Congress under the Antiquities Act of 1906. In a January 2013 letter, the delegation urged President Obama to make such a designation prior to the departure of Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar later this year. Cantwell, Murray and Larsen first introduced this legislation in September 2011. “More and more people visit this pristine area each year, and we need a long-term management plan in place to protect it,” said Cantwell. “Whether through this legislation or a presidential designation, we must preserve these cherished federal lands on the San Juan Islands. This dual-track approach is the best way to ensure we answer the local community’s call to preserve this land for future generations to enjoy.” “Permanent, federal protection for these areas in the San Juan Islands will ensure that Washingtonians for generations to come can enjoy one of our state’s greatest natural treasures,” said U.S. Senator Patty Murray. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in co-sponsoring this legislation. Protection of these lands is an important effort and I continue to urge the Obama Administration to designate these cherished lands as a National Monument.” “The San Juan Islands must be preserved for residents and visitors today and in the future,” Larsen said. “Whether through action by Congress or the President, the federal government should answer Islanders’ calls to permanently protect these lands for the enjoyment by all. Senator Cantwell, Senator Murray, Representative DelBene and I will continue our dogged support on behalf of all the environmental, business and tribal leaders throughout Northwest Washington who want to see the dream of permanent protection made into a reality.” “These publicly owned lands in the San Juan Islands contain unique and beautiful open spaces that are cherished by the surrounding communities and the thousands of visitors they attract every year,” said DelBene. “I’m proud to join Senators Murray, Cantwell and Congressman Larsen to conserve these scenic and recreational treasures for generations to come.” The citizen-driven effort to preserve this land has generated widespread, passionate support from the community. In February 2012, Cantwell, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and members of the community held a public meeting in Anacortes to discuss federal efforts to preserve the land. In July 2011, Cantwell and Larsen held a community listening session in Friday Harbor to hear feedback on the effort to create a National Conservation Area. In April 2011, Salazar held a meeting in Washington state with state and local leaders to discuss San Juan Islands conservation efforts. Salazar has led the Administration’s efforts on conserving the federally owned land in the San Juan Islands. Permanent protection of the approximately 1,000 acres of federally owned land would ensure it remains in its current state and publicly accessible, despite higher use. The federally owned land includes more than 60 locations that range from pine forests to lighthouses and is visited by more than 70,000 people every year.
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to remove the air traffic control tower at Paine Field from a list of possible tower closures. Larsen, the top Democrat on the House Aviation Subcommittee, wrote FAA Administrator Michael Huerta that the use of Paine Field by Boeing and Aviation Technical Services makes it a critical economic asset of national significance. The text of Larsen’s letter to Huerta is below: March 6, 2013 The Honorable Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta: I am concerned about the potential closure of the air traffic control tower at Paine Field in Everett, Washington. While I understand that the air traffic control tower at Paine Field does not fall into the first round of closures, notices from FAA have indicated that it could be slated to close this year. Both in your February 27, 2013, testimony before the House Aviation Subcommittee and in your letter dated March 5, 2013, to airports participating in the FAA Contract Tower program, you indicated that your agency is working to “identify any locations where the national interest would be adversely affected by tower closure.” I believe that Paine Field fits this criteria. The national aerospace economy is concentrated in the Northwest, and Paine Field plays an important role at the center of that economy. While Paine Field supports a vibrant General Aviation operation, it also serves as the platform for a huge portion of the region’s economy. As the home to the largest facility for The Boeing Company—the only air transport manufacturer in the United States and the nation’s largest exporter—Paine Field serves as an important national asset. Aviation Technical Services (ATS) is also located at Paine Field, and is the largest third-party aircraft maintenance, repair, and overhaul operation in North America. Much of their business with large aircraft necessitates a control tower in order to ensure the highest level of safety. The production, transportation and repair of large airplanes need a fully operating air traffic control tower. Closure of the air traffic control tower at Paine Field would significantly limit Paine Field’s ability to support the cornerstone of the Pacific Northwest aviation economy and would hurt the national economy by impacting the operations of the country’s largest exporter. I appreciate your continued leadership during difficult budget circumstances, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure that our aviation system remains the safest and most efficient in the world. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Ranking Member Subcommittee on Aviation
03.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against the continuing resolution that will keep in place the damaging automatic spending cuts known as sequestration. “Congress had an opportunity to restore sanity to the federal budget. We failed. The sequester’s automatic and untargeted spending cuts are already impacting families in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “At the very least, Congress needs to grant federal agencies discretion to apply the spending cuts in a way that limits the impacts on Americans and preserves vital services.” Larsen released a report last week detailing the consequences of the sequester in Northwest Washington. “Nothing in this bill prevents a cut of 10,000 meals for seniors in Snohomish County. Nothing in this bill keeps air traffic controllers on the job fulltime, keeping our airways safe and our aviation economy growing. Nothing in this bill protects the thousands of children in Marysville, La Conner and Bellingham from devastating cuts to their school budgets. “I want Congress to move forward with a balanced approach that cuts the deficit through smart spending cuts, slowing the growth of spending, and new revenue. Short of that, Congress must stop the sequester’s reckless, untargeted approach to cutting and grant the Administration authority to manage sequester cuts in a rational manner.”
03.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Veterans who cannot conceive children because of injuries they sustained in military service will be able to get advanced fertility treatments and adoption assistance if Congress passes a bipartisan bill introduced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The Women Veterans and Other Health Care Improvements Act of 2013 would give veterans with service-connected disabilities access to in vitro fertilization and adoption assistance. It would also expand services specifically designed for the care of women veterans. “Disabled veterans have already paid too high a price in service to our nation. They should not have to pay a higher cost to start a family,” Larsen said. “Too many veterans are returning home with injuries that make conceiving children impossible without assistance. Veterans deserve access to advanced fertility treatment and adoption assistance so they can achieve their dreams of starting families.” The Department of Defense already covers in vitro fertilization for active duty service members and retirees, but the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) does not provide the coverage for veterans. “This bill also improves VA services for women veterans,” Larsen added. “As more women will be serving in direct combat roles, these improvements are all the more necessary to make sure the VA is meeting the needs of all our veterans.” Passage of this bill is a top priority for the Paralyzed Veterans of America. “We urge all veterans and this Congress to support this piece of legislation and to move it quickly through the legislative process and to the President’s desk,” said Ernie Butler, Executive Director of the Northwest Chapter of Paralyzed Veterans of America. “For too long women veterans and catastrophically injured veterans have had to go outside the VA’s health system in order to have children via in vitro practices routinely available, and do so at their own expense.” The Senate unanimously approved a version of this bill authored by Sen. Patty Murray last year, but the House did not act on the companion legislation that Larsen had introduced before the end of the 112th Congress. Murray reintroduced the Senate version of the bill earlier this year. Larsen and Murray met with paralyzed veterans and their families in Seattle last year to discuss how the bill would impact veterans. A summary of the bill is available here. A section-by-section breakdown of the bill is available here. The text of the bill is available here. The following members are original cosponsors of the House bill: Suzanne Bonamici, OR-01, Julia Brownley, CA-26, Robert Brady, PA-01, Judy Chu, CA-27, John Conyers, MI-13, Susan Davis, CA-53, Suzan DelBene, WA-01, Colleen Hanabusa, HI-01, Denny Heck, WA-10, Betty McCollum, MN-04, Grace Napolitano, CA-32, Eleanor Holmes Norton, DC, Louise Slaughter, NY-25, Steve Stivers, OH-15, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz, FL-23. Downloads » The Women Veterans and Other Health Care Improvements Act of 2013» Women Veterans Act Summary» Women Veterans Act Section by Section Summary
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation that would protect the Green Mountain Lookout in Glacier Peak Wilderness. The legislation comes after a group based out of Montana filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) for using a helicopter and machinery to repair Green Mountain lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness within the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest. As a result, the U.S. District Court ordered the USFS to remove the lookout. The lookout is an important part of the region, and reflects a unique and vanishing part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. It is one of few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and only one of six such lookouts within the Wilderness area. It was also an early warning station during World War II to alert citizens to possible aerial invasion. The Washington State Trust for Historic Preservation named it one of the ten most endangered buildings last year, before the court made its decision. “Green Mountain Lookout is an important part of our state’s history, and is cherished by the local community,” Senator Murray said. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with Senator Cantwell and Representatives DelBene and Larsen to preserve the lookout for future generations and maintain access to this popular hiking attraction in the Glacier Peak Wilderness.” “The Green Mountain Fire Lookout is a treasured local landmark, an important reminder of Pacific Northwest history, and a lasting testament to the hard work of the Civilian Conservation Corps,” Senator Cantwell said. “This legislation would help preserve this historic lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness for future generations to enjoy. I look forward to working with Senator Murray and Representatives Larsen and DelBene to keep the historic Green Mountain Fire Lookout open to the public.” “The Green Mountain Lookout is an iconic structure within the Glacier Park Wilderness that represents a significant piece of the Pacific Northwest’s history and it deserves to be protected for outdoor enthusiasts to enjoy today and in the years to come,” Congresswoman DelBene said. “I am honored to work with Senators Murray and Cantwell, and Congressman Larsen to protect this special and historic structure.” “The message of this bill is simple: The Green Mountain Lookout stays on Green Mountain,” Congressman Larsen said. “I believe strongly in preserving our environment, and I have fought hard to protect wilderness areas in Wild Sky, the Skagit River Valley and in the San Juans. The extreme view of a small minority in this matter fails to take into account the spirit of the law. I look forward to working with Rep. DelBene and Sens. Murray and Cantwell to pass this bill so that visitors to Glacier Peak Wilderness will long be able to enjoy the Green Mountain Lookout.” Last year, the Senators and Rep. Larsen joined in sending a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, asking the U.S. Department of Agriculture to use all legal means to protect the Green Mountain Lookout in Glacier Peak Wilderness.
02.28.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cheered the passage of the comprehensive version of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act. The House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Senate bill which expands protections for immigrant, LGBT and Native American communities after defeating an amendment that would have stripped those expansions. “Domestic violence does not discriminate, and with this bill, domestic violence protection will no longer discriminate,” Larsen said. “The expanded protections for immigrants, the LGBT community and Native Americans will give law enforcement officers more resources to go after perpetrators of domestic violence, and help prevent more women from becoming victims. “Over nearly two decades the Violence Against Women Act has saved the lives of thousands of women and has made sure that domestic abusers meet justice,” Larsen said. “Over the last year I met with dozens of advocates for domestic violence victims in Tulalip, Oak Harbor, Mount Vernon, Lynnwood and Bellingham. They told me in clear terms that women across Northwest Washington need this bill to get the protections they deserve.” Larsen was an original cosponsor of the House version of the comprehensive Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. Larsen urged his colleagues to support the bill in a floor speech today: Thank you Madam Speaker. I rise today in support of the bipartisan Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act that we vote on today. We wouldn’t be here today without the courage of victims from all of our communities—women and men, rich and poor, immigrant, Native American, folks from the LGBT community, all of those who spoke out about their experiences. Domestic violence does not discriminate. And with this bill, domestic violence protection will no longer discriminate. This bill improves protections for immigrants, for Native Americans, and for members of the LGBT community. In my district, Tulalip Tribes Vice Chair Deborah Parker, has explained why these protections are so critical. She told me, “For far too long Native American women have lacked serious protections on our reservations.” This bill will make it easier for them to seek justice, and it also includes important amendments to improve enforcement of the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act, a law that I sponsored in 2006. Those amendments strengthen protections Congress put in place for immigrant women like Anastasia King, who was murdered in my district by her husband in 2000. So I urge my colleagues to oppose the House VAWA substitute, and to pass S.47.
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON—Aviation Subcommittee Ranking Member Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, delivered the following statement at the opening of the Subcommittee’s hearing on the Federal Aviation Administration: Thank you, Chairman LoBiondo, for calling today’s hearing on implementing the FAA reauthorization bill. Mr. Chairman, we had an excellent cooperative relationship working together last Congress on the Coast Guard Subcommittee. I very much look forward to continuing that relationship in our current roles as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Aviation Subcommittee. At the outset, I should point out that I did not vote for the FAA reauthorization bill, because it amended the Railway Labor Act in a way that I believe will harm the right of workers to organize and collectively bargain. That said, the FAA bill did provide much-needed, stable, long-term funding for federal airport infrastructure grants. Additionally, the bill provided new policy direction for NextGen air traffic control modernization, and established a process for safely integrating new technologies like Unmanned Aircraft Systems into the national airspace system. The FAA bill also included several provisions to ensure that the agency is adequately staffed and that its workforce is adequately trained. Additionally, I want to praise Administrator Huerta and his staff for their efforts to extend occupational safety and health protections to flight attendants in their high-altitude workplace, as mandated by the FAA bill. Democrats on this Committee fought to include that mandate in the final conference report, and I was pleased that the FAA published a proposed policy statement last December and solicited public comments. I hope a final policy statement will be adopted in short order, and I look forward to hearing from Administrator Huerta on where we stand now in extending long-overdue legal protections to tens of thousands of flight attendants. I look forward to receiving a status report on how all these important provisions are being implemented. Mr. Chairman, it does concern me that the bill’s successful implementation is about to be derailed due to looming spending cuts. At its heart, the reauthorization bill is a funding bill – a multi-year authorization of funding for the agency. Yet, we are only a few days away from budget sequestration, which will mean several-hundred-million-dollars in automatic cut for this year below the funding levels Congress authorized in the FAA bill—and there will be even larger cuts going forward. Absent the authorized funding levels, the FAA’s priority in the next few years may not be implementing the FAA bill, but managing a self-inflicted budgetary crisis while attempting to safely downsize the U.S. aviation system. Long-term investments in new technologies that Congress sought to advance in the FAA bill may be postponed and the delivery of some critical NextGen systems could be delayed for years to come. According to the FAA, sequestration will result in the furlough of a large number of air traffic controllers, technicians, and aviation safety employees that will cause travel delays and disruptions. Service at over 200 air traffic control towers could be eliminated. These furloughs could also impact aviation manufacturers who need FAA safety certifications for new NextGen technologies. Aviation manufacturing is a significant driver of the economy in Washington state, so I am particularly concerned about the sequestration’s effect on this part of the industry. The FAA’s greatest asset is its people. The FAA’s dedicated and professional workforce operates the largest, most complex and safest aviation system in the world. However, one-third of the FAA’s total workforce will be retirement-eligible in 2014. The possibility of furloughs, accompanied by pay and benefit cuts, could cause many devoted FAA veterans to throw up their hands and say “I’m done!” Administrator Huerta, as you consider managing the agency with increasingly scarce budgetary resources, I would urge you to prioritize investment in your people. The FAA must continue to invest in the training, development, recruitment and retention of a world class 21st Century workforce. Thank you, and I look forward to hearing from our witness.
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Suzan DelBene (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. The legislation will protect the free-flowing character of Illabot Creek, an important habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, while maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing. “Protecting the Illabot Creek is an important step toward preserving what makes Washington state so unique,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Washingtonians take great pride in our state’s tremendous natural resources and wildlife, and I applaud the volunteers who have worked tirelessly to protect the creek for future generations. I’m proud to join with Senator Cantwell and Representatives DelBene and Larsen to introduce this important legislation.” “I’m proud to partner with Senator Murray, Congresswoman DelBene, and Congressman Larsen to protect this important wildlife habitat and incredible site for outdoor recreation,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “Illabot Creek is a key Skagit River tributary and is home to salmon and bald eagles, two iconic species in the Pacific Northwest. This bill will help protect Illabot Creek’s fish and wildlife habitat while ensuring it remains a great place for fishing and hunting for generations to come.” “Illabot Creek is a beautiful stretch of critical habitat that deserves to be protected,” said Congresswoman Suzan DelBene. “Designating the Illabot as a Wild and Scenic River ensures the preservation of significant wild lands that are home to several threatened species. It also guarantees that people will continue to enjoy this area for hunting, fishing and other recreation for generations.” “Illabot Creek is a beautiful part of our community and an integral part of the Skagit Valley ecosystem,” said Congressman Rick Larsen. “By preserving this habitat we are ensuring that Skagit County residents and visitors will be able to continue hunting, fishing and hiking in the region. When we support vital salmon spawning waters like this, we protect the fishing industry jobs that depend on healthy fish populations. I was proud to have passed this bill in the House last year and I look forward to working with Rep. DelBene and Sens. Murray and Cantwell to get this bill signed into law.” Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. Illabot Creek provides crucial spawning habitat for wild Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout, all threatened species, and is home to numerous other species including bald eagles that roost along the creek. The Skagit River watershed supports one of the largest concentrations of wintering bald eagles in the lower 48 states. Because of the abundance of salmon and the high quality of habitat, Illabot Creek is the center of foraging activity and supports two communal night roosts. One roost area is within the existing Skagit Wild and Scenic River corridor. The second is within the proposed Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River designation. This abundance of bald eagles is a major attraction in Skagit County, and supports tourist activity, including the Upper Skagit Bald Eagle Festival. The National Wild and Scenic Rivers System was created by Congress in 1968 to preserve certain rivers of outstanding value in a free-flowing condition for future generations. The Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River Act will prohibit dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of the river and establish a protected corridor extending one-quarter mile from the ordinary high-water mark on both sides of the river. Designating Illabot Creek as a National Wild and Scenic River will complement other local habitat protection and salmon and trout recovery efforts that are underway in the Skagit basin. According to The Nature Conservancy, Illabot Creek and the surrounding area are home to the following species: Chinook salmon, Chum salmon, Coho salmon, Pink salmon, Sockeye salmon, Steelhead trout, Bull trout, Cutthroat trout, Marten, Roosevelt elk, Western toad, Bald eagle, Band-tailed pigeon, Blue grouse, Kestrel, Marbled murrelet, Northern spotted owl, Olive-sided flycatcher, Osprey, Pacific slope flycatcher, Peregrine falcon, Rufous hummingbird, Townsend’s warbler, Western wood peewee, and the Willow flycatcher.
02.25.2013	WASHINGTON—A staff report from the office of Rep. Rick Larsen released today details the severe consequences in Northwest Washington if automatic federal spending kick in on March 1. Larsen directed his staff to compile the report to illustrate the direct consequences of automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, on local communities. The report is available here. “These automatic spending cuts are not just a Washington, DC budget gimmick. These indiscriminate cuts will have real and immediate impacts on families and workers in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “The sequester must be replaced with a balanced plan that cuts the deficit while preserving vital investments that create jobs and expand the economy.” The automatic spending cuts totaling $85 billion this year will take effect unless Congress replaces the sequester with an alternate plan that cuts the deficit by the same or greater amount. “Thousands of families across Northwest Washington will feel the immediate impacts of Congress’s inability to do its job if these cuts are allowed to move forward. I am committed to finding a better plan that cuts the deficit and invests in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest.” The full report is available here: /sites/larsen.house.gov/files/2013.02.Sequestration2ndDistrictReport.pdf Downloads » 2013.02.Sequestration2ndDistrictReport.pdf
02.15.2013	WASHINGTON—Following President Obama’s call for election reform in his State of the Union Address, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is asking the President to support efforts to combat discriminatory impacts of voter ID laws. Larsen wrote the President today asking for his support of the America Votes Act, which would allow a voter that does not have required identification to sign a sworn statement affirming his or her identity. Larsen introduced the America Votes Act last year with the support of 43 of his colleagues, and intends to reintroduce the bill soon. More information on the bill is available here. Larsen’s letter to the President follows: February 15, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington DC 20500 Mr. President: Thank you for addressing the essential issue of election reform in your the State of the Union Address. As an advocate for voting rights, I am glad that you have continued to highlight voter access as a priority of your administration. To combat the discriminatory impacts of voter ID laws, I introduced the America Votes Act of 2012, which had 43 cosponsors. This legislation allows voters who arrive at the polls without required identification to sign a sworn statement affirming their identity, just as absentee voters do with their ballots. These voters can then submit a standard—not provisional—ballot. This legislation preserves voting rights and makes sure every vote counts. I will reintroduce this legislation this year. Please consider this legislation in your efforts to improve our nation’s elections. Voter ID laws, which disproportionately impact poor, elderly, minority, and young voters, have continued to play a role in voter suppression across the nation. Though many voter ID laws were struck down or postponed by the courts, they still caused problems in the 2012 elections. For example in Pennsylvania, implementation of the voter ID law was postponed by a state court until after the 2012 election. But poll workers were still permitted to ask for IDs, even though voters were not required to present them. The ensuing confusion resulted in voters being turned away from the polls, or unlawfully directed to vote using provisional ballots. Other states including Texas, Mississippi, and Alabama continue to push for clearance for their voter ID laws under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Minority, elderly, and low-income voters who are disproportionately impacted by voter ID laws already face a multitude of barriers to voting. As the Supreme Court hears a challenge to this historic law, it is increasingly important that we take a stand to ensure voter ID laws do not exacerbate suppression efforts against voters who hold their rights dear. Our nation must continue to move forward, out of our dark history of voter suppression and toward a future that allows citizens to exercise the cherished right to cast their vote. As you said in your address, “this country only works when we accept certain obligations to one another…that our rights are wrapped up in the rights of others.” I look forward to working with you to end disenfranchisement caused by these discriminatory voter ID laws. Sincerely, Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Washington State, 2nd District CC: Robert Bauer, Presidential Commission on Election Administration CC: Benjamin Ginsberg, Presidential Commission on Election Administration
02.14.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, ranking member of the House Aviation Subcommittee, released the following statement today following the announcement that American Airlines and US Airways plan to merge: “The proposed merger of American Airlines and US Airways may hold significant implications for travelers. Shareholder value may be in the interests of the airlines as companies, but choice and quality are in the interests of the consumer. I expect that the Department of Justice in its review of the proposed merger will consider what this consolidation means for consumer choice, cost to consumers, and the impact on the airlines’ work forces.”
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, tonight commended President Obama’s focus on jobs and economic growth in his State of the Union Address and called for Congress to turn immediately to a jobs agenda. “My top priority is to invest in the foundation of long-term economic growth that creates jobs and opportunity in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “Tonight the President laid out a clear vision for economic growth that starts with creating more jobs today and building the platform for greater economic growth in the future. “Congress has been standing in the way for way too long. We were elected to work together to fix the economy and find a real solution to our fiscal problem. The political games of sequesters and fiscal cliffs wreak havoc on the economy, and the middle class suffers the consequences. I am committed to working with Republicans and Democrats in the center to find a big and bold plan that slashes our deficit and preserves vital job-creating investments. “In Northwest Washington we know what it takes to make it in America. Workers at our manufacturers make the best products that we sell all around the world. Our young people are making it in America when they have the opportunity to go to college. And immigrants from all over come to make it in Washington state, helping grow our economy and making better lives for their families. “Economic growth depends in part on fixing our broken immigration system. President Obama laid out a balanced plan for comprehensive immigration reform that will secure our borders while treating immigrants fairly and with respect. Immigration reform must include the DREAM Act so that the children of undocumented immigrants I have met throughout Northwest Washington are able to become citizens of the only country they know as home. “I’m ready to get to work.”
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON—Following the Senate’s passage of a strong new Violence Against Women Act, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Republican leaders to let the House of Representatives consider and pass the bill. Larsen is an original cosponsor of the House version of the bill, H.R. 11. “Over nearly two decades the Violence Against Women Act has saved thousands of women’s lives and has made sure that domestic abusers meet justice,” Larsen said. “The House needs to pass this bill right away to give law enforcement officers and community leaders the resources they need to stop domestic violence and sexual assault.” The Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 includes significant improvements that will allow law enforcement to counteract domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. The bill also expands protections for Native women, immigrants and LGBT victims. Tulalip Tribes Vice Chairwoman Deborah Parker praised the Senate passage. Parker advocated passage of the bill in Washington, DC last year. “As a Native American sister, mother, aunt, daughter, I know too painfully how important the Violence Against Women Act is,” Parker said. “For far too long Native American women have lacked serious protections on our reservations. The Violence Against Women Act passed by the Senate today makes sure that Native American women get the resources and defenses they deserve. I urge the House of Representatives to uphold the Constitution and pass this important bill right away.” Larsen held a series of roundtables on domestic violence through the 2nd District and spoke out on the House floor about the need for a strong Violence Against Women Act last year. “Over the last year I met with dozens of advocates for domestic violence victims in Tulalip, Oak Harbor, Mount Vernon, Lynnwood and Bellingham,” Larsen said. “The message I got was clear: we need to pass an update to VAWA that includes protections for vulnerable tribal, LGBT, immigrant and other marginalized communities. Deborah Parker explained in clear terms why the status quo leaves Native women vulnerable. In Bellingham I learned how immigrant women too often must risk their legal residency if they speak out against their abusers. “The House has an opportunity to help victims and stop domestic violence before it happens. We should act now.” The Senate’s passage of the bill was also praised by Domestic Violence Services of Snohomish County: “We cannot begin to stress the importance of the Violence Against Women Act,” said Vicci Hilty, Executive Director of Domestic Violence Services of Snohomish County. “The Violence Against Women Act keeps our communities safe. Domestic violence and sexual assault affect every one of us in our communities.” A fact sheet about the bill is available here. Downloads » VAWA.pdf
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today following the news that President Obama will nominate Sally Jewell to serve as U.S. Secretary of the Interior. “Sally is an outdoor enthusiast and a skilled business person, making her a smart choice to lead the Interior Department,” Larsen said. “As CEO of REI, Sally has been a key voice in promoting the recreation economy that drives many rural economies in the Pacific Northwest. She knows that effective management of public lands is not just about protecting forests and waterways, it is also about protecting jobs. “Sally has walked our trails, paddled in the Sound and climbed our mountains. I have no doubt that she will be an outstanding advocate for the Pacific Northwest. I look forward to working with Sally on issues important to our economy and environment, starting with the designation of the San Juan Islands National Monument.”
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the news that more alumni from Western Washington University currently serving as Peace Corps volunteers than from any other medium-sized college in the nation. Western Washington University is one of three Washington state schools to hold the top ranking in their respective categories, the Peace Corps announced today. “Western students have long shown a commitment to public service, so it comes as no surprise that so many alumni have committed years of their lives to help communities around the world,” Larsen said. “We should all be proud that so many Western alumni are working to improve lives and are spreading the good name of our university, state and country. Go Vikes!” There are currently 73 Western alumni serving in the Peace Corps. The University of Washington leads large colleges with 107 volunteers and Spokane’s Gonzaga University leads small colleges with 24 volunteers.
02.04.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a successful effort to protect federal grants for six marine communities in Snohomish, Skagit, Island and San Juan counties. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants will fund security and safety upgrades at ports in the region. The grants were rescinded in October 2012, but Larsen helped the communities obtain extensions for the funds to be used this year. “Our ports are vital economic and recreational assets that Northwest Washington businesses and residents depend on every day,” Larsen said. “These grants will help the ports invest in security and safety that will translate directly into economic benefits in our communities.” As a member of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, Larsen regularly visits Northwest ports. He recently visited the Port of South Whidbey where he pledged to help secure the FEMA funding. The details of the grants are as follows: Island County Port of South Whidbey: $1,000,000 for the marina expansion project, port security surveillance equipment, and the purchase of a fire boat and police boat San Juan County Port of Friday Harbor: $11,000 for surveillance equipment Skagit County Port of Anacortes: $475,000 for surveillance equipment, security vehicles and security lighting Skagit County Sheriff’s Office: $468,400 for interoperability and intelligence analysis software Snohomish County Everett Police Department: $429,000 for police boat with firefighting capability Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office: $83,500 for enhanced navigational aids for sheriff boats
01.29.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a joint letter sent Monday, the Northwest Washington Congressional delegation called on President Barack Obama to take action to conserve close to 1,000 acres of federally owned land on the San Juan Islands with a Presidential National Monument designation. U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA-2), and Suzan DelBene (D-WA-1) urged President Obama to make such a designation prior to the departure of Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar later this year. Salazar has led the Administration’s efforts on conserving the federally owned lands in the San Juan Islands, including holding multiple community forums in Washington state over the last several years. Salazar announced on January 16 that he would leave the post and return to Colorado later this year. In the letter to President Obama, Cantwell, Murray, Larsen and DelBene also announced their intention to reintroduce legislation in the 113th Congress that would conserve the land through a Congressional National Conservation Area (NCA) designation. Currently, there is no long-term comprehensive management plan for these lands, which the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) oversees. “As the 113th Congress and your second term commence, we write to renew our support for the dual-track approach to conserving certain federally owned land parcels in the San Juan Islands that are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM),” Cantwell, Murray, Larsen and DelBene wrote. “While we will continue to push for the swift passage of our legislation to conserve these areas, we want to make clear that we believe a National Monument designation offers another pathway that could expedite our shared goals. Before Secretary Salazar leaves office, we urge you to consider designating a National Monument in the San Juan Islands, bringing his and our efforts to fruition.” The citizen-driven effort to preserve these lands has generated widespread, passionate support from the community. In February 2012, Cantwell, Salazar and members of the community held a public meeting in Anacortes to discuss federal efforts to preserve the land. In July 2011, Cantwell and Larsen held a community listening session in Friday Harbor to hear feedback on the effort to create a National Conservation Area. In April 2011, Salazar held a meeting in Washington state with state and local leaders to discuss San Juan Islands conservation efforts. Permanent protection of the approximately 1,000 acres of federally owned lands would ensure it remains in its current state and publicly accessible, despite higher use. The federally owned lands include over 60 locations that range from pine forests to lighthouses and are visited by more than 70,000 people every year. “A National Monument designation will protect the sensitive and beautiful BLM lands in the San Juan Islands and would make a lasting impact of the hundreds of hours of service made by local volunteers to care for the land,” said Tom Reeve, a member of the Islanders for the San Juan Islands National Conservation Area. “We applaud the leadership of our Congressional delegation and urge President Obama to act now to meet the call of San Juan islanders to preserve these cherished lands for future generations of islanders and visitors.” Full text of the letter is below. January 28, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As the 113th Congress and your second term commence, we write to renew our support for the dual-track approach to conserving certain federally owned land parcels in the San Juan Islands that are managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). While we intend to reintroduce legislation to protect these cherished lands permanently through a Congressional National Conservation Area designation, we fully support your alternative efforts to conserve these same lands through a Presidential National Monument designation (an authority that Congress granted as part of the Antiquities Act of 1906) if such a designation ensures the same level of community involvement as the legislative effort. The BLM manages approximately 1,000 acres in the San Juan Islands that are important wildlife habitat and draw thousands of tourists every year. Secretary of the Interior Salazar has been particularly helpful to our efforts to preserve these lands. We greatly appreciated his visits in April 2011 and February 2012 to engage local stakeholders and discuss the best way to protect and preserve public access to these unique federal parcels. His willingness to listen to our local constituents and their concerns about the legislation and National Monument designation was instrumental in gaining local support for the dual-track approach. The volunteer community group that first developed the idea of a National Conservation Area, in addition to local, state and tribal stakeholders, now supports a National Monument designation as well. While we will continue to push for the swift passage of our legislation to conserve these areas, we want to make clear that we believe a National Monument designation offers another pathway that could expedite our shared goals. Before Secretary Salazar leaves office, we urge you to consider designating a National Monument in the San Juan Islands, bringing his and our efforts to fruition. Thank you for your interest in the San Juan Islands. We look forward to working with you to protect these areas for future generations.
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting no on the Temporary Debt Limit Suspension Act. “Congress must lift the debt ceiling in a clean vote and then turn immediately to address our fiscal challenges,” Larsen said. “Raising the debt ceiling does not allow new spending; it only allows the United States to pay the bills it already owes. “This bill is not a serious proposal. All this bill does is set up yet another fiscal cliff in a few months’ time. “This political brinksmanship has real consequences in Northwest Washington, across the nation and around the world. Congress needs to say with one voice that the United States will pay the bills that we have accrued. These short-term fixes do nothing to restore confidence to the economy or solve our long-term fiscal problems. “I am committed as ever to tackling our budget deficit and paying down our national debt. I was one of only 38 members of Congress to vote for a bipartisan budget plan that would use a balanced approach to cut the deficit by $4 trillion. We must replace the automatic spending cuts with a balanced plan that preserves vital job-creating investments, ends tax breaks for the wealthy and big corporations, and protects Social Security and Medicare.”
01.22.2013	Prioritizes Creating Pacific Northwest Jobs and Ensuring Safe and Efficient Air Travel System WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is now the top House Democrat on aviation issues after a vote today by his colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Larsen will now serve as the Ranking Member on the Aviation Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over all aspects of civil aviation including safety, infrastructure, labor, commerce and international issues, and oversees the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). “The Pacific Northwest is the aerospace capital of the world, and I will work hard to make sure the United States invests in our aviation future,” Larsen said. “Aviation means jobs in Northwest Washington. Anything I can do to support the growth and safety of air travel will bring good jobs to our communities. “Just as wings and engines give lift to planes, so too does the aviation industry give lift to the Northwest economy. By investing in critical aviation infrastructure like airports and air traffic control systems, U.S. airlines will be able to support more flights and buy more planes from our manufacturers. “In the Pacific Northwest we understand that air travel is a critical link in commerce, particularly for manufacturers who seek to export their products overseas. As we seek to grow our trade ties with Asia-Pacific nations, American business men and women will need frequent and efficient ways to travel abroad to access new markets. “The growth of aviation depends on a strong safety system that makes sure planes, passengers and crew members are secure. The safety work that FAA employees perform helps make sure that all parts of air travel are safe, from the planes we fly on to the management of the airspace to the training of pilots and flight attendants. I look forward to working with the FAA to make sure they have the resources they need to ensure air safety and adapt to new growth and innovation. “A healthy aviation industry depends on strong competition and fairness, among both airlines and manufacturers. As airlines consolidate, Congress must evaluate how customers are affected in terms of both service and ticket prices. On the manufacturing side, I maintain my strong belief that American workers will provide the best products when they can compete on an even playing field. “Small aerospace manufacturers are indispensable in the construction of aircraft, yet face unique challenges that we should work to lessen. I will work to put small businesses on an even playing field with larger suppliers by making sure the FAA streamlines its testing and safety certification process for new technology and equipment. “The aviation industry faces many exciting challenges and opportunities in the years ahead. We need to fully implement the Next Generation Air Transportation System to take advantage of satellite technology that saves fuel and cuts delays. We must continue investing in the next generation of green fuels to cut the carbon footprint of aviation and ensure its sustainability. “The next generation of air traffic control depends not only on technology, but on the workforce that wields it. Congress must invest in training new air traffic controllers to replace today’s aging and retiring workers. “I look forward to continue working with Rep. Frank LoBiondo who will chair the Subcommittee. Rep. LoBiondo and I forged a strong bipartisan relationship as the leaders of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, and I am confident that he and I will work well together with a similar bipartisan spirit.” Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, which Larsen represents, includes the Boeing Everett Factory where Boeing manufactures the 747s, 767s, 777s, 787s and the new Air Force KC-46A tankers. Dozens of small- and medium-sized aerospace suppliers are also in the District. The District also includes Paine Field, seven smaller public airports and numerous private airfields. District residents use Bellingham International Airport and Sea-Tac International Airport.
01.14.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is pushing legislation that would provide federal funding to Pacific states that are dealing with marine debris stemming from the March 2011 Japanese tsunami. “Marine debris is a costly problem that puts seafarers and ecosystems at risk in coastal communities across the country,” Larsen said. “Pacific states like Washington need more support as they struggle to deal with the huge volume of Japanese tsunami marine debris washing up on our shores.” Larsen introduced an amendment to a disaster relief funding bill that Congress is considering this week. The amendment would let the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration have greater discretion over marine debris cleanup funds currently earmarked for Superstorm Sandy. “Just last month an entire Japanese dock washed up on the Washington state coast,” Larsen said. “Our state and local governments do not have the resources to deal with this problem, which can cost as much as $4,300 per ton of debris that comes ashore. My amendment will help Pacific states protect their communities and clean up the mess that the tsunami left behind.” The amendment is cosponsored by Reps. Madeleine Bordallo, D-Guam, and Jared Huffman, D-Calif.
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after being sworn in to the 113th Congress. “My focus in the 113th Congress will not waver: we need to create jobs and invest in long-term economic growth in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “I am pleased to now represent a diverse new constituency in south Snohomish County and look forward to working with these communities to support local initiatives that create jobs, advance innovation and expand education and training opportunities. Throughout the Second District I will continue supporting investments in roads, bridges, highways and ferries, and helping businesses export their products, not their jobs, overseas. “The last Congress left too much work incomplete. We must come together to cut the deficit by acting on a balanced plan that puts us on a path to fiscal sustainability. We must pass a strong new version of the Violence Against Women Act to help prevent domestic violence and prosecute offenders. And Congress needs to pass comprehensive immigration reform that includes the DREAM Act to make sure students brought to the United States through no fault of their own are able to stay and contribute to their country. “I understand why so many people are frustrated with Congress. My commitment to my constituents is that I will work in a bipartisan manner to produce results that create jobs and move the country forward. That is what I did in the last Congress, passing legislation to help businesses export, improve pipeline safety and help veterans get jobs. As a leader of the New Democrat Coalition, I will continue working across the aisle to produce legislation that responsibly invests in our people and in our future.”
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today on the bipartisan tax compromise passed by the Senate early this morning. “A few weeks ago I asked people in my District what a $2,000 tax cut means to them. Patrick from Langley told me $2,000 pays his annual electric bill. Cathy from Eastsound said she would use the money to help her daughter pay for college. Annette said she would spend the money to support small businesses in Sedro-Woolley. “The people I represent spoke, and I listened. For that reason, I support passage of this bipartisan bill making middle class tax cuts permanent. House Republican leaders should let the House vote on this bill so we can send it to the President and stop tax hikes on all working Americans that take effect today. “This compromise is not perfect, but it is necessary. “This bill preserves tax cuts for all middle class Americans while letting tax cuts for the highest earners to expire. The bill limits tax deductions for the wealthiest Americans. The end result will be the most progressive tax code the United States has seen in decades. “My top priority is to grow the economy and create jobs. This bill preserves tax credits that help the middle class and help students pay for college. The preservation of research and manufacturing incentives ensures businesses will keep investing in future growth. Coupled with legislation I authored in the recent defense bill that supports small business innovation, these measures ensures the United States continues making the investments it needs to create jobs in the long run. “The bill does not include cuts to Medicare and Social Security which would hurt seniors. While entitlement reforms continue to be part of the discussion as we address the deficit, we must make sure that any changes to these critical programs protect the guaranteed benefits that seniors are due. “The extension of enhanced unemployment insurance benefits will make sure that folks who are out of work through no fault of their own are able to stay in their homes and provide for their families. “This bill only gets half the job done. I am disappointed it does not deal with across-the-board spending cuts or the debt ceiling. “The debt ceiling must be raised immediately. Raising the debt ceiling does not allow more spending, but instead makes sure the United States can pay for the debts that it has already incurred. “Congress still needs to tackle the deficit in a meaningful way. I continue to support a bold and balanced plan to cut $4 trillion from the deficit through a combination of targeted spending cuts and increased revenues. We must replace across-the-board spending cuts in the sequester with a balanced plan that preserves vital investments in infrastructure, education and research that make our economy grow. “None of my constituents deserve to be forced to endure this economic brinksmanship. Congress has a responsibility to work in a bipartisan manner to prevent future manufactured crises like the fiscal cliff. I commit to working with my moderate Republican and Democratic colleagues to forge bipartisan compromises that make our economy stronger.” The tax agreement includes the following provisions: Permanently extends income tax cuts for individuals earning less than $400,000 and married couples earning less than $450,000. Extends the state sales tax deduction for 2012 and 2013, allowing Washington residents to deduct the amount of sales tax they pay on their federal tax return. Extends enhanced unemployment insurance benefits for one year. Extends tax credits that support families with children, low-income working people and students in colleges and universities. Provides a permanent fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax to exempt the middle class. Provides a one-year fix to the sustainable growth rate for Medicare, meaning seniors will be able to continue seeing their doctors. Extends the farm bill for nine months. A full summary of the bill is available here.
12.21.2012	WASHINGTON—Six members of Washington’s Congressional Delegation today called on federal investigators to complete their investigation into the April 2010 explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes that claimed seven lives. Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell joined Reps. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Suzan DelBene (WA-01), in writing a letter to the U.S. Chemical Safety Board about their delayed investigation. The members wrote: “As the third anniversary of the event is rapidly nearing, we note with growing concern that the one major report still outstanding is the one being conducted by the U.S. Chemical Safety Board. We are also very dismayed by reports that the Board has redirected personnel and resources from this investigation in order to work on other, more recent accidents and incidents …We ask that you immediately update us in writing on the status of the Board’s report, and urge you to complete this investigation as soon as possible. Our constituents must not wait any longer to get the information they deserve.” The full text of the letter follows: December 21, 2012 The Honorable Rafael Moure-Eraso Chairman U.S. Chemical Safety Board 2175 K Street NW, Suite 400 Washington, DC 20037 Dear Chairman Moure-Eraso: On April 2, 2010, seven of our constituents lost their lives after a fire and explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes, Washington. In the 32 months since this horrific incident, the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries and the Tesoro Company itself have issued their reports on and findings related to the incident, and legal settlements have been reached between Tesoro and the families of the seven workers who were killed. As the third anniversary of the event is rapidly nearing, we note with growing concern that the one major report still outstanding is the one being conducted by the U.S. Chemical Safety Board. We are also very dismayed by reports that the Board has redirected personnel and resources from this investigation in order to work on other, more recent accidents and incidents. Needless to say, we, the families and coworkers of the workers who lost their lives, and many others are very interested in the Board’s findings. As you know, Washington state contains a number of refineries that would benefit from any significant safety suggestions or potential hazards that the Board addresses. The families of the victims of this terrible accident deserve to know that their government’s investigatory and regulatory entities are doing everything they can to prevent future tragedies from occurring. The families of refinery employees throughout the country deserve that same knowledge. We are concerned that the U.S. Chemical Safety Board’s delay in providing a final report is hindering that goal. We ask that you immediately update us in writing on the status of the Board’s report, and urge you to complete this investigation as soon as possible. Our constituents must not wait any longer to get the information they deserve. Sincerely, Patty Murray US Senator Maria Cantwell US Senator Rick Larsen US Representative Jim McDermott US Representative Adam Smith US Representative Suzan DelBene US Representative
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Republican leaders announced they would drop efforts to avert the fiscal cliff and leave Washington, DC, until after Christmas. “The Republicans just picked up their toys and went home,” Larsen said. “Republican leaders just admitted they cannot even pass their own bills. Instead of working with Democrats to find a solution, they are leaving their responsibilities behind and fleeing the Capitol. The only solution is for Republicans to return to the negotiating table with President Obama and Congressional Democrats to find a balanced deal. Democrats are ready, but Republicans just went home. “The Republicans have turned the fiscal cliff into a fiscal comedy of errors. But the American people are not laughing.”
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following about Speaker John Boehner’s ‘Plan B’ proposal which would extend tax rates for those making less than $1 million a year while not addressing the debt ceiling, spending cuts or extending middle class tax credits. “Rather than stay at the negotiating table, the Republicans are showing today that they want to dive head-first over the fiscal cliff into a chasm of fiscal irresponsibility,” Larsen said. “The Republicans’ ‘Plan B’ is nothing more than a political stunt. It has no chance of passing the Senate and would be vetoed by the President. Republicans have decided to waste this time that could have been used working toward a balanced plan that would have solved this crisis. “This proposal is not balanced, does not do enough to cut the deficit, and would raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans. The President has laid out a serious proposal with significant compromises to the Republican position. It is time for Speaker Boehner to return to the negotiating table and find a solution that cuts the deficits and protects middle class Americans from massive tax hikes.”
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON—School districts that are impacted by federal land ownership and serving federally impacted students, including military and tribal families, will receive faster payment of federal dollars thanks to legislation authored by Reps. Rick Larsen (D-WA), and Doc Hastings (R-WA). Their Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act was included in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 which the House of Representatives passed today. “Impact Aid is a lifeline to school districts that keeps teachers in our classrooms,” Larsen said. “Too often schools are left hanging, not knowing when or if they will get the funding they need to continue operating. Because of this legislation, schools will be able to focus on educating their children knowing they will get the dollars they are owed in a timely manner.” “A significant percentage of land in my district is federally owned, and I have long believed that students should not suffer because the federal government has taken away a community’s taxable land,” said Hastings. “I have heard from many Impact Aid school districts in Central Washington that depend on Impact Aid payments for things as basic as paying teachers and providing basic educational programs. I am pleased that this provision to hold the Department of Education accountable for distributing these funds in a timely manner was included in the National Defense Authorization Act.” Impact Aid provides funding to compensate school districts that lose tax revenue due to a large concentration of federally-owned land, including school districts with military bases. But payments are often delayed, leaving school districts with budget shortfalls. The Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act relieves those pressures by requiring the federal government to pay school districts what they owe within three years. There are currently over 1,300 federally impacted school districts across the country serving 15 million students. In Washington’s Second Congressional District represented by Larsen, school districts in Oak Harbor, Coupeville, Marysville, La Conner, Ferndale and Nooksack are affected by the Impact Aid Program. In Washington’s Fourth Congressional District represented by Hastings, Glenwood, Grand Coulee Dam, Granger, Kennewick, Mabton, Mt. Adams, Quincy, Richland, Sunnyside, Toppenish and Wapato School districts are affected by the Impact Aid program. “Delayed payments from the Department of Education have been a serious issue for many of the federally impacted school districts in Washington State,” said Tim Ames, president of the Washington State Impact Aid Association & superintendent of the Wellpinit School District. “Congressmen Rick Larsen and Doc Hastings listened to our concerns and have worked tirelessly to resolve this issue. All 54 impacted school districts in Washington are pleased to learn that the Congressmen’s language to ensure timely payments was included in the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act. Financial clarity enables school districts to effectively plan and address changing circumstances, which ultimately results in a higher quality education for our students.” “Passage of the Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act is welcome news to Oak Harbor School District,” said Oak Harbor School District Superintendent Rick Schulte. “As a result of this legislation, we will be able to plan for and manage Impact Aid funds in a responsible and deliberate manner. Especially at a time when state and federal funding cuts are causing difficult program and staffing decisions, we are pleased to know we will receive Impact Aid funds on a more reliable basis."
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON—Small businesses will have greater access to defense contracts thanks to provisions in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 authored by Reps. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., and Bill Shuster, R-Penn. Larsen and Shuster co-chaired the Panel on Business Challenges Within the Defense Industry from September 2011 to March 2012 which looked at the challenges businesses face in working with the Department of Defense. “A strong defense industrial base is critical to both our national security and economy,” Larsen said. “As the Defense Department resets after a decade of war, we need to make sure our defense dollars are used in the most efficient way and go to the most innovative technologies that support our troops. These provisions are designed to help small businesses compete for Defense Department dollars. Small businesses are true innovators and important job-creators. It is critical they are given every opportunity to compete for defense contracts. This panel was a model of bipartisan cooperation, and I appreciate the leadership of Rep. Shuster and other members of the panel.” “I want to thank my colleague Mr. Larsen for co-chairing the successful Panel on Small Business Challenges in the Defense Industry,” said Shuster. “For six months our panel traveled across the country holding briefings, roundtables, and hearings on challenges that small and medium sized businesses face within the defense industry. The panel identified barriers to entry for small businesses, and the NDAA will implement these changes that cut through red tape and bureaucracy that stifle innovation and job creation, and will allow small businesses better access for conducting business with DoD. Encouraging businesses of all sizes to compete in the defense industry allows for the best and most competitive final products for our warfighters.” Title 16 of the National Defense Authorization Act includes several provisions derived from the Panel’s March 2012 report. The provisions would: • Strengthen Department of Defense incentives to work with small businesses; • Remove unnecessary barriers to entry into the defense market; • Empower small business advocates in the Department of Defense; • Improve transparency and enforcement mechanisms between the Department of Defense and industry; • Increase the maximum size of surety bonds the Small Business Administration can guarantee at no cost to the taxpayer; and • Require one percent of funding for the Small Business Innovation Research program to be reserved for the Commercialization Readiness Program which pairs together developmental technologies from small- and medium-sized businesses with Department of Defense research centers and weapons development offices. A full summary of the bill, including Title 16, is available here.
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, opposed the original House version of this bill in May. The bill passed by the House today reflects a compromise agreement between the House and Senate. Larsen served on the Conference Committee that negotiated the final bill. The bill includes several provisions authored by Larsen to help small businesses and schools in Northwest Washington. “While not perfect, this bill meets the needs of our armed forces while eliminating several pieces of bad policy set forth in earlier versions,” Larsen said. “I commend Rep. Adam Smith for his leadership in improving this bill. “This bill removes irresponsible provisions that would have required U.S. combat troops to remain in Afghanistan until 2016. Instead this bill stresses that the United States should end its combat operations in that country by 2014. While I continue to believe the United States can end its combat operations in Afghanistan earlier than 2014, I am pleased that this bill keeps our troop withdrawal on schedule. “This bill makes it clear those detained on U.S. soil are assured the right of trial. While this language is not as strong as the amendment I supported by Rep. Smith which would have also eliminated mandatory military detention for terrorist suspects, it is a step in the right direction. We must remember that the civil liberties afforded to us by the Constitution do not make us weaker—they make us stronger. We must restore faith in our judicial process and show the world that our values stand strong in the face of those who would try to attack us. “The bill includes several provisions reflecting the bipartisan work I did on a panel designed to resolve challenges that small businesses face when contracting with the Department of Defense. These provisions will make it easier for small businesses to access defense dollars and will encourage the Defense Department to make use of the innovative abilities of small businesses. “My successful effort to include the text of my bill, the Impact Aid Timely Repayments Act, will help school districts in Northwest Washington and across the country serve their students. Too often schools must wait years before receiving the federal funds they are due. This bill will change that, helping school districts like Oak Harbor, Marysville and La Conner. “I am pleased this bill includes the Shaheen amendment which allows female service members and dependents of servicemembers access to reproductive care, including abortions, in the event of rape or incest. Those covered by military health care should have the same health care options that others do in the case of such crimes. Furthermore this bill requires the Department of Defense to strengthen protections against sexual assault within the Armed Services. “The inclusion of a so-called ‘conscience clause’ is inappropriate, and Congress should work to eliminate this unnecessary and wrong amendment. Discrimination has no place in the military, and no law should protect those who would seek to discriminate against their gay and lesbian colleagues. “The bill appropriately strengthens sanctions on Iran, which will serve to further cripple the Iranian regime that threatens the United States and infringe the human rights of its own citizens. “I am pleased the final version of this bill significantly weakens misguided provisions that would require the reintroduction of tactical nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula. Democrats were also successful in preventing attempts to weaken health and safety standards at our national nuclear laboratories and production facilities. “The bill inappropriately authorizes defense spending at more than $5 billion over the spending caps that Congress set forth in the Budget Control Act. If Congress is serious about cutting the deficit, then we need to hold to the spending limits that we agreed to.”
12.17.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding the shootings in Newtown, Conn., that claimed the lives of 20 children and eight adults including the shooter. “My family and I join all Americans in grieving for the children, teachers and staff who had their lives taken from them in the vicious attacks at Sandy Hook Elementary School,” Larsen said. “As the first children are laid to rest today, we must pledge never to forget the victims of this senseless act of violence. “From the attack on Congresswoman Giffords that left six dead to the shootings in Colorado, Wisconsin, Oregon and Connecticut, it is too painfully clear that we must take meaningful action to make our communities safer. The 2008 Skagit County mass shootings that killed six brought this type of tragedy to our home. No single law can prevent the actions of a madman, but that is no excuse to not take action. “I continue to hold my position that Congress should reinstate the assault weapons ban and ban high-capacity ammunition clips above 10 rounds per clip, as proposed by Rep. McCarthy. These military-grade weapons serve no legitimate purpose in civilian life. “We must close the gun show and private sale loopholes and strengthen background check requirements to make sure that criminals and the mentally ill are unable to purchase guns. “Gun control is part, but not all of the solution. Mental illness has been shown to be a factor in some of these mass shootings. Mental illnesses are often misunderstood and under-diagnosed. Health providers need to give mental health the same attention that physical health is given. Congress should direct more research into mental illness and provide more funding for effective care of mentally ill patients. “We have not seen the last of violent crimes in our country, but if Congress and the President act, we can make our communities safer and shrink this cycle of violence.”
12.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the Senate approved a bill that would end the Department of Veterans Affairs’ ban on in vitro fertilization for disabled veterans. The bill was authored by Sen. Patty Murray, and Larsen introduced a companion version of the bill in the House of Representatives. “These veterans have already paid too high a price in service to our nation. They should not have to pay a higher cost to have a family,” Larsen said. “I applaud Sen. Murray’s leadership on this issue and look forward to working with her and my colleagues in the House to pass this bill. Now that the Senate has spoken with a unified voice, there is no reason that the House shouldn’t vote to give the hundreds of veterans and their families struggling with infertility the care they deserve.” Murray and Larsen discussed this bill with disabled veterans and their families in Seattle in October. These veterans have either used or need to use in vitro fertilization to conceive children because of service-connected disabilities.
12.06.2012	A hundred thousand fewer kids in Head Start. Thousands of fewer agents securing our borders. More than 2,000 fewer research grants to combat cancer, Alzheimer’s and other diseases. And a $2,200 tax hike for the average American family. Those are just a few of the consequences scheduled to take effect at the end of this month if Congress and the President do not reach an agreement to stop the United States economy from barreling off the fiscal cliff. The fiscal cliff is a combination of automatic spending cuts and tax increases. The automatic cuts in both defense and domestic spending would limit vital services and lead to thousands of layoffs. The tax increases would cut into every paycheck, leading consumers to spend $200 billion less and send our economy back into recession. I know how important it is to get our budget deficits under control and start paying down the national debt. In fact, I was one of only 38 members of Congress from both parties to vote for a budget this year that would cut the deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years. I favor a bold and balanced plan—but there must be a plan. The spending cuts and tax hikes that come with the fiscal cliff are reckless and would undermine our already-fragile economic growth. What is at stake if we go over the cliff? Here are just a few examples: School districts that serve large numbers of military families and Indian tribes like Oak Harbor, Marysville and Ferndale will get a huge cut in funding, directly hurting kids in the classrooms. Seniors in Snohomish County would for the first time face a waiting list for Meals on Wheels, which would have to cut 10,000 meals a year. More than 24,500 Homeland Security personnel would lose their jobs, leading to longer wait times at the borders and a decreased ability to stop the flow of illegal drugs into our communities. Cuts to the Federal Aviation Administration would lead airlines to scale back their operations. If Delta and United buy fewer planes, we’ll see job losses at all our aerospace manufacturers, from Boeing down to small suppliers. So what should we do? First, we need to make middle-class tax cuts permanent, providing economic certainty to families and preventing another recession. The Senate has already passed legislation extending these tax cuts. Leaders of the House of Representatives have so far refused to allow me and my colleagues vote on this bill. Second, we need to restore the tax rates for the richest 2 percent to what they were in the high-growth 1990s. This is not about class warfare; it is about fairness. Throughout the recession, middle-class Americans have suffered layoffs, wage stagnation and the loss of property value. But the richest have continued to do well, while not being asked to chip in to tackle our deficit. Third, we must maintain the vital investments that help our economy grow. Repairing our roads, bridges, highways and ferries does not just create jobs today, but it builds the foundation for long-term growth. Expanded Pell Grants and subsidized student loans help kids go to college today, and prepare them to contribute more in the workforce tomorrow. Finally, we must get serious about strengthening Medicare and Social Security for future generations. To preserve Social Security, we should end the cap on earnings that is subject to the Social Security tax. Currently all income above $110,100 is exempt from the tax. That means that someone making $10 million a year pays the same amount into Social Security as someone who makes a hundredth of that. As it stands, Medicare will be insolvent by 2024. We have several opportunities to save money in Medicare while improving patient care and preserving the guaranteed benefit for all. That includes expanding efforts to root out fraud and expand pilot initiatives that tie Medicare payments to the quality of care, rather than the quantity of care delivered. There are no sacred cows. Both Democrats and Republicans must commit to a balanced approach that will cut the deficit in a meaningful way without undermining economic growth. There is no doubt that we are going to feel pain in the next few years. But if we do this right, a decade from now we will be a stronger country for the work we do today.
12.05.2012	WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives today approved a bill to set policy and spending levels for the Coast Guard and reauthorize the Maritime Administration. Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, led passage of the bill as the ranking Democratic member on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. “The Coast Guard performs its broad array of missions with skill and professionalism. This bill gives the Guard the resources they need to provide security and safety on our coasts,” Larsen said. “In a coastal state like Washington, a strong economy needs a safe and secure maritime environment. This bill will help the Coast Guard and maritime industry thrive.” A full summary of the bill is available here. The bill prohibits the decommissioning of the Coast Guard’s two heavy duty icebreakers. Larsen and Sen. Maria Cantwell have led the effort to preserve the Coast Guard’s icebreaker fleet. They recently visited Vigor Shipyards in Seattle where both the Polar Sea and Polar Star are currently stationed. “The Arctic will be the Northwest Passage of the 21st century, and the United States needs icebreakers to secure our interests in the region,” Larsen said. “Maintaining an icebreaker fleet protects American commerce and our national security, and creates hundreds of jobs in Northwest Washington. We should not cede this important region to international competitors.” The bill also reauthorizes the Marine Debris Research, Reduction and Prevention Act. “As debris from the 2011 Japanese tsunami floats toward our shores, these provisions will help states and the federal government clean up and protect the environment,” Larsen said. The bill includes language Larsen authored maintain the Coast Guard’s plan to purchase 180 Response Boat-Mediums. These 45-foot boats are used for search and rescue, safety and security operations. Some of the fleet is being constructed by Kvichak Marine Industries in Washington state. Washington state shipbuilders will directly benefit from the reauthorization of the Maritime Administration, which supports U.S. shipbuilders and works to integrate waterborne transportation with the full transportation system. Larsen urged his colleagues to support the bill in a floor statement this morning: Larsen Urges the House of Representatives to Pass H.Res. 825, to Reauthorize the Coast Guard I rise in support of the resolution introduced by my colleague from New Jersey and chairman of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, Chairman LoBiondo. Before I begin my remarks, I first want to join Chairman LoBiondo in offering my condolences to the entire Coast Guard family for the tragic loss of one of their shipmates during a drug interdiction operation in the waters off Southern California this past weekend. We all recognize that the servicemen and women of the Coast Guard willingly and routinely expose themselves to highly dangerous conditions on the behalf of our nation. Nevertheless, it is a profound tragedy when a servicemember makes the ultimate sacrifice, and our thoughts and prayers are with the Coast Guard at this time. The legislation I stand in support of today has been developed as a compromise over the past two months during negotiations with the Senate. It amends H.R. 2838, the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2012, that passed the House last November, and also incorporates numerous provisions from the amendments to H.R. 2838 that cleared the Senate in September. I appreciate Chairman LoBiondo’s willingness to work with me on this legislation in a bipartisan and open manner. I am confident in saying that the final bill embodies a fair and bipartisan compromise for which everyone involved can feel rightly proud. As the Ranking Democratic Member on the Coast Guard Subcommittee, it has been a high priority for me to advance policies to revitalize and expand our domestic maritime industries. This legislation marks a significant achievement in doing just that. This legislation will create jobs in the vital shipbuilding industry by taking steps towards improving our icebreaker fleet and finishing the program of record for the Response Boat-Medium. Earlier this year, I had a chance to visit job creating shipyards that will be a part of the modernization of the Coast Guard fleet. These shipyards provide good paying jobs for hard-working engineers, welders, electricians and mechanics in the Northwest and throughout the country. The reauthorization of the Maritime Administration will improve the fortunes of those shipyards and I am pleased it is included in this bill. This bill also reauthorizes the Coast Guard, and reforms a number of key programs. The Coast Guard has one of the most expansive missions in the federal government. This multi-mission, maritime military service is responsible for a broad range of activities including mariner licensing, emergency oil spill response, vessel inspections, and navigation safety. The Coast Guard remains indispensible to the maintenance of a reliable and secure marine supply chain that supports maritime cargo operations, which contribute $649 billion annually to the U.S. gross domestic product, sustaining more than 13 million jobs. This legislation authorizes funding levels for both the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard Reserve that provide for increased funding levels in Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014 over the Fiscal Year 2012 appropriation level. I believe the funding levels in the bill remain insufficient to address the documented needs of the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard has been asked to do more with less. I am afraid that their only choice will be to do less with less. So while I would prefer these levels were higher, I understand that these funding levels are likely the best that can be provided under present constraints. And that’s just wrong. We must be aware, however, that funding levels in this legislation are absent any consideration of what will be needed to address the estimated $260 million in damages to Coast Guard facilities in the Northeast as a result of Hurricane Sandy. These costs will need to be addressed in future supplemental funding. I want to highlight that this legislation contains several provisions that will improve the Coast Guard’s readiness and capabilities in the increasingly important Arctic region. Specifically, this bill directs the Coast Guard to complete a business case analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of reactivating its heavy icebreaker, the Polar Sea. This analysis is overdue and vitally important. At present, the Coast Guard has only one icebreaker, the Healy. Although the Coast Guard expects in 2013 to reactivate its other heavy icebreaker, the Polar Star, the plain fact remains that the Coast Guard’s icebreaker fleet remains severely under-capitalized and over-extended. As it will be years before a new icebreaker can be delivered, it is essential that we make an informed decision on the Polar Sea now in order to have a balanced assessment of Coast Guard polar icebreaking capabilities for the near term. This legislation also advances provisions that address many administrative, personnel, procurement and regulatory issues affecting the Coast Guard. Specifically, several new authorities to bring the Coast Guard into parity with the other armed services have been included. Additionally, this legislation contains new authorities that will improve the efficiency and oversight of the Coast Guard’s major acquisition programs, especially new advance procurement authority and development of multi-year capital investment plans. This bill includes language I authored that requires the Coast Guard to complete the procurement of 180 Response Boat-Mediums, or RB-Ms, as originally planned in the program of record for this vessel. RB-Ms are a critical piece of maritime security, and the completion of these boats will lead to additional job creation in small shipyards, a priority for me. Besides addressing the needs of the Coast Guard, this legislation also advances several important initiatives to support the U.S. Merchant Marine. Title III of the legislation protects the Jones Act by strengthening the review and notice requirements for future administrative waivers. This provision, originally called for in H.R. 3202, the American Mariner Jobs Protection Act, should help preserve more opportunities for U.S. carriers and seafarers. This title also provides a formal authorization for the Committee on the Maritime Transportation System. Title IV of the legislation includes several provisions that will improve the Maritime Administration’s ability to accept, manage and recycle vessels held in the National Defense Reserve Fleet. I am also pleased that Title VI of this legislation reauthorizes the Marine Debris Research, Reduction and Prevention Act. More and more marine debris from the 2011 Japanese tsunami continues to wash up on the shores of Pacific Coast states, including in my home state of Washington. Japan, even in the midst of recovery from this disaster, has shown extraordinary leadership and friendship with the Untied States by recently announcing they will donate $5 million to debris cleanup. It is important that we reauthorize the Marine Debris Act to ensure that the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has the authority it needs to work with the states to address this serious threat. I very much appreciate the cooperation of Chairman LoBiondo for including this important environmental measure. I also applaud my colleague Mr. Thompson for his work to ensure this program is reauthorized. In closing, Mr. Speaker, this legislation reflects a fair and balanced compromise. We have an obligation to support the Coast Guard and to support our U.S. Merchant Marine. A safe and secure maritime environment is good for job creation, good for the U.S. economy, and good for the American people. In my estimation, this legislation fulfills that obligation, and I urge its passage today. Downloads » 2012.12.05.CoastGuardFactSheet.pdf
12.03.2012	WASHINGTON—Residents of Northwest Washington are urging Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to support a balanced deal to avert the fiscal cliff and make sure that middle class tax cuts do not expire. Larsen’s op-ed on how to avert the fiscal cliff was published in the Bellingham Herald and Everett Herald on Sunday. Larsen said the fiscal cliff would bring severe pain to Northwest Washington and argued that it must be replaced with a balanced approach. “I favor a bold and balanced plan--but there must be a plan,” Larsen wrote. “The spending cuts and tax hikes that come with the fiscal cliff are reckless and would undermine our already-fragile economic growth.” “There are no sacred cows,” he added. “Both Democrats and Republicans must commit to a balanced approach that will cut the deficit in a meaningful way without undermining economic growth. There is no doubt that we are going to feel pain in the next few years. But if we do this right, a decade from now we will be a stronger country for the work we do today.” Without action, tax rates for all Americans are scheduled to increase at the start of 2013. Larsen supports making the middle class tax cuts permanent, which saves the average household $2,200 a year. Larsen’s constituents have written him hundreds of letters and have been using social media to tell him what that tax cut means to them, and giving him their thoughts on what to do about the fiscal cliff: Annette from Sedro-Woolley: “That $2K will go into my retirement fund or to support the local economy.” Patrick from Langley: “2K is my yearly electrical bill.” Jake from Marysville: “That would be $2K less going to my own personal debt, which would mean I would need to cut back on any spending I do at any businesses.” Linda from Point Roberts: “University tuition, extracurricular High School activities, gas, food, lights, heat, Christmas, rent.... It means a LOT!” David from Granite Falls: “We’d further invest in our small business!” Bill from Marysville: “Pay down some personal debt.” Nancy from Langley: “First we must as a country put policies in place to even the playing field … Any support for the middle class is a step in the right direction. I support President Obama's effort to deal with the economy in a balanced way including holding firm on the goal of increasing taxes on the wealthy.” Suzanne from La Conner: “I will use the $2K to help pay for my long term care insurance.” Cathy from Eastsound: “I would use the extra money to help my daughter pay for exorbitant state college tuition and expenses.” TC from Bellingham: “#My2K means co pays 4 meds testing and treatments 4 #RheumatoidArthritis and #asthma” Trevor from Everett: “I don't care what you have to do to avoid this cliff. Do it! Higher taxes will bankrupt me.” Larsen is encouraging his constituents to let him know what the fiscal cliff means to them. People can make their voices heard at Facebook on Twitter (@RepRickLarsen) or by e-mail.
11.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted no on a partisan immigration bill that would cut diversity visas for those who come from countries with historically low immigration to the United States. The bill, H.R. 6429, passed the House on a 245 to 139 vote. Larsen is a cosponsor of an alternate bill, the Attracting the Best and Brightest Act of 2012, which would establish a visa for highly educated immigrants without diminishing diversity visas. “Immigration is not a zero-sum game,” Larsen said. “I reject this effort to help one class of immigrants at the expense of another. “The diversity visa program is an important way to make sure that legal immigration to the United States is not closed off to people because of where they were born. The diversity visa program makes sure that Croatians, Ukrainians, Congolese and Cambodians are able to come seek the American dream. “I strongly support establishing a visa program to bring highly educated scientists and engineers to work in the United States, and I am a cosponsor of a bill that will do that. But we do not need to close one door while opening another.” “Congress must pass comprehensive immigration reform to address all of these questions and create clear legal pathways to legal residency for those who wish to come here and contribute to our nation. That must include passing the DREAM Act, to make sure those who came here as children and are contributing to our nation are allowed to stay in the country they call home.”
11.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Suzan DelBene, WA-01, will meet with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) today to press the agency to correct a public housing issue in Snohomish County. Larsen and DelBene requested the meeting with Assistant Secretary Sandra Henriquez to challenge a HUD decision that is preventing the Housing Authority of Snohomish County from improving 210 housing units in 14 different properties. The Housing Authority of Snohomish County wants to transfer 210 units of public housing into more financially stable voucher-based units. The authority has not yet gained HUD approval after repeated requests. The authority asked Larsen and DelBene to assist.
11.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012, which establishes permanent normal trade relations with Russia. “Washington businesses sold more than $400 million in exports to Russia last year alone. By passing this bill, Northwest Washington exporters will be able to expand their sales to Russia and create more jobs at home,” Larsen said. “This bill will cut tariffs that hurt American exporters and make sure that stringent World Trade Organization standards will set a level playing field and protect American workers. “I know that trade deals like this are looked on skeptically by some, but this bill can only help American workers by holding Russia accountable to World Trade Organization standards and providing American workers access to independent arbiters that will ensure that Russia plays by fair trade rules. If we did not establish normal trade relations with Russia, our businesses and workers would be left without these important protections. “This bill also sends a powerful message to Russian leaders that the United States will not tolerate human rights abuses. The Magnitsky Act imposes tough sanctions against those who perpetrate human rights abuses against those who expose corruption in Russia.”
11.15.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the Department of Transportation’s decision to grant Delta Airlines a flight slot between SeaTac and central Tokyo’s Haneda Airport. Larsen, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was a key supporter of the application, and spoke to the Deputy Secretary of Transportation about the application earlier this fall. “This flight is one more way to keep business flowing between Northwest Washington and the booming Asia-Pacific markets,” Larsen said. “This further cements the Northwest’s role as the gateway to the Asia-Pacific. By making it easier for businesspeople to travel to Japan, we will be able to find new opportunities to export Northwest products, not our jobs, overseas.” Last year the President signed Larsen and Sen. Maria Cantwell’s legislation to create a business travel card to make it easier for American businesspeople traveling to the Asia-Pacific region.
11.14.2012	Navy exploring increasing the number of squadrons of P-8A Poseidon aircraft WASHINGTON, DC — Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA) commended an announcement by the U.S. Navy on their intent to prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the introduction of the P-8A Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMA) to the U.S. Navy Fleet. The Navy will study three alternatives to its 2008 Record of Decision (ROD), which could result in as many as seven squadrons and a total of 49 aircraft to Navy Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). A final decision is expected early 2014. “Whidbey Island continues to be a premier naval aviation installation, with strategic location and strong community support,” Murray said. “The Navy’s decision to pursue additional Poseidon squadrons at NASWI is not only a smart fiscal decision, but also a vital national security imperative. I am grateful to Congressman Larsen for his leadership on this and will continue to work with him as this process unfolds in the months and years to come.” “This news shows the Navy’s steadfast commitment to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and provides further assurance that the future of the base is secure,” Larsen said. “Sen. Murray and I have long advocated bringing the P-8As to Whidbey Island. It is the right decision to serve our national security and it protects the future of the base on Whidbey Island.” Click here for more information.
11.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after Suzan DelBene was sworn in as the representative for Washington’s 1st Congressional District. “Suzan worked hard to win this seat, and I know she will work even harder to serve the 1st District,” Larsen said. “Suzan and I will work closely together to meet the needs of Northwest Washington by supporting our small businesses, investing in our schools and teachers and strengthening our infrastructure. “Suzan was incredibly successful in business, but rather than resting on her laurels, she has answered the call of public service. The residents of the 1st District are fortunate to have her fighting for them. I welcome Suzan to the Washington delegation. I know we will soon benefit from her leadership and expertise.”
11.13.2012	WASHINGTON—The Navy is considering increasing the number of squadrons of P-8A Poseidon aircraft at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The Navy will study three alternatives to its 2008 Record of Decision, all of which would result in the basing of more aircraft at Whidbey Island. “This news shows the Navy’s steadfast commitment to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and provides further assurance that the future of the base is secure,” Larsen said. “I have been a determined advocate to bring the P-8As to Whidbey Island. It is the right decision to serve our national security and it protects the future of the base on Whidbey Island.” “I have long called on the Navy to maintain its commitment to Whidbey Island in the Record of Decision, and might have been skeptical of revisions,” Larsen added. “But this is clearly great news for Whidbey Island. The worst case scenario is we keep the four squadrons planned for Whidbey Island. In the best case, we might bring more than twice the number of aircraft to our base.” Larsen accompanied Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Greenert to Whidbey Island in August. During that visit Greenert reaffirmed the Navy’s plan to bring P-8As to the base. The 2008 Record of Decision calls for the basing of four fleet squadrons, a total of 24 aircraft, on Whidbey Island. The alternative plans being considered as part of a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement could bring as many as seven squadrons and a total of 49 aircraft to Whidbey Island. The P-8As are slated to replace the P-3s as they are phased out of service. The alternatives being considered are as follows: Alternatives Basing Locations NAS Whidbey Island NAS Jacksonville MCB Hawaii Kaneohe Bay 2008 Record of Decision 4 Fleet Squadrons (24 aircraft) 5 Fleet Squadrons (42 aircraft) 3 Fleet Squadrons (18 aircraft) Alternative A 7 Fleet Squadrons (49 aircraft) 5 Fleet Squadrons (47 aircraft) Permanent Squadron Detachment (2 aircraft) Alternative B 4 Fleet Squadrons (28 aircraft) 5 Fleet Squadrons (47 aircraft) 3 Fleet Squadrons (18 aircraft) Alternative C 6 Fleet Squadrons (42 aircraft) 6 Fleet Squadrons (54 aircraft) Permanent Squadron Detachment (2 aircraft)
10.25.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that federally-impacted schools in Northwest Washington will receive more of their federal Impact Aid funding immediately. Six local school districts that serve military communities and Indian tribes rely on Impact Aid funding to make up for lost property tax revenue. The U.S. Department of Education will now provide immediate payment of 70 percent of the amount due to school districts instead of the only 45 percent that was previously announced. “Impact Aid is a lifeline to school districts that keeps teachers in our classrooms,” Larsen said. “Too often schools are left hanging, not knowing when or if they will get the funding they need to keep operating. This announcement goes a long way in providing schools the certainty they need to operate this year.” Larsen authored the Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act to require the Department of Education to fully reimburse Impact Aid school districts in a timely manner to eliminate uncertainty for school districts. That bill has bipartisan support and was approved by the House Education and the Workforce Committee earlier this year. “I am working to pass the Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act before the end of this Congress because it will allow our schools to better serve all of our students,” Larsen added. “Schools that serve our military communities and Indian tribes need to be able to plan their budgets and access the funding they are due.” Public schools are required by law to accept all children from military families, Indian reservations and other federal establishments. Families in federal housing, however, do not pay local property taxes on this land, denying local schools of their traditional funding source. This puts a severe financial burden on school districts that educate a significant number of federally-connected children. Six local school districts received Impact Aid funds in 2012. They are: Oak Harbor School District: $3,974,795.65 Coupeville School District: $41,302.46 Marysville School District: $656,757.13 La Conner School District: $2,027,521.31 Ferndale School District: $337,396.36 Nooksack Valley School District: $58,799.82 More information on Larsen’s Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act can be found here.
10.19.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will hold five roundtable discussions with veterans over the next two weeks. Veterans are invited to share their thoughts and concerns about veterans’ issues and learn about the services that Larsen’s offices in Bellingham and Everett provide to veterans. Larsen is a strong supporter of veterans. He supported legislation to strengthen and expand the GI Bill and was a cosponsor of the VOW to Hire Heroes Act, which passed last year and provides tax credits to employers that hire veterans as well as advanced education and training opportunities for veterans returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan. Larsen was also a leader in establishing the Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) in Mount Vernon. The veterans roundtables are as follows: Oak Harbor – Wednesday, October 24th 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Oak Harbor VFW Post 7392 3037 North Goldie Road Langley – Thursday, October 25th 10:15 to 11:15 a.m. American Legion Post 141 14096 State Route 525 Everett – Saturday, October 27th 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Fleet Reserve Association Branch 170 6802 Beverly Boulevard Bellingham – Monday, October 29th 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. American Legion Post 7 1688 West Bakerview Road Sedro-Woolley – Wednesday, October 31st 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. American Legion Post 43 701 Murdock Street
10.11.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $38.4 million federal loan to modernize the electric grid in the San Juan Islands. The U.S. Department of Agriculture loan to Orcas Power and Light Cooperative includes more than $24 million in funding for smart grid projects which will increase efficiency and reliability of electricity service for San Juan Island residents. "This loan is a major federal investment that will improve the lives of all residents on the San Juan Islands," Larsen said. "Residents and businesses across the Islands will see increased electricity reliability as the grid is modernized. The investment in smart grid technologies will help keep electric bills low and make sure that our energy is used in the most efficient way possible." The funds will be used to build and improve 109 miles of electricity distribution line, among other system improvements. The loan is being made through the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development’s Rural Utilities Service. For more information, visit: https://www.rurdev.usda.gov/Utilities_Assistance.html.
10.10.2012	SEATTLE—Two paralyzed veterans and an active duty wounded warrior spoke out yesterday in support of a bill authored by Sen. Patty Murray and introduced in the House by Rep. Rick Larsen, both D-Wash., that would provide advanced fertility treatments, including in vitro fertilization to veterans. (Click here for a fact sheet.) The three servicemembers all sustained service-related injuries that caused paralysis leaving them unable to conceive children without in vitro fertilization. Speaking in support of the bill were: Gary Pearson, a Vietnam War veteran who had to utilize in vitro fertilization to have children; Sean Halstead and his wife Sarah, who also used in vitro fertilization after Sean sustained a paralysis-causing injury; and Niall Kennedy and his wife Margeaux, who are considering pursuing in vitro fertilization to have children after Niall’s injury caused by a parachute malfunction during a training mission. The Kennedys said that without passage of the bill they may need to wait years before being able to afford in vitro fertilization. “The VA has an obligation to care for the combat wounded, and that should include access to the fertility care they need,” said Murray, the chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. “Our bill will give VA broad authority to offer advanced fertility treatments to the most severely wounded veterans, their spouses, or surrogates.” “These veterans have already paid too high a price in service to our nation. They should not have to pay a higher cost to have a family,” Larsen said. “The challenges that Niall, Sean and Gary face as paralyzed veterans are already enormous. They should not have to pay thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket medical costs for fertility treatment that they need because of the injuries they sustained in the line of service. People need to hear these stories and we need to correct this injustice,” Larsen added. Sarah Halstead said that following Sean’s injury, “My first thought after hearing he was going to be OK was, ‘are we going to be able to have a family?” The Halsteads said they spent between $15,000 and $20,000 on in vitro fertilization to conceive their children. Niall Kennedy, who is still an active duty captain in the Army, said the United States owes its servicemembers and veterans all measures to restore their capabilities prior to their injuries to the extent possible. Margeaux Kennedy said that because in vitro fertilization care is not provided by the Veterans Administration, she and Niall have put their family plans on hold. “The very first day I found out that Niall had a spinal injury, I also found out that I might not be able to be a mom,” Margeaux Kennedy said. “Just recently I had to stop thinking about being a mom because I know it’s just not possible right now.” She added that if the Murray-Larsen bill does not pass, she and Niall would have to wait six or seven years before being able to afford in vitro fertilization care on their own. Murray’s bill was approved by the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee and awaits consideration by the full Senate. The bill introduced by Larsen in the House has 14 cosponsors. ###
10.09.2012	Icebreaker docked in Seattle could be scrapped after 2012 unless Congress acts SEATTLE – Today at Vigor Shipyards, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) called on the U.S. Congress to preserve the nation’s only operational heavy duty icebreaker, the Polar Sea. Unless Congress acts, the Polar Sea is scheduled to be dismantled in 2013. Cantwell and Larsen are urging the House to adopt language on a critical Coast Guard bill that would postpone the decommissioning of the Polar Sea icebreaker until a new heavy duty icebreaker is built. The Coast Guard Reauthorization Act for Fiscal Years 2012 and 2013 (HR 2838) passed the Senate by unanimous consent on September 22 and the House in late 2011. The Senate version includes a Cantwell-written amendment that would postpone the decommissioning of the Polar Sea icebreaker until a new heavy duty icebreaker is built. The Polar Sea is currently docked in Seattle and is scheduled to be dismantled in 2013. Scrapping the Polar Sea would leave the United States with only one operational icebreaker, the Healy, which only has medium icebreaking capability. Vigor Shipyards is currently refitting the nation’s second heavy duty icebreaker, the Polar Star, which has spent years in ‘caretaker’ status. “Icebreakers protect America’s interest in the Arctic and support shipbuilding jobs in Washington state,” Cantwell said. “The need for icebreakers grows every year, and we need to keep the icebreaker Polar Sea at sea where it belongs. Representative Larsen and I will continue to work to protect our fleet of icebreakers and the jobs that depend on them.” “The Arctic will be the Northwest Passage of the 21st century, and the United States needs icebreakers to secure our interests in the region,” said Larsen, Ranking Member of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. “Maintaining an icebreaker fleet protects American commerce and our national security, and creates hundreds of jobs right here in the Puget Sound. We should not cede this region to international competitors. Sen. Cantwell and I are working hard to make sure Congress passes this bill to protect American icebreakers and American jobs.” Cantwell has been the leading advocate in the Senate for the nation’s icebreakers while the Administration and Congress consider all options to fulfill the nation’s growing need for them. In June, she worked with Senators Mark Begich (D-AK) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) to secure an agreement with the Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard to postpone the scheduled June dismantling of the Polar Sea through the end of 2012. Larsen has led efforts in the House of Representatives to protect the icebreaker fleet. As the ranking Democrat on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, Larsen has convened hearings and authored legislation to protect the icebreakers. He is currently negotiating with Congressional leaders to pass language protecting icebreakers in the House. The Coast Guard’s icebreaker fleet is based and serviced in Seattle. Refurbishing a large icebreaking vessel like the Polar Star can take roughly five years and employ upwards of 300 workers. Building a new vessel can take eight years to ten years and employ more than 1,000 workers. The melting polar ice caps have opened new passageways through the Arctic ice and created new opportunities for trade and international commerce. Emerging resource development in the Arctic is also bringing up additional environmental concerns and increasing the importance of vessels capable of operating in sea ice. Icebreakers are also key for scientific research critical to understanding global climate change. Historically, these vessels have also helped resupply the McMurdo Station, the main U.S. station in Antarctica on the southern tip of Ross Island. However over the last few years the United States has been forced to contract foreign icebreaking to deliver supplies to the station.
10.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed an agreement that will secure more than 600 jobs at Alcoa Intalco Works in Whatcom County. Larsen has worked closely for over a decade with negotiators between Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and Alcoa to secure the new 10-year power agreement for the Ferndale plant. “A decade’s worth of work has turned into another decade of job security for workers at Intalco and economic growth for Whatcom County,” Larsen said. “I have been working to keep Intalco running for 12 years because I know how important this facility is for the 625 employees, their families and all of Whatcom County. “Throughout the negotiations, I have urged the parties to stay at the table and do what was needed to reach a fair agreement. I thank BPA, Alcoa and the Machinists for working in good faith through all the ups and downs. “A 10-year agreement will allow Alcoa to make significant capital investments in its facilities to increase the efficiency of its already strong operation. It provides job security and ensures that Intalco will remain a cornerstone of Northwest Washington’s manufacturing economy. “This is a victory that all of Whatcom County shares in.” ###
09.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Homeless and at-risk teens in Northwest Washington will have housing and supportive services thanks to $528,400 in new federal grants, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. The grants to Cocoon House in Everett and Northwest Youth Services in Bellingham will support the housing and transitional programs designed to help runaway, homeless and at-risk teens. The grants were made this week by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “We must do everything we can to make sure homeless, runaway and at-risk teens are safe and have help getting back on their feet,” Larsen said. “I applaud the continued efforts of both Cocoon House and Northwest Youth Services to end youth homelessness and to provide a stable foundation for youth throughout Northwest Washington.” For more information on these grants, visit: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb/grants.
09.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $2.5 million in federal grants to three Northwest Washington tribes to assist victims and enhance public safety. The U.S. Department of Justice grants will go to the Tulalip Tribes, Nooksack Indian Tribe and Lummi Nation. “These federal dollars will go directly to improving safety in our tribal communities and providing care for victims,” Larsen said. “Our tribes are working hard to improve safety in their communities, and these grants are an important source of support.” Lummi Nation will receive two grants made possible by the Violence Against Women Act of 2005. These grants will provide civil legal support for Native women who are subject to violence and engage men in the fight against domestic violence and sexual assault. Larsen has been pushing to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act and extend its full protections to tribal communities. “I am pleased the Lummi Nation will be able to use the Violence Against Women Act to curtail domestic violence,” Larsen added. “The Violence Against Women Act has saved thousands of women’s lives and has made sure that domestic abusers meet justice. We have an opportunity to strengthen that law now, extending its protections to vulnerable tribal, LGBT, and other marginalized communities. I will keep working to make sure Congress passes this important legislation.” A summary of the grants follows. For more information on specific grants, call (202) 225-2605. Tulalip Tribes $497,546 – Tribal Youth Program Nooksack Indian Tribe $465,763 – Tribal Youth Program Lummi Nation $998,562 – Corrections and Correctional Alternatives Program $300,000 – Engaging Men in Preventing Sexual Assault, Domestic Violence, Dating Violence, and Stalking Grant Program $298,717 – Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program
09.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Fifteen members of Congress, led by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, have introduced a bill to combat voter suppression efforts across the country. The America Votes Act of 2012, H.R. 6419, will allow voters to sign an affidavit attesting to their identity if they do not have the identification documents required at their polling place. A fact sheet on the bill is available here. The bill is cosponsored by Larsen and Reps. Mike Honda (CA-15), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Gwen Moore (WI-04), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), James Moran (VA-08), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Gregory Meeks (NY-06), Xavier Becerra (CA-31), Donna Edwards (MD-04), Bob Filner (CA-51), Elijah Cummings (MD-07), John Lewis (GA-05), Hansen Clarke (MI-13) and Sam Farr (CA-17). “The America Votes Act of 2012 is a commonsense bill that protects the ability of American citizens to exercise their democratic right to vote,” said Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. “There are more recorded instances of exploding toilets and shark attacks than there are of in-person voting fraud. The story of our nation is one of extending the right to vote irrespective of race or gender. We must not allow the United States to move backward to our dark history of voter intimidation and suppression.” In the past two years, 11 state legislatures have passed new voter ID laws or measures to enhance existing laws. As many as one in four African-American voters, more than one in six Hispanic voters, and about one in ten eligible voters overall do not possess a current and valid government-issued photo ID. Several independent analyses of elections have shown that in-person voter fraud is a nonissue. “Efforts to deny any voter the right to cast a ballot are offensive to us all,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings, MD-07. “I am proud to join Rep. Larsen in supporting the America Votes Act of 2012 to help ensure that the restrictive voter ID laws on the books in 33 states will not succeed in suppressing the votes of people of color and young students. Extensive and credible research has shown that such voter ID laws are unnecessary and place an additional burden on the elderly and poor who now have to acquire new IDs.” “In our great democracy, there is nothing more sacred than a citizen’s right to make their voice heard at the ballot box, and we are all committed to protecting the integrity of the electoral process,” said Rep. Mike Honda, CA-15, Chair Emeritus of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. “Unfortunately, despite the Republican Party’s Constitution-centric platform, Republicans across the nation are introducing Voter ID Laws that are prohibiting access to the ballot for minorities, the elderly and young people who have been, and continue to be, historically disenfranchised. Voter ID laws far too often stem from xenophobia and it is estimated that 5 million eligible voters will be needlessly disenfranchised this election season. The America Votes Act is a pragmatic solution that creates a more inclusive process by allowing citizens to sign a legally binding affidavit that upholds process of voting, while allowing eligible citizens to vote without having an ID on hand. We must not turn voters away from the polls because of what they look like or where they come from or what language they speak, and we must not restrict individuals from access to our democracy. I hope our Republican colleagues will join us in this effort.” “Given the lack of evidence of voter fraud in our nation, it is clear the recent crop of voter ID laws does more to suppress the rights of voters than to truly safeguard our voting system,” said Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, II. “For this reason, I am proud to cosponsor the America Votes Act of 2012, which will protect the fundamental freedom to vote where it has been put in jeopardy.” “The right to vote is a bedrock of who we are as Americans,” said Rep. Allyson Schwartz, PA-13. “As more and more states put up needless and harmful roadblocks to voting, we have a responsibility to ensure there is a process in place to make sure that every eligible voter can have their say at the polls.” “The America Votes Act of 2012 is sensible and timely legislation that combats voter suppression efforts seen in states across the country, and ensures the integrity of our elections process,” said Rep. Donna Edwards, MD-04. “I am proud to join Congressman Larsen in this effort as it is imperative that we protect one of our most fundamental, constitutional rights – the right to vote. I hope our Republican colleagues recognize that this bill offers an opportunity to protect our elections without prohibiting access to voters at the ballot box.” “Congress must take immediate action to protect Americans’ ability to exercise their right to vote,” said Rep. Hansen Clarke, MI-13. “The American people fought hard for the right to vote and won it through a strong and unwavering commitment to justice. The America Votes Act of 2012 is a commonsense measure to preserve one of our most fundamental rights, and I am proud to support it.” Downloads » America Votes Act of 2012 - Bill Text» America Votes Act of 2012 - Fact Sheet
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today helped lead passage of a S. 3245, a bill that will spur investment and job creation in Northwest Washington. The bill includes a three-year reauthorization of the immigrant investor EB-5 program, which Larsen has championed in the House of Representatives. Larsen introduced similar legislation to permanently reauthorize the program last year. “I worked hard to keep these investment dollars flowing into the United States because I have seen firsthand how hundreds of people in Northwest Washington have gone back to work thanks to this program,” Larsen said. The bill passed today has already passed the Senate and now goes to President Obama for signing into law. Larsen has worked closely with EB-5 Regional Centers in Whatcom and Snohomish counties to bring investments and jobs to Northwest Washington. The Whatcom Opportunities Regional Center has used the program to generate $34 million in investment to create more than 800 good local jobs. Everett’s PathAmerica is using EB-5 financing to build an indoor farmer’s market and a college building in Everett. “The EB-5 program is a real three-fer,” Larsen added. “It’s a win for American workers, who benefit from thousands of new jobs. It’s a win for the taxpayer, because it does not add one penny to the national deficit. And it’s a win for the United States, because it helps us compete on a global scale.” The EB-5 program allows qualified foreign investors who make major investments in the United States that create or save at least ten full-time jobs to seek visas. The program, first established in 1990, has been continued as a short-term pilot program and had been slated to expire at the end of this month. Local leaders using the EB-5 program to create jobs hailed Larsen’s leadership on the issue. “The Association to Invest in the USA and the Whatcom Opportunities Regional Center applaud the leadership of Representative Rick Larsen in helping to achieve a three year reauthorization of the EB-5 Regional Center Pilot program,” said David Andersson, president of both the Association to Invest in the USA and the Whatcom Opportunities Regional Center. “This important economic development Program has resulted in $34 million of much needed foreign direct investment into Whatcom County. " “Congressmen Rick Larsen’s effort to extend the EB-5 program is invaluable to our national and local economy,” said Lobsang Dargey, president of PathAmerica. “With his help and the help of Senator Maria Cantwell, PathAmerica is developing a $53 million project in Everett which will include a 120 hotel rooms, 220 upscale apartments and a 50,000 square foot year around indoor farmers market with a community kitchen. This project will create over 1,000 direct and indirect jobs within the next two years. PathAmerica is also planning to invest in other areas such as the aerospace sector, education and multifamily housing.” Larsen spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives Tuesday, urging his colleagues to pass the bill. His full statement is below. Larsen Urges House to Pass Bill That Will Create Jobs in Northwest WashingtonSeptember 11, 2012 Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of S. 3245, which would, in part, reauthorize the EB-5 visa program for three years. This EB-5 program will create good American jobs. Last year I worked with Senator Leahy to write H.R. 2972, the Creating American Jobs Through Foreign Capital Act. That legislation would have reauthorized the EB-5 program permanently. While the bill before us today extends the program for only three years, it is still an important job creator that we must pass. The program allows qualified foreign investors who invest in the U.S. and create or save at least 10 full-time American jobs, to seek U.S. visas. This program brings overseas capital to the U.S. to create jobs for people in my District and across America. There are two projects in Everett, Washington, currently being financed through the EB-5 program. One is a college building that if this bill is not passed, our area will lose this building and the opportunities associated with it. The second investment is one for building and housing a regional farmers market, a project that has been in the works and is almost done. This project will help local farmers regionally and create jobs. If this bill is not passed, this project, which is set to be finished soon, will not be completed and all finance and investments will be lost. In another part of my district, in Whatcom County, the local EB-5 center has leveraged more than $34 million from immigrant investors to create more than 800 good local jobs. The EB-5 program is a real three-fer. It’s a win for American workers, who benefit from thousands of new jobs. It’s a win for the taxpayer, because it does not add one penny to the national deficit. And third it helps the U.S. compete on a global scale. The U.S. EB-5 visa program is one of more than 20 similar programs run by other important growing economies like Hong Kong, New Zealand, Australia and Singapore. Our economy cannot afford to do without these investments or these jobs. If we don’t keep this road open for foreign investment into the U.S., that investment will choose another country’s road. Congress must extend the EB-5 program so that we continue creating new jobs at a time that we need them most.
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for a bill to maintain government operations through March 2013. The continuing resolution reflects a bipartisan agreement between Congress and the administration, and will prevent a government shutdown at the end of this month. “By passing this bill, we are making sure that thousands of people stay on the job,” Larsen said. “Construction workers can keep working on repairing our roads, bridges and highways. Scientists can continue their vital medical research uninterrupted. And veterans and seniors will keep receiving the benefits they are due. “This funding bill is consistent with the tough spending caps that Congress put in place with the Budget Control Act. Congress must start doing a better job at passing regular appropriations bills instead of stopgap funding measures like this. But passing this bill is the right thing to do to prevent a game of brinksmanship over the threat of government shutdown.” “I am disappointed that this bill continues full funding for operations in Afghanistan through 2013. I believe it is time to fully transition military operations to Afghan security forces and bring our own troops home.”
08.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Frank LoBiondo, today called on the administration to protect American jobs in the event that the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is tapped to alleviate pressure on oil prices. Larsen, the ranking member of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, and LoBiondo, the chairman of that subcommittee, told top administration officials that they should adhere to Jones Act requirements that shipments between U.S. ports be carried on U.S. flagged vessels. The representatives wrote in response to recent news reports that the administration is considering tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in response to rising gas prices. The letter, below, was sent to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, and Department of Energy Secretary Steven Chu. August 30, 2012 Dear Secretaries Napolitano, LaHood and Chu: We are concerned by news reports that the White House is "dusting off old plans" for a potential release of oil reserves to dampen rising gasoline prices and prevent high energy costs from undermining the success of Iran sanctions. We hope that the administration is not contemplating the release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) without the adequate notice and consultation of Congress. We urge you to meet requirements under the Jones Act to transport SPR oil on U.S. flagged ships should you decide to release reserves. On June 27, the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation convened an oversight hearing to review the administration’s 2011 decision to release oil from the SPR, and specifically, to examine the administration’s decision to grant waivers from the U.S. coast wise laws to allow SPR oil to be transported on foreign-flagged tankers between U.S. ports. This controversial decision to waive the Jones Act was viewed by many members as an unwarranted slight to U.S. carriers and seafarers. As such, the SPR release drew a bipartisan rebuke from Congress. During the hearing, the consensus was that these types of waivers should not happen again. Department of Transportation Deputy Secretary John Porcari openly recognized the important lessons learned during the 2011 drawdown. He acknowledged that new legislative requirements Congress has imposed will not only ensure better coordination and improved procedures for the planning for future SPR releases, but will also “provide additional opportunities for Jones Act carriers.” It may make sense to reconsider options to release SPR oil reserves in light of the shutdown of Gulf Coast drilling operations due to Hurricane Irene and rising gas prices. However, we were very disappointed to first learn of the administration’s renewed interest in this option from a media report, and not directly from the administration, especially considering Mr. Porcari’s stated pledge to work closely with the Congress on such decisions. At a time when far too many Americans remain unemployed, priority must be given to addressing the needs of our own maritime workers. Congress has sent a clear signal to the administration that it fully expects any future transport of SPR oil to be carried on U.S. built, owned and crewed vessels. Should the administration decide to release SPR reserves, we look forward to working with you to uphold the longstanding tenets of the Jones Act to ensure that the transport of this oil results in jobs for U.S. mariners and business for U.S. carriers, just as the law requires. We appreciate your response and look forward to working with you to ensure that jobs created from any SPR release belong to Americans. Sincerely, Representative Rick Larsen Ranking Member Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Representative Frank LoBiondo Chairman Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised $5.8 million in federal funding for ferries in Northwest Washington. The U.S. Department of Transportation grants will fund infrastructure and passenger service improvements. “In Northwest Washington we know that ferries are a critical part of our national transportation system,” Larsen said. “Like too much of our aging infrastructure, our ferry system needs investment. These grants will create jobs and help make sure that folks who rely on ferries are traveling safely and efficiently.” The details of the grants are as follows: Skagit County – $1,200,000 – Guemes Ferry Dolphin Replacement San Juan County – $600,000 – Lopez Terminal Trestle Pavement Rehabilitation Whatcom County - $400,000 – Gooseberry Point Docking and Mooring Improvements Washington state - $900,000 – Replace public announcement and general alarm systems Washington state - $700,000 – Create an announcement system using display screens to keep hearing-impaired passengers informed Washington state - $2,000,000 – New power assemblies to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions for up to seven ferries Washington ferries will receive more funding in future years thanks to a provision that Larsen successfully included language in the recently enacted transportation bill. More information on that legislation can be found here. The funds come through the Department of Transportation’s Ferry Boat Discretionary Program. For more information on the program, visit https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/discretionary/fbd2012info.htm.
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called for a comprehensive farm bill and voted against H.R. 6233, a bill that would strip important agricultural and conservation programs while reinstating some disaster relief funding.“Instead of passing a comprehensive farm bill that farmers in Northwest Washington and across the country need, House Republicans decided to pass a face-saving disaster relief patch before going home,” Larsen said. “The Senate passed a robust bipartisan farm bill that House leaders have refused to let us consider. This habit of short-term extensions and patchwork legislating must end.“This bill robs Peter to pay Paul—and Peter is Washington state. I voted against the bill because it would cut deeply into agricultural and conservation programs that Northwest Washington farmers need. We can reinstate these critical disaster relief programs at the same time as meeting our nation’s agricultural needs. House Republicans should follow the Senate’s lead and let us work together on a strong bill that meets our country’s agricultural needs.”
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting for a plan to extend middle class tax relief and against a Republican proposal that would have raised taxes on the middle class and cut taxes for those making more than $1 million a year.“The stakes of this debate could not be clearer. The plan I voted for would make sure all middle-class Americans get to keep their tax cuts, creating certainty for families who are still struggling to recover. The plan I voted for extends vital tax credits for college students and working parents. The plan I voted for cuts the deficit, by finally ending the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. The plan I voted for is about fairness and fiscal responsibility.“To their credit, Republicans have made it clear where they stand: shoulder-to-shoulder with the wealthiest 2 percent. They showed today that they would rather let everyone’s taxes go up if they can’t protect their friends in the top 2 percent. They want higher taxes on teachers, machinists and members of the military if Warren Buffet and the Koch brothers don’t get a huge giveaway.“We tried the Republican way before. It hasn’t worked. Where’s the prosperity they promised?“For all of their talk about cutting the deficit, Republicans showed today they will not put their money where their mouths are. Their plan would balloon the deficit by handing the wealthiest 2 percent a tax giveaway that they don’t need, and that will cost future generations billions to pay off.”
07.31.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $4.8 million in federal grants for affordable housing and economic development in Snohomish County. The U.S. Housing and Urban Development grants will fund housing projects, emergency homeless shelters, and other efforts to expand economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents.“These grants will create local construction jobs and help low-income families in Snohomish County keep a roof over their heads,” Larsen said. “When people have the basics—a safe home, access to good education, and critical support services—they have the ability to seek better work and improve their futures. Local programs like these help create opportunity while creating a better community for all of us.”The grants will be made as follows:City of Everett:$770,643 Community Development Block GrantSnohomish County:$2,352,522 Community Development Block Grant$241,799 Emergency Shelter Grant$1,448,636 HOME GrantWashington state will receive an additional $20,731,960 for statewide programs.For more information on these grants, visit: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/grants.
07.31.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a more than $91,000 federal grant for affordable housing and economic development in Anacortes. The U.S. Housing and Urban Development grant will fund affordable housing and expand economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents.“This grant will create local construction jobs and help low-income families in Anacortes keep a roof over their heads,” Larsen said. “When people have the basics— a safe home, access to good education, and critical support services—they have the ability to seek better work and improve their futures. Local programs like these help create opportunity while creating a better community for all of us.”Anacortes will receive a $91,326 Community Development Block Grant. Washington state will receive an additional $20,731,960 for statewide affordable housing programs.For more information on these grants, visit: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/grants.
07.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement congratulating Oak Harbor native Marti Malloy on her bronze medal judo win at the Olympics in London today.“Marti’s fierce performance on the mat representing Oak Harbor and the United States gives us all great reason to be proud. Just remind me not to cross her,” Larsen said. “Marti’s a trailblazer, earning the second-ever Olympic medal for the U.S. women’s judo team. I join all of Northwest Washington in cheering her accomplishment.”
07.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the Navy’s decision to redeploy an EA-6B Prowler squadron to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. The Navy informed Larsen of the decision to initiate an environmental assessment survey, thereby starting the process to bring the Star Warriors squadron, VAQ-209, to Whidbey within the next 18 months.“The Navy’s decision to bring the Star Warriors to Whidbey Island is one more sign of the importance of Whidbey Island to the nation’s national security strategy,” Larsen said. “I welcome the new Prowler squadron, whose pilots, support crew and their families will find a good and friendly home in Oak Harbor. The Star Warriors have a long and distinguished history, most recently serving our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan. They will join a professional aviation community that works hard every day to provide security to our nation.”The relocation of the Star Warriors will bring 4 to 5 aircraft, 30 officers and 190 enlisted personnel to Whidbey Island. The Star Warriors are currently based in at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland.“The importance of the close relationship between Oak Harbor and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island cannot be overstated,” Larsen added. “Pentagon leaders respect the city’s strong advocacy for the base, and that advocacy is a key reason why the future of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island is secure.“I am keeping pressure on the Navy to make sure they follow through on their commitment to bring the P-8A Poseidons to Whidbey Island. With its location making Whidbey an ideal base for Asia-Pacific and Arctic operations, and with the community’s strong support, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will remain an important asset both locally and for our nation long into the future.”
07.27.2012	New Federal Report Shows That Pacific Northwest Ports Are at Competitive Disadvantage Compared to Canadian Ports WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, says a Federal Maritime Commission report released today shows that Pacific Northwest ports are losing business to Canada and called for action to address the root causes of the cargo diversion. Larsen is the top Democrat on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction on the issue in the House of Representatives. “Pacific Northwest ports are facing an invisible blockade that is sending our business to Canada,” Larsen said. “The Federal Maritime Commission’s report shows we need to invest in our infrastructure to make our ports more competitive and take a hard look at reforming the inflexible Harbor Maintenance Tax which is putting our ports at a disadvantage. Larsen led a letter with other members of Washington state’s Congressional delegation in September requesting the report. That letter is available here. “With this report in hand, I will work with my colleagues to reform the Harbor Maintenance Tax so we can get more U.S.-bound cargo coming through our ports and get longshoreman, truckers and shippers back to work,” Larsen added. As the report shows, a large number of U.S. imports from Asia are processed through Canadian ports before moving to the United States through cross-border rail. In meetings with port officials throughout the Pacific Northwest, Larsen has been told that the Harbor Maintenance Tax creates a significant competitive disadvantage for U.S. ports compared to Canadian ports. Canada does not have a comparable tax, which charges shippers $1.25 per $1,000 worth of cargo. The report also notes that Canada and Mexico have a “strong national port policy and infrastructure strategy.” Larsen has been a strong advocate of a national freight policy and infrastructure investment as a way to create jobs and lay the foundation for economic growth. The commission concluded that shippers that use non-U.S. ports do not violate U.S. laws, treaties or Federal Maritime Commission regulations.
07.24.2012	SEAS Act to Repeal Section 100124 of Highway BillWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D, MD-07) and Jeff Landry (R, LA-03) today introduced the Saving Essential American Sailors (SEAS) Act, H.R. 6170, which would ensure American food aid is transported by American workers. The bill repeals Section 100124 of the highway bill, MAP-21. Additional original co-sponsors include Congress members Nick Rahall (D, WV-03), Rick Larsen (D, WA-02), Bennie Thompson (D, MS-02), Colleen Hanabusa (D, HI-01), Cedric Richmond (D, LA-02), Michael Grimm (R, NY-13), Tim Bishop (D, NY-01), and Candice Miller (R, MI-10).Section 100124 reduces the amount of U.S. food aid required to be carried on U.S.-flagged ships from 75 percent to just 50 percent, jeopardizing up to 2,000 American maritime jobs. The Maritime Administration (MARAD) estimates that enactment of Section 100124 could cause the U.S.-flagged fleet to lose 16 vessels and $90 million in annual revenues.“The number of vessels in the U.S. flag and the percentage of U.S. cargoes carried on American vessels have continued to fall in recent decades. Currently, there are fewer than 100 U.S.-flagged vessels in the foreign trade, and these vessels carry less than two percent of U.S. cargoes,” said Cummings. “If we allow a further decline in this fleet and the loss of additional mariner jobs, we risk leaving our economy and indeed our military dependent on foreign-flagged, foreign-owned vessels manned by non-U.S. citizens – a situation that would be intolerable.”“This is what happens when Washington rushes bills; we don’t fully debate them or understand their ramifications. Section 100124 will mean that American taxpayers will be paying foreign workers while American mariners sit on the beach,” said Landry. “I hope my colleagues from both sides of the aisle will join us in fighting for our American workers and quickly pass the SEAS Act.”In a May 2011 letter, Commander of the United States Transportation Command General Duncan McNabb wrote that “over 90 percent of all cargo to Afghanistan and Iraq has been moved by sea in U.S. Flag vessels” and noted that U.S. cargo preference laws and the Maritime Security Program have helped in “ensuring the continued viability of both the U.S. Flag fleet and the pool of citizen mariners who man those vessels.” McNabb continued, “the movement of U.S. international food aid has been a major contributor to the cargo we have moved under the cargo preference law that our U.S. commercial sealift industry depends on. Any reductions will have to be offset in other ways to maintain current DoD sealift readiness.”“This ill-conceived change in our cargo preference laws would literally ship American jobs overseas,” said Rahall. “The SEAS Act provides a sensible solution to correct this flaw in the surface transportation bill. It is a job-protecting measure that merits smooth sailing through Congressional consideration and enactment.”“The SEAS Act will undo a short-sighted provision that dealt a huge blow to job creation at a time when the maritime industry is already hurting,” Larsen said. “Congress should be doing everything it can to create jobs. The SEAS Act will reverse this backward step that could cost our mariners thousands of jobs. I am committed to working with my colleagues to undo this short-sighted provision and protect these important jobs.”
07.23.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $1.6 million in federal funding for three new hybrid-electric buses for the Whatcom Transportation Authority.“We can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. These new hybrid-electric buses will cut down on fuel costs and emissions, all while giving Whatcom residents a better ride,” Larsen said. “Investments in public transportation like this are critical to create jobs and keep our economy moving forward.”The $1,337,512 grant is from the Federal Transit Administration’s State of Good Repair program. For more information, visit: https://www.fta.dot.gov/13248.html.
07.23.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $1.3 million in federal funding for the replacement of Snohomish County Community Transit’s Kasch Park Operating Base roof.“We can’t have a big league economy with little league infrastructure,” Larsen said. “Investments in public transportation like this are critical to create jobs and keep our economy moving forward.”The $1,337,512 grant is from the Federal Transit Administration’s State of Good Repair program. For more information, visit: https://www.fta.dot.gov/13248.html.
07.13.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced an $850,551 Early Head Start program grant for the Tulalip Tribes. The Department of Health and Human Services grant will provide comprehensive health, nutrition and education services for infants, toddlers, pregnant women and their families with incomes below the federal poverty level.“Every child born here should have the same opportunity to succeed,” Larsen said. “This Early Head Start grant will help low-income families in the Tulalip Tribes make sure their young children have the health care, education and nutrition they need to prosper in school. Studies show that the earlier children receive this support, the better they will do in the future.”For more information on Head Start programs, visit: https://transition.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ohs.
07.10.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement in advance of the House of Representatives’ vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act.“Congress needs to be doing all it can to create jobs. Instead, House Republicans are forcing yet another vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This political stunt will create exactly zero jobs—just like the last 30 times they have tried to roll back vital patient protections with repeal votes.“It is hard to understand what Republicans mean when they talk about ‘repealing and replacing Obamacare,’ when the only alternative they have come up with is Romneycare. Maybe Republicans are just upset that they are not getting the credit they deserve for coming up with the individual mandate in the first place.“When it comes to health care, there’s no going back to 2009 or 1789. Congress passed this law. The President signed it. And two weeks ago, the Supreme Court deemed it Constitutional. It is time for House Republicans to move on and work across the aisle to boost the economy and create jobs across America.“Repealing the Affordable Care Act would mean taking away health care for 17 million kids with preexisting conditions. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would mean that seniors in Northwest Washington would pay hundreds of dollars more each year for their prescription medications. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would mean 6.6 million young adults across the country would be kicked off their parents’ health insurance.“Northwest Washington is already seeing the improvements from the Affordable Care Act. Seniors in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties who are in the Medicare donut hole have saved more than $800 on their prescription medications so far this year alone. Nearly 33,000 kids and 140,000 adults in our area now have health insurance that covers preventive care like check-ups and cancer screenings without co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles.“With an unemployment rate of 8.3 percent in Washington state, Congress should be exploring every option to get people back to work. While Republicans are carrying on with their political sideshow, Democrats are working to pass legislation to bring jobs home from overseas, invest in a 21st Century workforce and build a strong foundation for economic growth.”
07.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today cosponsored legislation to bring jobs back to the United States by rewarding companies that insource jobs and closing loopholes for outsourcers. The Bring Jobs Home Act would create a 20 percent tax credit for costs associated with moving a production line, trade or business back to the United States and would close loopholes that benefit companies that outsource jobs. The Washington State Labor Council held a rally in support of the bill today in Everett.“I stand with the workers in Everett today who want to bring jobs home,” Larsen said. “I am supporting the Bring Jobs Home Act because passing it would mean more jobs right here in Northwest Washington. We need to reverse the incentive that encourages companies to ship their jobs overseas, and instead push them to invest more here. It is time to stop outsourcing and start insourcing.“Northwest Washington is home to some of the most skilled manufacturing workers of the nation. I know our workers will prosper on a level playing field. This bill will help them do just that.”
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Two programs that provide payments to counties that have federally managed land will be extended thanks to a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for today. The Secure Rural Schools and Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) programs will be extended as part of the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012.“Secure Rural Schools and PILT are lifelines to Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish counties,” Larsen said. “Dollars from Secure Rural Schools and PILT go directly into classrooms, police forces, fire departments and roads. Local government leaders and school administrators across Northwest Washington regularly tell me how critical these payments are so they can provide critical services to their residents.”“This has been a key partnership with all three Commissioners, Congressman Rick Larsen, and our Senators to maintain support for these programs through our federal lands,” said Skagit County Commissioner Ken Dahlstedt. “We commend Congressman Larsen for his continuing leadership in ensuring critical funding support for schools, roads, Firewise, and many other important programs in Skagit County.”The Secure Rural Schools and PILT programs compensate local governments for the lost ability to develop or use the resources of federally managed lands. Both programs will be extended for one year. In 2012, Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish counties received the following payments under the programs:Whatcom CountySecure Rural Schools: $1,285,807 PILT: $1,453,396Skagit CountySecure Rural Schools: $694,256PILT: $843,863Snohomish CountySecure Rural Schools: $775,412.76PILT: $715,396
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $49,378 job training grant for San Juan County. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development grant will be used by the San Juan County Economic Development council to provide job skills training in supply chain management and marine technical training and certification.“I am pleased to see these federal dollars going to work in San Juan County,” Larsen said. “This training will help workers in the San Juan Islands get the skills they need to find new jobs or advance in their current jobs.”The grant will be combined with $110,612 in local funding. For more information on the USDA Rural Development, visit www.rurdev.usda.gov.
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Reps. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., and Don Young, R-Alaska, today hailed the inclusion of critical ferry program funding changes in the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012. The bill changes ferry funding from a grants-based system to a mandatory formula-based program that will provide guaranteed funding for ferry systems. “This bill is a huge win for states like Washington and Alaska that have so many residents who depend on safe and reliable ferry service to stay connected,” Rep. Larsen said. “Ferries are a critical part of our national transportation system. This bill ensures ferries will receive reliable funding and that the Washington State Ferry System will not have to compete with other programs around the country for the funding it needs. We must invest in our ferry system to create good jobs, promote long-term economic growth and help ensure that the folks who rely on ferries are traveling safely and efficiently.” “In states like Alaska and Washington, ferry systems often serve as our highways,” said Rep. Young. “This Highway Bill builds on the achievements we made with SAFETEA-LU. I am especially pleased that this bill places great importance on route miles – this one provision will ensure that Alaskan ferries receive the level of funding they deserve. I want to thank my good friend Congressman Larsen for his continued support and work on this issue.”
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting for the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012. Larsen is a senior member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and has fought hard for a long-term transportation bill. The bill, which includes transportation funding and a deal to prevent the doubling of the student loan interest rate for undergraduate students, passed on a 373 to 52 vote. The bill includes more than $1.3 billion for highways and $464 million on transit systems in Washington state through September 2014. “This bill creates jobs now and expands opportunity in the future,” Larsen said. “We cannot have a big league economy with a little league infrastructure. This bill makes substantial investments in our roads, bridges and highways, and maintaining our transit systems, and will create or retain tens of thousands of construction jobs in Northwest Washington. This bill will do more to create jobs through public investment than any other piece of legislation that Congress has passed since 2010.” “I have been fighting hard for a long-term, robust transportation bill because I know that in Washington state, transportation means jobs. This is not a perfect bill, but it sustains critical funding and delivers on Washington state’s priorities. It invests in our foundation to spur future economic growth.” Larsen spoke on the House floor about the bill this morning. The text and video of that speech are available here. “I am pleased that many of the provisions I worked hard to support are included in this final bill,” Larsen added. “Washington state residents will benefit from new guarantees of funding our ferry system and from an expansion in the ways that Washington state can invest in major highway projects that create jobs and improve the flow of traffic. “The bill guarantees funding for ferry programs, mirroring a proposal that I put forward in my U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act. This means that Washington State Ferries will have predictable and secure funding every year rather than having to compete with other programs around the country. Federal investments in our ferries will improve safety and efficiency for passengers. Ferries are a critical part of our transportation system, and this bill makes sure they are not overlooked. Below is a summary of the transportation programs included in the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012 of particular importance to Washington state. Ferries The bill will provide improved resources for the Washington State Ferries system, by moving to a formula-based program based on the number of vehicles, passengers, and miles traveled. That three part formula mirrors Larsen’s proposal in his U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act (H.R. 1789). For the first time, funding will be guaranteed for the ferry program. Freight Policy The bill creates a new national freight policy that requires the designation of up to 30,000 miles as a national freight network to expedite trade and movement of goods and commodities. States that prioritize freight infrastructure investments will receive larger federal matching funds for those projects. Washington state is particularly well poised to take advantage of this program. Use of Private Capital for Transportation Projects The bill expands the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA), a program that provides federal backing for states and local governments that use private loans to pay for transportation projects. With TIFIA backing of up to $1 billion of projects, Washington state will have more options for ways to fund projects like the SR 520 bridge replacement. Highway Safety The bill strengthens highway safety provisions, including new efforts to prevent distracted driving, restrictions for unsafe bus companies, and streamlined safety programs to encourage states to get tough on drunk driving. Flood Insurance The bill extends the National Flood Insurance Program for five years until September 30, 2017 and makes important reforms to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s premium rate structure to strengthen the program’s financial footing.
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—College students in Northwest Washington will not pay higher rates on their student loans next year thanks to a bill that Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, voted for today. The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012 includes a provision to stop a scheduled interest rate hike on subsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students. Without the bill passed today, interest rates on new loans would have doubled from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent effective next week. Larsen spoke on the House floor about the bill this morning. The text and video of that speech is available here. “This bill sends a clear message to college students everywhere: America will invest in you,” Larsen said. “I have been fighting to stop this rate hike because I know the devastating effects that increased college costs are having on students. “Access to higher education is a public good that provides significant benefits to all of us. College students need the best training to get the best jobs. Whether at a two-year technical school or community college, or at a four-year university, higher education is the path to better jobs and a stronger economy. “This is personal to me. My parents did not have the opportunity to go to college. But they worked hard to make sure that I and my seven sisters and brothers had the opportunity to go to college. I want to make sure that every student has that same opportunity to get a high-quality college education without breaking the bank. “America’s success does not happen by accident. Our success happens because we invest in our people, their skills, and their future. This bill does that, and I am proud to have supported it.
06.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, delivered the following floor statement today on the Surface Transportation Act of 2012 which includes transportation funding and extends the low rate on federal student loans for college students. Mr. Speaker, later today the House will take up a bill that is key for jobs now and for opportunity for the future. First, we cannot have a big league economy with little league infrastructure. The transportation bill will do more to create jobs through public investment than any other piece of legislation that this House has passed in the last 18 months. It puts thousands to work repairing roads, bridges and highways, and maintaining our transit systems. Second, this bill creates opportunity for the future by stopping a devastating interest rate hike on loans students take to pay for college. College affordability is a necessary step for creating opportunity for the future. The bill sends a clear message to college students everywhere: America will invest in you.
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, delivered the following floor statement today following the Supreme Court’s ruling to uphold the Affordable Care Act. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to declare that the Supreme Court ruling on the Affordable Care Act affirms there is no going back to health care of 2009 or even to health care of 1789. Improvements to health care are taking root right now in this country, and that progress must continue. The Supreme Court’s decision today is a welcome victory for middle class families, and bolsters the necessary changes taking place in health care today. Now we must keep Medicare sustainable and affordable by closing the prescription drug donut hole and cracking down on fraud. Now we must make sure middle class families have diverse options for high quality, affordable health care. Now we must ensure that we meet the needs of Northwest Washington’s seniors, veterans and families. Northwest Washington is already seeing improvements. Seniors in the 2nd District who are in the donut hole have saved more than $800 on prescription medications so far this year. More than 173,000 people in Northwest Washington state now have health insurance that covers preventive care without co-pays or deductibles. It is time to move forward on health care and today America took a great step. ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the Supreme Court decided to uphold the Affordable Care Act.“With regards to health care, there’s no going back to 2009 or 1789,” Larsen said. “Improvements to our health care are taking root right now, and that progress will continue for Northwest Washington and the rest of America. The Supreme Court’s decision today to uphold the Affordable Care Act is a welcome result for middle class families across Northwest Washington and will bolster the necessary changes taking place in health care.”“We need to keep our focus on improving health care for all Americans. Improving health care means shifting the focus of health care from volume to value, improving the quality of care instead of just growing the quantity of care.“Improving health care means keeping Medicare sustainable and affordable by closing the prescription drug donut hole and cracking down on fraud that bilks taxpayers.“Improving health care means making sure middle class families have a diverse array of options that all offer a high standard of affordable care.“Improving health care means we need to meet Northwest Washington’s needs so seniors can see the doctors they prefer, veterans have access to the specialty care they need, and families have preventive care that fits their budgets.“Northwest Washington is already seeing the improvements from the Affordable Care Act. Seniors in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties who are in the Medicare donut hole have saved more than $800 on their prescription medications so far this year alone. Nearly 33,000 kids and 140,000 adults in our area now have health insurance that covers preventive care like check-ups and cancer screenings without co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. The Court’s ruling today means those improvements will endure.“Now that the Supreme Court has ruled, it is time to move forward and make sure that we have health care that meets Northwest Washington’s needs.”
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today about the House of Representatives’ planned vote on the contempt resolution for U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder.“This vote is nothing but a politically-motivated attack on the Obama administration under false pretenses,” Larsen said. “Republicans should drop their transparent politicking and let Congress get to work on creating jobs for Northwest Washington and the rest of America.“Controversial ‘gunwalking’ programs started under President Bush. President Bush’s Attorney General knew about the programs and did nothing to shut them down. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives later developed Operation Fast and Furious as the latest of such programs without approval. When Attorney General Holder found out about it, he shut it down.“Attorney General Holder and the Justice Department offered Congressional investigators unprecedented access to internal documents. Congressional Republicans refused to take yes for an answer. They pursued a partisan investigation and refused all Democratic requests for witnesses and hearings. They did not even agree to hear from the former head of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives who was responsible for the programs.“Congress has to deal with real problems. Too many Americans are still out of work. We need to get the economy growing faster and adding jobs. Republicans have failed to come up with a comprehensive jobs plan, so they are resorting to this political sideshow to try to gin up support at the polls. It will not work. Americans want us to work together to create jobs.”
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged Congress and the Administration to support American maritime jobs by fully enforcing the Jones Act. At a hearing of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, on which Larsen serves as the ranking Democratic member, Larsen made the case that any oil released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve should be carried on U.S.-flagged vessels.Last year the Obama administration granted waivers to the Jones Act for oil released from the reserve in response to the conflict in Libya. As a result, less than 1 percent of the oil released from the reserve was carried by U.S. tankers.Larsen’s opening statement at the hearing is below. A webcast of the hearing is available here.Rep. Rick Larsen Opening StatementRanking Member, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime TransportationMr. Chairman, thank you for convening this morning’s hearing to examine how best to uphold the integrity of the Jones Act when future shipments of oil are released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, or SPR.The Jones Act exists for good reason. It sustains a vibrant and strong domestic maritime industry. It creates job opportunities for U.S. mariners. It underpins U.S. maritime defense policy.As you know, the Ranking Democrat Member of the Full Committee, Congressman Nick Rahall, and I are both strong supporters of the Jones Act. On behalf of Mr. Rahall and I, I want you to know that we very much appreciate your quick action to schedule this morning’s hearing as we requested in our April 24 letter to you and Chairman Mica. Thank you.Unfortunately, we missed such an opportunity to support the Jones Act last year. In response to oil shortages attributed to civil unrest in Libya, the President initiated in June 2011 a draw down from the SPR for only the third time in its history. Regrettably, and contrary to longstanding policy under the Jones Act, U.S. tankers carried less than 1 percent of oil from the SPR. Instead, the administration authorized 44 separate waivers of the coastwise laws to allow foreign tankers to transport this oil. The administration denied available U.S. carriers this valuable and vital business.U.S. industry has available capacity to move U.S. strategic oil reserves on U.S. flagged ships, putting U.S. mariners to work. I don’t know of anyone on this committee who agreed with these controversial waivers, and Congress has responded accordingly to uphold the integrity of the Jones Act.First, Congress passed language to prohibit the use of funds to issue future Jones Act waivers for SPR draw downs for the balance of this fiscal year until the administration has taken adequate steps to ensure the use of U.S.-flagged vessels.Second, the House adopted an amendment offered by Congressman Cummings and Congressman Landry that strengthens information and notice requirements for any future Jones Act waivers.These actions are warranted and helpful, but they are limited in their scope and duration.Consequently, I have concluded that we need to look squarely at the waiver process itself to ensure that future SPR releases benefit both our domestic maritime industries and the overall U.S. economy. With this thought in mind, it is my intention this morning to not look backward, but forward.No one is satisfied with the status quo. Clearly, we need a constructive dialogue on how best to release SPR reserves. Now is the time to begin that effort.By working together with you Mr. Chairman, I contend that such a dialogue could produce a body of sensible, practical reforms to the waiver process; reforms that work for the U.S. economy, provide opportunities for our domestic maritime industries, and put U.S. seafarers to work.Those are outcomes upon which we can agree, and I look forward to beginning that dialogue this morning.The Jones Act exists for good reason. Let’s use it to good effect.
06.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced legislation to save the Green Mountain Forest Fire Lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness. “The Green Mountain Lookout adds to the Glacier Peak Wilderness,” Larsen said. “The lookout is an integral part of Glacier Peak Wilderness, important for both recreation and the region’s history. The message of this bill is simple: The Green Mountain Lookout stays on Green Mountain.” The Green Mountain Lookout Heritage Protection Act amends the Washington State Wilderness Act of 1984 to protect the operation and maintenance of the Green Mountain Lookout and prevents the U.S. Forest Service from removing the lookout. Earlier this year a U.S. District Court ordered the U.S. Forest Service to remove the lookout after Montana-based Wilderness Watch sued the Forest Service for using a helicopter and machinery to repair the Green Mountain Lookout. The lawsuit is still in the courts, pending continuing action. “I believe strongly in preserving our environment, and I have fought hard to protect wilderness areas in Wild Sky, the Skagit River Valley and in the San Juans. The extreme view of a small minority in this matter fails to take into account the spirit of the law. The Green Mountain Lookout is one of the few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and was used during World War II as an early warning station for aerial attacks. “I am prepared to break through the partisan gridlock in Washington, DC, to pass this bill so that visitors to Glacier Peak Wilderness will long be able to enjoy the Green Mountain Lookout. Local organizations including the Snohomish County Council and the Darrington Historical Society, support maintaining the lookout. “The Darrington Historical Society has worked hard to help restore Green Mountain Lookout, and we appreciate Congressman Larsen's support,” said Darrington Historical Society Vice-President Scott Morris. “This lawsuit has wasted a lot of people's time and money, and it's time for Congress to step in and allow us to move on to more important things.”
06.25.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today following the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to reject the state of Montana’s campaign contribution spending restrictions.“The Supreme Court today compounded the problem it created with its Citizens United decision by preventing states from making their own decisions about how to finance their own elections. We have already seen the damaging effects of secret corporate money in elections around the country. This will only make the situation worse.“The decision today gives greater urgency to overturning Citizens United. I am a cosponsor of the DISCLOSE Act, which would bring much-needed transparency to election spending. And I am fighting for a Constitutional amendment that would declare that corporations are not people and they do not have the inherent right to spend freely to influence elections.”
06.25.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down major portions of Arizona’s controversial immigration law (SB 1070).“The Supreme Court today reaffirmed the Constitutional authority of the federal government to write and enforce immigration laws. One country cannot have 50 different sets of immigration laws. Federal law must be applied in an even and fair manner across the nation.“I am still concerned about the provision requiring law enforcement officials to check the immigration status of those they suspect may be in the country illegally. But the Court made it clear that this provision is still subject to review, and may do so if there is evidence that Arizona officials are using racial profiling to ask for immigration papers.“Congress must address comprehensive immigration reform in a way that bolsters our economy and treats immigrants humanely. I believe we can meet that challenge, and I will continue working with my colleagues to bring consistency and fairness to our immigration system.”
06.22.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has introduced legislation that will provide permanent protection to more than 95 acres of Samish Tribal lands in Skagit and San Juan counties. The Samish Indian Nation Homelands Act of 2012 (H.R. 5992) would put the land, currently owned by the Samish Tribe, into federal trust for the tribe. “This bill will help the Samish continue to build a solid foundation for economic growth, preserve vital community services, and give tribal members certainty about the Tribe’s future,” Larsen said. “By putting these lands into federal trust, we would protect vital services and economic centers for the Samish Tribe.” “This bill has earned the support of the Samish Tribe and city, county and state leaders,” Larsen added. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this bill to help ensure a more prosperous future for the Samish Tribe.” “The Samish Indian Nation is working hard to ensure that the future is bright for our people, including job opportunities for tribal members and our neighboring communities alike,” said Samish Indian Nation Chairman Tom Wooten. “Rep. Larsen has been a true partner in working with the Tribe to make this goal a reality for our Tribe and the communities the Tribe resides in. We deeply appreciate that he has introduced the Samish Indian Nation Homelands Act. The Tribe also appreciates and acknowledges the relationship it shares with the City of Anacortes, Skagit County, San Juan County, and the state of Washington for their collaboration with us on this legislation and for their friendship and partnership. Working together, we can revitalize the area we all share in a way that allows for our next seven generations to grow and prosper for all that live here.” The legislation would take 95 acres of Samish-owned land on five parcels and place them in federal trust to be used by the tribe for community and economic purposes. Those parcels include a Head Start and Early Learning Center and the tribal administration complex in Anacortes, as well as agricultural land and salmon habitat in Skagit County. The language of the bill prohibits gaming on the land once it is taken into trust. It does not affect the rights of other tribes, including hunting and fishing on any lands. A map of the affected land is available here. The legislation has been endorsed by local leaders including the City of Anacortes Mayor and City Council, the San Juan County Council, the Skagit County Board of Commissioners, State Senators Mary Margaret Haugen and Kevin Ranker, and State Representatives Kristine Lytton and Jeff Morris. “The City of Anacortes and the Samish Indian Nation have a long history of partnering on issues affecting both governing bodies,” said Anacortes Mayor Dean Maxwell. “The City of Anacortes supports the Samish Indian Nation Homeland Act of 2012 which allows the Samish Indian Nation to convert five parcels into non-gaming trust status for housing, government and support services for the tribe.”
06.19.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $2.5 million in funding to help laid-off Lummi Nation fishing industry workers get jobs. The Department of Labor National Emergency Grant will provide training and employment services for 443 eligible workers who were laid off because of weakness in the sockeye salmon industry.“This grant will help hundreds of Lummi Nation fisherman get the training and help they need to get back to work,” Larsen said. “Investing in the skills and knowledge of these workers will put them in a better position to find jobs and help rebuild the local economy.”Today’s grant of $2,542,924 is in addition to an $847,644 award made in October 2010. National Emergency Grants expand training and employment programs in response to large, unexpected economic events that cause large job losses. For more information, visit: https://www.doleta.gov/neg/.
06.15.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security announced it will stop deporting some young illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and who have completed high school or served in the military. Larsen is a cosponsor of the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, which would provide a path to citizenship for such immigrants.“This is the humane and right thing to do, not just for the thousands of young immigrants who were brought to this country as children, but for our country, which benefits from their contributions to our society. I have been a determined cosponsor of the DREAM Act because I believe that young immigrants who were committed to their education or chose to serve in our military, and have broken no laws while they have been here, deserve to stay and continue contributing to our communities.“Earlier this year I met with students at Western Washington University who told me their personal stories of being young immigrants in our country. These are young people who are pursuing college degrees so they can help grow the economy and ensure a better future for all of us in Northwest Washington. These high-achieving students are exactly the kind of young adults we want to attract to our country, not drive away.“I applaud the administration’s decision, and I maintain my full support for the DREAM Act. Congress must still pass the DREAM Act to provide a legal path to citizenship for these young people.”
06.15.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the announcement of more than $3 million of federal funds for public safety, housing and other vital services in Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties. The funds, through the Department of Interior’s Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, are used to compensate for losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands in the counties.“These federal dollars are a lifeline to our counties that keep teachers in classrooms, put cops on the beat and make sure our roads are in safe repair,” Larsen said. “Counties with federally managed lands lose out on revenue they would otherwise get. Government officials and school administrators across Northwest Washington regularly tell me how critical these payments are to providing these critical services to our communities.”Counties are awarded funding based on acreage of federal lands and population. The payments to the counties are as follows:Skagit County: $843,863Snohomish County: $715,396Whatcom County: $1,453,396For more information on the PILT program, visit https://www.doi.gov/pilt/summary.html.
06.12.2012	WASHINGTON—The Everett area mail processing facility will not close in 2012, preserving next-day mail delivery for tens of thousands of Northwest Washington residents, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. After putting pressure on the U.S. Postal Service, Larsen received commitment today that the Everett facility’s closure will be postponed to January 2013 at the earliest. “This is a critical win that gives us breathing room as we continue to make the case for maintaining permanent full mail service to Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Reliable next-day mail service is critical for thousands of residents and businesses across our region. “While I am pleased we have secured this commitment, the Postal Service has made it clear they intend to keep moving forward with closure of the facility next year. I am committed to working with the community to keep the pressure on the Postal Service to protect these jobs in Everett and fight for efficient mail service for all of Northwest Washington.” Larsen has been a persistent advocate for the Everett facility which serves residents in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties. Without the Everett facility, mail would be sorted in Seattle and mail delivery to most residents would take longer. Most recently Larsen encouraged the Postmaster General to postpone the closure so that the August primary election and November general election are not disrupted. The U.S. Postal Service letter to Larsen is available here. ###
06.11.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to support a Presidential designation of a National Monument in the San Juan Islands. Larsen has introduced legislation that would create a National Conservation Area in the San Juan Islands. In his letter to Salazar today, Larsen endorses a dual-track approach to protection of the San Juan Islands through Congressional or Presidential action.The text of the letter follows:June 11, 2012Dear Secretary Salazar:As you know, I have sponsored legislation (H.R. 2912) to create a National Conservation Area within Bureau of Land Management parcels in the San Juan Islands in my district. BLM manages approximately 1,000 acres in these islands which are important wildlife habitat and are critical for the natural beauty that brings thousands of tourists to the islands every year. I appreciate your recent visit to this area to talk with my constituents about ways to protect these areas and your willingness to listen to local stakeholders’ input on my legislation.While I continue to push for the timely passage of legislation to protect these areas, partisan opposition to the movement of any public lands legislation may slow the legislative process. As such, I ask that you recommend to the President that he use his authority under the Antiquities Act of 1906 to designate these areas as a National Monument. I understand that there are opportunities for such a designation that would meet many of the objectives of my legislation, such as improved public input into how these areas are managed. This “dual track” approach has been endorsed by stakeholders within local and state government, including the San Juan County Council, the Skagit County Board of Commissioners, and Governor Gregoire. I believe such an approach will best serve the conservation needs of these important areas and encourage you to join me in supporting such an approach.Thank you for your continued interest in the San Juan Islands. I look forward to continuing to work with you on preserving these areas.Sincerely,Rick LarsenUS CongressmanWashington, 2nd District ###
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $3,389,599 federal grant to modernize Friday Harbor Airport’s taxiway, drainage and safety systems. The Federal Aviation Administration grant will be awarded to the Port of Friday Harbor. “This investment in the Friday Harbor Airport will create jobs and help keep San Juan residents connected,” Larsen said. “Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure like this create jobs, improve safety, and provide the base for future economic growth. I am fighting for a robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this that create jobs and improve our community.” ###
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $2,851,514 federal grant to rehabilitate Bellingham International Airport’s ramp and aircraft parking area. The Federal Aviation Administration grant will be awarded to the Port of Bellingham.“This investment in Bellingham International Airport will create jobs and help keep Whatcom County moving,” Larsen said. “Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure like this create jobs, improve safety, and provide the base for future economic growth. I am fighting for a robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this that create jobs and improve our community.”###
06.06.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in opposition to a motion from Rep. Paul Broun, GA-10, that would call for a cut of more than $30 billion of federal transportation funds. The House is expected to vote on the motion this week.“I strongly oppose the Broun motion to cut a third of the transportation funding,” Larsen said. “We need to be focused on creating jobs and investing in our future by repairing and building our roads, bridges, highways, ferries and transit systems. Every $1 billion we spend on transportation creates 47,000 jobs while laying the foundation for greater economic growth. With hundreds of thousands of construction workers out of work, this motion is exactly the opposite of what we should be doing. Congress needs to pass a long-term construction transportation bill to restore our infrastructure and get people back to work.”###
06.05.2012	WASHINGTON—The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to approve a bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a part of the Wild and Scenic River System. The bill, H.R. 1740, would protect 14.3 miles of Illabot Creek, a tributary of the Skagit River and a vital habitat for threatened salmon and other wildlife, while maintaining recreational access for hunting and fishing. The bill passed on a voice vote. “Passing this bill brings us one big step closer to preserving vital wildlife habitat in Skagit County and keeps us on the path to recovery of important salmon spawning waters in the Pacific Northwest,” Larsen said. “I am proud to have broken through the partisan gridlock in the House of Representatives to pass this bill for the residents of Skagit County.” Larsen spoke on the House floor today, urging his colleagues to support the bill. The text and video of that speech is below. “Illabot Creek is a beautiful part of our community and an integral part of the Skagit Valley ecosystem,” Larsen added. “By preserving this habitat we are ensuring that Skagit County residents and visitors will be able to continue hunting, fishing and hiking in the region. When we support vital salmon spawning waters like this, we protect the fishing industry jobs that depend on healthy fish populations.” Sen. Patty Murray has introduced, and Sen. Maria Cantwell has cosponsored, companion legislation in the Senate. That bill, S. 888, was approved by the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in January and now awaits a vote by the full Senate. “This is an important step toward preserving Illabot Creek and making sure future generations can access the tremendous natural beauty of one of our state’s most amazing natural spaces,” said Senator Patty Murray. “I’ve been proud to work with Representative Larsen, Senator Cantwell, and the local community to write this legislation. I am very glad it passed the House today, and I am going to keep working to move it through the Senate so that it can be signed into law.” The bill has the support of hunters, farmers, environmentalists, local and state governments in the region. “Not only is Illabot Creek a great place to fly fish but as a spawning ground it is essential for the continued health of the Skagit River fishery,” said Patrick O'Hearn, member and past-president of the Fidalgo Fly Fishers in Skagit County. “Knowing what this protection means for the river, and having been part of the work that Congressman Larsen and the community has put into this bill, I am happy to see it successfully pass the House.” “Passage of this bill is great news for Skagit County,” said Skagit County Commissioner Sharon Dillon. “I thank Congressman Larsen and Senator Murray for their efforts. The protection of Illabot Creek is crucial for the vitality of the Skagit River’s health and the habitat of the wildlife that depend on it.” “Illabot Creek is one of the most prolific salmon and trout streams in Washington and ground zero for the Skagit’s famous bald eagle concentration,” said Bob Carey, Director of Strategic Partnerships for The Nature Conservancy in Washington. “We appreciate Congressman Larsen’s commitment to its protection—a goal that has won the support of local government, power utilities, the recreation industry and environmental organizations alike.” Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. Illabot Creek provides crucial spawning habitat for wild Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout, all threatened species, and is home to numerous other species including bald eagles that roost along the creek. The Skagit River watershed supports one of the largest concentrations of wintering bald eagles in the lower 48 states. Because of the abundance of salmon and the high quality of habitat, Illabot Creek is the center of foraging activity and supports two communal night roosts. One roost area is within the existing Skagit Wild and Scenic River corridor. The second is within the proposed Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River designation. This abundance of bald eagles is a major attraction in Skagit County, and supports tourist activity, including the Upper Skagit Bald Eagle Festival. Congress created the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System in 1968 to preserve certain rivers of outstanding value in a free-flowing condition for future generations. This bill would prohibit dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of the creek and establish a protected corridor extending one-quarter mile from the ordinary high-water mark on both sides of the river. Designating Illabot Creek as a National Wild and Scenic River will complement other local habitat protection and salmon and trout recovery efforts that are underway in the Skagit basin. According to The Nature Conservancy, Illabot Creek and the surrounding area are home to the following species: Chinook salmon, Chum salmon, Coho salmon, Pink salmon, Sockeye salmon, Steelhead trout, Bull trout, Cutthroat trout, Marten, Roosevelt elk, Western toad, Bald eagle, Band-tailed pigeon, Blue grouse, Kestrel, Marbled murrelet, Northern spotted owl, Olive-sided flycatcher, Osprey, Pacific slope flycatcher, Peregrine falcon, Rufous hummingbird, Townsend’s warbler, Western wood peewee, and the Willow flycatcher. Rep. Rick Larsen Floor Statement on Bill to Protect Illabot Creek in Skagit County June 5, 2012 &amp;amp;lt;br&amp;amp;gt;Mr. Speaker I rise to support the passage my bill, H.R. 1740, and urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this important measure. I want to thank Chairman Hastings, Chairman Bishop and Subcommittee Ranking Members Markey and Grijalva for their help in getting this important bill to the floor. I have the honor of representing one of the most scenic parts of the country, Washington state’s Second District. The Second District is home to the North Cascades Mountains and the beautiful San Juan Islands. It’s also home to some of the best fishing in the country, both commercially and recreationally. Salmon and groundfish stocks are beginning to recover all around the Northwest. Part of the reason this is happening is we’ve begun to protect the places that are important for fish habitat. When we protect these places, we protect the jobs that come from the fishing industry. This preservation is the catalyst to introducing the legislation before us. Illabot Creek travels from the Glacier Park Wilderness Area to the upper Skagit River, falling 7,000 feet during its journey. The water of Illabot Creek provides the optimal conditions for wild Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout—all species listed as threatened. This legislation will designate 14.3 miles of Illabot Creek as Wild and Scenic, protecting these species while ensuring that hunting and fishing and other recreational activities continue. Protecting this area has the support of local hunters, farmers, environmentalists, anglers, and local and state governments in my district. I want to thank Senator Patty Murray for introducing this bill’s companion in the Senate, and I hope that body will soon take up this bill as well. I appreciate Minority Whip Hoyer and the Chairman and Ranking Member’s support for bringing this legislation to the floor, and I urge my colleagues to support its passage and protect this important body of water.###
06.04.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $4.15 million federal grant to modernize the Skagit County Regional Airport runway. The Federal Aviation Administration grant will be awarded to the Port of Skagit.“This investment in the Skagit County Regional Airport will create jobs and help keep Skagit County moving,” Larsen said. “Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure like this create jobs, improve safety, and provide the base for future economic growth. I am fighting for a robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this that create jobs and improve our community.”###
06.04.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the city of Arlington will receive a $194,635 grant for safety enhancements at Arlington Municipal Airport. The Federal Aviation Administration grant will be used to purchase an emergency generator and additional land to improve runway approach safety.“This investment in Arlington Municipal Airport will improve safety for pilots, passengers and Arlington residents,” Larsen said. “Smart investments in our transportation infrastructure like this create jobs, improve safety, and provide the base for future economic growth. I am fighting for robust transportation funding so we can continue investing in projects like this that improve our community.”###
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, tonight voted to protect vital worker protections that protect the middle class. During consideration of a military construction spending bill, Larsen voted to ensure unionized workers can compete for federal construction contracts and that federal contracts pay local prevailing wages.“House Republicans showed tonight they are as committed as ever to their attacks on union workers. These unwarranted efforts to strip well-established worker protections are the opposite of what Congress should be doing. We should be trying to rebuild our economy by investing in our workers and our infrastructure. These efforts would be a blow to the middle class, preventing private unionized construction workers from competing for federal contracts.“Rather than continuing these baseless attacks on working families, we need to be focused on investing in our infrastructure, expanding job opportunities and growing wages for all Americans.”The House of Representatives considered two amendments to an appropriations bill for military construction projects. The first removed a measure that would have directed government agencies to require contractors for large-scale federal construction projects to negotiate or participate in labor agreements with unions. That amendment passed. The second amendment would have stripped Davis-Bacon requirements, which require federal construction projects to pay wages at the prevailing level in the region of the project. That amendment failed.
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, tonight voted for a bill that will direct more than $6 million to investments at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. The Military Construction/VA Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 2013 was approved by the House of Representatives on a 407 to 12 vote.“Naval Air Station Whidbey Island is not only an integral part of our community, it is a strategically important base for our nation,” Larsen said. “Investments in Naval Air Station Whidbey Island like this demonstrate our continued commitment to the base.”Naval Air Station Whidbey Island will receive $6,272,000 for an EA-18G Flight Simulator Facility to be constructed in 2013.
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today continued his efforts to prevent the closure of the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility. The facility serves residents in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties. The U.S. Postal Service has announced plans to close 140 distribution facilities as early as this summer, but will postpone closure of some facilities during the election season. In a letter to the Postmaster General today, Larsen cites the August primary election and Washington’s vote-by-mail system as reasons to make sure the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility is not on the summer closure list. The text of the letter follows: May 30, 2012 The Honorable Patrick R. Donahoe Postmaster General and Chief Executive Officer United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington DC 20260-0010 Mr. Donahoe: I continue to urge reversal of the decision to close the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility. Further, I urge you to ensure the Everett facility is not included on the August closure list. As you mentioned in your letter, consolidation efforts will be suspended during the period between September 1, 2012, and December 31, 2012 due to election and holiday seasonal mailing demands. As Washington residents vote entirely by mail, timely mail processing is critical to ensuring the integrity of our election process. The postmark deadline for ballots in Washington state’s primary election is August 7, and the Secretary of State is required to certify to returns by August 24. This means that mail service in August must not be interrupted or delayed. I am particularly concerned about the potential impact of a closure process in August on ballots submitted by my constituents deployed overseas in our Armed Forces, or living in rural areas such as eastern Whatcom and Skagit counties, and in the San Juan Islands. I ask that you postpone the closure of the Everett facility as I continue to work with my colleagues to pass legislation that will help restore the Postal Service’s financial footing while maintaining high quality service for my constituents in Northwest Washington. Sincerely, Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Washington State, 2nd District
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, has introduced a Congressional resolution to honor and celebrate the centennial of the birth of Senator Henry M. “Scoop” Jackson. The resolution (House Concurrent Resolution 125) is cosponsored by Reps. Jim McDermott, WA-07, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, WA-05, Dave Reichert, WA-08, and Adam Smith, WA-09.“Scoop was a patriot, and a champion of democracy and human rights around the world. More than anything, he worked hard to improve the place he always called home: Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Scoop’s legacy serves as a reminder each and every day of why I went to Congress, and his example guides my commitment to our home.”Before being elected senator, Jackson represented Washington’s 2nd Congressional District in the House of Representatives. Jackson, who died in 1983, would have been 100 years old on May 31.The text of the resolution follows:H. CON. RES. 125: Celebrating the centennial of the birth of Senator Henry M. `Scoop' Jackson.Whereas the 100th anniversary of the birth of one of Washington's most revered and favorite sons, Henry Martin Jackson, on May 31, 2012, will be celebrated by friends and well-wishers in Everett and other Snohomish County communities, and in other towns and neighborhoods throughout his beloved State of Washington;Whereas the centennial of the birth of this great patriot and public servant, United States Senator Henry M. `Scoop' Jackson, should be honored by true friends of human rights and democracy nationwide and all across the globe;Whereas Congressman and later Senator Scoop Jackson, in more than four decades of unswerving public service until taken from family and country by his untimely death on September 1, 1983, established a steady and respected grasp of subjects ranging from public-lands and other environmental issues, to hydroelectric-power and other energy concerns, to national-security and other public-safety matters;Whereas Scoop Jackson, born in the Everett home of his Norwegian-immigrant parents, Peter and Marine Jackson, was elected Snohomish County prosecuting attorney in 1938, at the age of 26, just two years after he graduated from the University of Washington School of Law;Whereas earning a strong reputation as a dedicated foe and prosecutor of illegal gambling and bootlegging activities, he was elected to the United States House of Representatives, for the Evergreen State's Second District, in 1940;Whereas the then-Congressman Jackson enlisted in World War II until he and other national legislators were recalled to their congressional duties and responsibilities by President Franklin Roosevelt;Whereas Scoop Jackson was re-elected five times to his congressional seat, won election to the United States Senate in 1952, and was re-elected five times to his Senate seat;Whereas Mr. Jackson was a tireless voice for nuclear deterrence, from production of fissionable material, to the nuclear submarine program, and the land-based ballistic missile program, he was a leading supporter of nuclear parity with the Soviet Union;Whereas throughout his career, Jackson remained a steadfast supporter of a strong military, placing principles over politics to ensure the United States Armed Forces maintained their global stature;Whereas an ‘environmentalist’ many years before the word became part of the United States lexicon, Scoop Jackson wrote the groundbreaking National Environmental Policy Act, and championed legislation preserving such enormous and unspoiled Washington treasures as North Cascades National Park and the Alpine Lakes Wilderness;Whereas Scoop Jackson sponsored the Endangered American Wilderness Act, the Redwoods National Parks Act, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, the Federal Lands for Parks and Recreation Act, the Youth Conservation Corps Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the National Trail System Act, the National Historic Preservation Act, the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act, and the National Wilderness Act;Whereas Scoop Jackson also sponsored legislation establishing the Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, which was later named in his honor, to work toward medical and other scientific programs and advancement that help members of the United States Armed Forces and civilians alike; andWhereas Henry M. and Helen Jackson raised two children, Anna Marie Jackson Laurence and Peter Jackson: Now, therefore, be itResolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That Congress celebrates the centennial of the birth of Senator Henry M. `Scoop' Jackson.###
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today participated in the White House bill-signing ceremony for a bill to reauthorize and expand the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. Larsen helped lead passage of the bill in the House of Representatives after introducing similar legislation earlier in the year. “With President Obama’s signature on this bill, thousands of workers in Northwest Washington can breathe easier knowing that this job-creating bank will still be there to support their jobs,” Larsen said. “The Ex-Im Bank supports thousands of jobs at small and large manufacturers across Northwest Washington. Enactment of this law keeps America open for business. “Over the last few months I have met with workers and small business owners in our region who rely on the Ex-Im Bank to sell their products overseas and create jobs here at home. It does this without costing taxpayers a single dime. In fact, it is an investment that pays dividends back to the U.S. taxpayer, helping to reduce our deficit by $1.9 billion in the last five years alone.” Larsen took photos at the ceremony, including photos of President Obama with Sharon O'Hara, a member of the Boeing 787 team. O’Hara was on stage during the bill-signing, and was mentioned by the President during his speech in Everett in February. The photos are available here: https://on.fb.me/KHYhHe. In Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, the Ex-Im Bank has helped finance the sale of more than $22 billion in exports from 13 companies, including eight small businesses, in the last five years. Larsen recently met with three companies in Whatcom County that use the Ex-Im Bank to sell their products overseas. He also met with workers at the Boeing Everett factory. Boeing is one of the largest recipients of Ex-Im financing, which uses the Bank to sell aircraft to overseas customers. The Everett Herald recently called the Bank “an unequivocal success.” The law enacted today expands the Bank’s lending cap by $40 billion to $140 billion and extends the charter to October 2014. The Bank’s previous charter was due to expire on May 31. This law is very similar to the bill Larsen introduced. House Minority Leader Steny Hoyer credited Larsen’s advocacy for the bill when it passed the House of Representatives: “Congressman Larsen’s tireless advocacy was instrumental in securing a deal to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which helps exporters like Boeing and others compete overseas and keep jobs here in America,” said House Minority Leader Steny Hoyer. “This agreement will help further our recovery and make it easier for businesses in Washington state and across the country to reach new markets and expand their operations, which in turn will help put more Americans back to work.” ###
05.21.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, Sen. Patty Murray and Sen. Maria Cantwell today asked the U.S. Department of Agriculture to use all legal means to protect the Green Mountain Lookout in Glacier Peak Wilderness. In the letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, the members of Congress stress the importance of the Green Mountain Lookout to the community and urged against the removal of the lookout.The text of the letter is below:May 21, 2012The Honorable Tom VilsackSecretaryUS Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave., S.W. Washington, DC 20250Dear Secretary Vilsack:As you know, a group based out of Montana recently filed a lawsuit (Wilderness Watch v. Iwamoto and US Forest Service) against the US Forest Service (USFS) for using a helicopter and machinery to repair Green Mountain lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness within the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest. As a result, a U.S. District Court ordered the USFS to remove the lookout. We urge you to ensure that this is not the final result of this lawsuit, and that you use all legal means in order to protect the Green Mountain Lookout.Many of our constituents have told us how important the lookout is to the community. The lookout is an important part of the region, and reflects a unique and vanishing part of the Pacific Northwest’s heritage. It is one of few surviving fire lookouts in the West, and only one of six such lookouts within a Wilderness area. It was also an early warning station during World War II to alert citizens to possible aerial invasion. The Washington State Trust for Historic Preservation named it one of the ten most endangered buildings last year, before the court made its decision. The Snohomish County Council, Darrington Historical Society, and numerous local citizens all support protection of the lookout.We appreciate that the USFS has filed a recent motion to remand the court’s ruling in order to assess whether the lookout can remain without violating the National Environmental Policy Act or the Wilderness Act. If you believe there are other actions that the USFS can take to ensure the future of the lookout, we urge you to use them without delay. Thank you for your consideration and for your continuing work to protect this important piece of our state’s history.Sincerely,Rick Larsen Patty Murray Maria CantwellU.S. Congressman U.S. Senator U.S. Senator###
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting against the National Defense Authorization Act.“I have supported the National Defense Authorization Act for the past 11 years, because I know how important it is to make sure our troops receive the equipment and support they need. I wish I could continue that record now. But this bill makes the wrong choices. It expands the debt. It heightens the threat of nuclear escalation. And it tramples on our Constitutional civil liberties.“House Republicans decided to disregard the bipartisan Budget Control Act and add $8 billion to defense spending over the cap. Rather than maintain our commitment to cutting the deficit, this bill balloons it.“I am disappointed the House rejected the bipartisan amendment to ensure due process for all those arrested on American soil and end mandatory military detention. Congress had an opportunity to stand up for our Constitutional rights and make it clear to all Americans that we stand by due process and our judicial system. The civil liberties afforded us by the Constitution do not make us weaker—they make us stronger. We must make sure that military detention in the name of national security is not abused at the expense of our civil liberties.“In perhaps the most amazing move, House Republicans refused to allow a vote on setting a timetable to bring our troops home from Afghanistan. Instead they pushed through a requirement that our troops stay in Afghanistan until 2016, a position our top military leaders do not even support.“The House adopted, over my strong objection, an amendment that would put U.S. nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula. This irresponsible move would greatly imperil the security of the region. Instead of acting as a deterrent to North Korea, placing tactical nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula will only embolden the Kim Jung-un regime to develop their nuclear capabilities faster.“I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to improve this bill by eliminating these irresponsible and unsafe provisions. I want to make sure our troops have the resources they need overseas and here at home. I am open to voting for the final version of the bill if we successfully improve it. But for now I must vote against it.”
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for legislation that would ensure due process for anyone detained on U.S. soil and eliminate mandatory military detention. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted for a bipartisan amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act authored by Reps. Adam Smith, WA-09, and Justin Amash, MI-03. The amendment failed on a 182 to 238 vote. “Congress had an opportunity today to stand up for our Constitutional rights and make it clear to all Americans that we stand by due process and our judicial system,” Larsen said. “While we earned strong bipartisan support, I am disappointed that our amendment failed. I will work hard to make sure the language is included when the House and Senate negotiate the final bill.“The civil liberties afforded us by the Constitution do not make us weaker—they make us stronger. We must make sure that military detention in the name of national security is not abused at the expense of our civil liberties. The amendment I voted for would make sure that anyone detained on U.S. soil has the due process rights they are owed under the Constitution. It would also eliminate mandatory military detention and restore the federal courts as the appropriate jurisdiction for the prosecutions of suspected terrorists.“I have faith in both our Constitution and our federal courts. We cannot let the threat of terrorists and criminals compromise our values. Indeed, we must show the world that our values stand strong in the face of those who would try to attack us.”For more on the Smith-Amash Amendment, including a fact sheet about the legislation, visit: https://go.usa.gov/pCh. ###
05.17.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the U.S. Postal Service announced that it is moving forward with its plan to close up to 140 distribution facilities, including the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility which serves residents in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties.“Outrageous. I oppose the Postal Service’s misguided decision to move forward with the closure of distribution facilities, including the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility,” Larsen said. “I am not convinced that the closure of the Everett facility and consolidation of mail distribution will save the Postal Service money. It will certainly hurt service for tens of thousands of Northwest Washington residents, and those costs have not been adequately considered.”Larsen sent a letter to U.S. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe today urging him to reverse the decision. The text of that letter is below. Larsen is a cosponsor the Postal Service Protection Act of 2011 (H.R. 3591) which would help the Postal Service by eliminating the pre-funding requirements of the retirement benefits fund while placing restrictions on the closure of postal facilities and reducing services.“The postal workers in Everett deserve a full and fair consideration of these issues before the Postal Service moves forward,” Larsen added. “The Postal Service clearly must take steps to address its budget shortfall. But it should work with Congress as we develop legislation to make sure we keep high-quality mail service instead of moving ahead with drastic closures.“I know how important local, efficient next-day delivery is to people across Northwest Washington. I have been fighting to keep service at many of our rural post offices, and I am working with my colleagues to pass legislation that both ensures the financial footing of the postal service while preserving the mail service that so many Northwest Washington residents and businesses rely on."The text of Larsen’s letter to the Postmaster General is as follows:May 17, 2012The Honorable Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster General and Chief Executive OfficerUnited States Postal Service475 L’Enfant Plaza SWWashington DC 20260-0010Mr. Donahoe:I urge you to reverse the Postal Service’s recent decision to move forward with closures of distribution facilities, including the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility.I reiterate my great concern about the impact the consolidation would have on residents and businesses in Northwest Washington. The consolidation of services at this facility could end efficient mail turnaround for hundreds of thousands of my constituents in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, Island and San Juan counties, and would be a blow to the high standards of the United States Postal Service.I am not convinced that the closure of the Everett Area Mail Process Facility is financially sound. The decision does not adequately consider the added costs of processing the mail at another facility, nor do they consider the costs of maintaining the facility as a hub or for other uses.As you know, there are more than 300 employees at the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility who manage more than 1 million pieces of mail each day. Consolidation at this facility will mean that many of these dedicated workers will lose their jobs or have to relocate.I ask that you reconsider closing, or at least postpone the closure, of the Everett facility as Congress continues to consider legislation that will help restore the Postal Service’s financial footing while maintaining high quality service for my constituents in Northwest Washington.Sincerely,Rick LarsenU.S. RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd District
05.17.2012	Washington, DC— Today, the full, bipartisan Washington state Congressional delegation urged U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to select Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the KC-46A aerial refueling program. Following the Air Force’s release of its basing criteria on Monday, today’s letter is the latest effort by the delegation to lay out the exceptional assets Fairchild Air Force Base has to offer the new fleet. “Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well positioned to achieve global-level reach, especially to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation members wrote. “The base is a strategic staging platform, supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. We believe the recently announced strategic basing criterion situates Fairchild Air Force Base in a very competitive position. The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. The full text of the letter follows:The Honorable Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1690 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Secretary Donley:On behalf of the Washington State delegation, we would like to extend our appreciation for the service and sacrifice made by the men, women, and families of the United States Air Force. In honor of their effort and service, we applaud the recently released diligent, timely, and thorough strategic basing criteria for the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker - a set of criteria that is exceptionally important to this critical mission and Fairchild Air Force Base in our home state of Washington. Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well positioned to achieve global-level reach, especially to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater. The base is a strategic staging platform, supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. We believe the recently announced strategic basing criterion situates Fairchild Air Force Base in a very competitive position. Currently, Fairchild is home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. As we have previously illustrated, this association marries the best the active duty and reserve components have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. As you know, the Air Force also continues to recognize Fairchild Air Force Base’s assets and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. To that end, Fairchild already possesses much of the needed capacity to accommodate the new KC-46A aerial refueling tanker as the Air Force has already improved the 14,000 foot runway, invested in a new, state-of-the-art fitness center, and last month broke ground on a new wing command headquarters that will better integrate active-duty Airmen and Air National Guardsmen. Furthermore, Fairchild Air Force Base provides an exceptional quality of life for its Airmen and the local community has embraced the base. It is a strongly desired duty station and is the second most requested Air Force assignment in the United States. The Spokane community is an award winning, proud military community that embraces all military personnel, their families, and retirees and is worthy of hosting the KC-46A aerial refueling tankers. We ask you to keep us briefed as the strategic basing process continues and look forward to working with you to base the new KC-46A tanker fleet at Fairchild Air Force Base. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers U.S. Senator Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Representative Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler U.S. Representative Doc Hastings U.S. Representative Norm Dicks U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Dave Reichert U.S. Representative Adam Smith Cc: General Norton A. Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air ForceGeneral Raymond E. Johns Jr., Commander of Air Mobility CommandGeneral Craig R. McKinley, Chief of National Guard Bureau ###
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged his colleagues to strengthen the Violence Against Women Act. The House of Representatives today voted on a Republican bill to extend the Act, which was opposed by women’s advocacy groups, religious leaders, civic organizations and the White House because it weakens certain protections of current law and fails to extend protections to LGBT and tribal populations. Larsen, who voted against the bill, spoke on the House floor urging his colleagues to strengthen the bill. “The Violence Against Women Act has saved thousands of women’s lives and has made sure that domestic abusers meet justice,” Larsen said. “We have an opportunity to strengthen that law now, extending protections to vulnerable tribal, LGBT, and other marginalized communities. We must strengthen protections for victims, not strengthen abusers’ hands. Unlike the bipartisan Senate version, the bill the House considered today fails to make the improvements we need. “It is a shame that something as important as protecting victims of domestic violence has fallen into a partisan dispute. Passage of the Violence Against Women Act has always been bipartisan. We must set aside this partisan bill and move forward together to strengthen the Violence Against Women Act in a bipartisan manner.” In his floor statement, Larsen spoke about the importance of the International Marriage Broker Regulation Act provisions of the bill which he and Sen. Maria Cantwell successfully included in the 2006 reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. Larsen’s floor statement follows:Rep. Rick Larsen Floor Statement on the Violence Against Women Act In 2006, I along with Senator Cantwell made sure that the “International Marriage Broker Regulation Act” (IMBRA) was enacted as part of the last reauthorization of VAWA. IMBRA put regulations in place to protect foreign women brought here through the “mail order bride” industry, to keep them from falling prey to serial abusers. This law also made changes to the visa system to protect all immigrating fiancées and spouses from potential abusers, making sure they had critical information about whether their American visa sponsor had a violent history, and knew how to get help if they were abused. Pushing this legislation forward six years ago was important to me because a young woman named Anastasia King was found dead in my District. She had been strangled to death and buried in a shallow grave in 2000. Her husband had a domestic violence protection order issued against him from a previous wife. Indle King killed Anastasia because he wanted to get a new bride and didn’t want to pay for a divorce. The VAWA bill being considered in the House does not go far enough to strengthen the IMBRA protections that we established in 2006. It leaves out important amendments to IMBRA that passed in the bipartisan Senate bill, like putting penalties in place to keep a man like Indle King from simply lying about his violent history so as to lure yet another woman here to be abused and then discarded. The VAWA bill being considered in the House also undermines other protections in current law for abuse victims. We must use this reauthorization process to strengthen protections against abusers, not strengthen abusers’ upper hand. We must use this reauthorization process to reaffirm that VAWA’s protections are for all victims, including tribal women and LGBT individuals. So as we move ahead, I urge my colleagues not to let us fall back. We need to do more to protect victims, and we certainly cannot roll back protections in current law— that is unacceptable. We must speak for all of the silent voices of abuse. On their behalf, I urge you to oppose HR 4970. ###
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced new education and training opportunities for veterans, made possible through the VOW to Hire Heroes Act for which Larsen voted. The Veteran Retraining Assistance Program (VRAP), a joint initiative between the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Labor, will help train 99,000 unemployed veterans between the ages of 35 and 60 for new jobs in high-demand sectors.“This initiative is a real win-win for veterans and employers in Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “This program will help veterans get the extra training they need to succeed in growing sectors like aerospace manufacturing, and will help fill the gap for manufacturers that need qualified applicants. We owe a special duty to veterans to help them find a job after separating from the military. This program will help veterans train for and succeed at the jobs they deserve.”Veterans can apply for new benefits through the program to cover education costs for training for high-demand jobs for up to one year. While many educational benefits for veterans expire 12 years after veterans separate from the military, VRAP benefits could be used by veterans who no longer qualify for their original benefits.Larsen voted for the VOW to Hire Heroes Act, which was signed into law by President Obama in November 2011. The VOW to Hire Heroes Act also provides tax credits to employers that hire veterans.Veterans seeking more information on how to apply for VRAP benefits can visit www.benefits.va.gov/VOW, or call the Department of Veterans Affairs call centers toll free at 1-800-827-1000. Veterans may also access the VRAP application online at https://www.ebenefits.va.gov.Larsen’s office in Everett can help 2nd Congressional District veterans with working with the Department of Veterans Affairs to resolve benefits issues and other matters. Larsen’s Everett office can be reached at (800) 562-1385.###
05.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today urged his colleagues to support legislation to enhance civil liberties and eliminate indefinite military detention. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, called for a vote on an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act authored by Reps. Adam Smith, WA-09, and Justin Amash, MI-03.“The civil rights enshrined in our Constitution do not make us weaker—they make us stronger,” Larsen said. “We must make sure that military detention in the name of national security is not abused at the expense of our civil rights. I strongly support the Smith-Amash amendment which would make sure that anyone detained on U.S. soil has the due process rights they are owed under the Constitution. It would also eliminate mandatory military detention and make sure that prosecutions of suspected terrorists are carried out in our federal courts rather than in military tribunals.“I have faith in both our Constitution and our federal courts. We cannot let the threat of terrorists and criminals compromise our values. Indeed, we must show the world that our values stand strong in the face of those who would try to attack us.”For more on the Smith-Amash Amendment, including a fact sheet about the legislation, visit: https://go.usa.gov/pCh.
05.10.2012	Votes against Republican Sequester Replacement Reconciliation ActWASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted to preserve food aid for low-income families and protect senior services in a budget debate today. Larsen voted against a Republican bill that seeks to eliminate automatic cuts to defense spending and replace them with greater cuts to domestic spending. The bill, which passed the House on a 218 to 199 vote, would undo the bipartisan Budget Control Agreement signed into law last August.“House Republicans could not be more clear about where they stand. They want to shelter the richest Americans and let out-of-control spending continue at the Pentagon, all while cutting vital services for seniors, students and middle class Americans,” Larsen said.“The bill Republicans approved today would give the Defense Department a free pass while cutting Meals on Wheels for 1.7 million seniors, cancer screenings for hundreds of thousands of women, and reducing or eliminating food stamps for nearly 50 million of the most vulnerable Americans.“The ideological and stubborn support for unfettered growth in defense spending is as irresponsible as it is unnecessary. The Government Accountability Office recently reported that major defense programs had more than $44 billion in cost overruns last year. The Republicans now want to throw $8 billion more on top of that. We need to reshape the force for 21st century challenges, not just keep throwing good money after bad.“Virtually every member of Congress I know agrees that we should replace automatic spending cuts with a structured deficit reduction package. I have long advocated for a bold and balanced approach to cutting the deficit. That will include a mix of spending cuts in defense and domestic spending as well as increasing revenue through fairer tax rates for the highest earners and elimination of tax subsidies to oil and gas companies and big agribusiness. The Democratic budget that I voted for would preserve vital job-creating investments in our transportation infrastructure and maintain support for students to go to college and seniors and veterans to get quality health care.”###
05.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today issued the following statement on marriage equality following President Obama’s statement that he supports same-sex marriage.“President Obama today arrived at a belief that millions of Americans, including myself, share. Marriage is a civil right that all Americans—gay or straight—should be able to enjoy,” Larsen said. “I am proud to be from Washington, which has helped lead the way in extending marriage rights for all. I look forward to the day when every American is able to marry the person that they love.” Larsen advocated for the end of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell and is a co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would repeal the Defense of Marriage Act. ###
05.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today helped lead passage of a bill to reauthorize and expand the Export-Import Bank. Larsen introduced a bipartisan bill (HR 4302) to reauthorize the bank earlier this year, and has worked to persuade his colleagues to support reauthorization. The bank’s charter is currently set to expire on May 31. Larsen today spoke on the floor in support of HR 2072, the result of a bipartisan compromise between Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Majority Leader Eric Cantor. (Video here, audio here, full text below). “The Ex-Im Bank supports thousands of jobs in Northwest Washington. Passage of this bill keeps America open for business,” Larsen said. “It will allow us to expand our exports overseas while creating more jobs here at home. And it does all this without costing taxpayers a single dime. In fact it is an investment that pays dividends back to the U.S. taxpayer, helping to reduce our deficit by $1.9 billion in the last five years alone.” In Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, the Ex-Im Bank has helped finance the sale of more than $22 billion in exports from 13 companies, including 7 small businesses, in the last five years alone. “Over the last few months I have heard from hundreds of workers in Northwest Washington whose jobs rely in part on the Ex-Im Bank,” Larsen added. “Last week I met with small manufacturers in Whatcom County that use the Ex-Im Bank to sell their products overseas. The legislation we passed today will help workers across our region at these small businesses and at large companies including Boeing.” The bill, which passed today on a 330 to 93 vote, expands the Bank’s lending cap by $40 billion to $140 billion and extends the charter to October 2014. The bill passed today is very similar to the bill Larsen introduced. “Congressman Larsen’s tireless advocacy was instrumental in securing a deal to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which helps exporters like Boeing and others compete overseas and keep jobs here in America,” said House Minority Leader Steny Hoyer. “This agreement will help further our recovery and make it easier for businesses in Washington State and across the country to reach new markets and expand their operations, which in turn will help put more Americans back to work.” Ferndale-based Western Chemical uses the Ex-Im Bank to sell their fish health products overseas to customers in South America and Europe. CEO Steven Becker recently sent a letter to Larsen thanking him for his support of the Ex-Im Bank. In the letter, Becker wrote, “The Ex-Im Bank has been indispensable in allowing our business to grow to $2M in annual Washington state exports this year and $5 million next year and supports 25 full-time employees … Without the support of the Ex-Im Bank, our business would have surely faced stagnant or deflated revenue during the recent recession and continued to face one-sided, subsidized export arrangements abroad.” Rep. Rick Larsen Floor Statement on the Reauthorization of the Ex-Im BankMay 9, 2012 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to vote in favor of HR 2072, the Securing American Jobs Through Exports Act. The Export-Import Bank creates jobs. It reduces our trade deficit. And helps to lower our national debt. It is a tool that our manufacturers, both large and small, use to expand their sales to customers around the world so they can keep creating jobs here at home. In Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, the Ex-Im Bank has helped finance the sale of more than $22 billion in exports from 13 companies, including 7 small businesses, in the last five years. Last week I sat down with three businesses in Whatcom County that have used the Bank. They told me the Bank is a critical tool, without which they would not be able to sell overseas. The CEO of one of those companies, Western Chemical in Ferndale, Wash., which makes fish health products, told me the Bank has been, quote, “indispensable in allowing our business to grow to $2M in annual Washington state exports this year and $5 million next year and supports 25 full-time employees.” The Bank also supports our much larger exporters. Hundreds of the women and men who make the Boeing 767, 777, and new 787 aircraft in Everett, Wash., recently wrote me urging Congress to reauthorize the Bank because their jobs and our local economy rely on it. The Ex-Im Bank has been so successful in recent years in boosting our exports that its lending authority needs to be expanded to keep up with our growing manufacturers. I was proud to introduce a bipartisan bill earlier this year with Congressman Manzullo to reauthorize and expand the Ex-Im Bank. I am pleased that Whip Hoyer and Leader Cantor were able to work out this sensible, bipartisan agreement that is largely in line with the bill I introduced, HR 4302. I know some of the critics of this bill will call this corporate welfare and say it is government manipulating in the market. The fact of the matter is every other major economy has a similar export-promotion program, and if we were to let the Ex-Im Bank expire, it would only help foreign companies at the expense of American exports and American jobs. Not only that, but the Ex-Im Bank is an investment that pays dividends back to the U.S. taxpayer, helping to reduce our deficit by $1.9 billion in the last five years alone. Thousands of workers in my district and around the country depend on the Ex-Im Bank for their jobs. I want to thank Whip Hoyer and Leader Cantor for their tireless work on this bill, as well as Congressman Manzullo for his work with me on this issue. I call on my colleagues to pass this bill so we can keep America open for business. ###
05.04.2012	EVERETT--Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Leaders Cantor and Hoyer announced a deal to extend and expand the Export-Import Bank:"I'm encouraged to see the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House have come to an agreement to extend and expand the Export-Import Bank,"Larsen said. "The deal they reached is largely in line with the bipartisan legislation I introduced with Rep. Manzullo earlier this year."I've been meeting with small manufacturers in Northwest Washington this week. Many of them rely on the Ex-Im bank to sell their products overseas and create jobs here at home. I look forward to voting for this deal next week and ending the uncertainty for our manufacturers."
05.04.2012	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Charles Boustany, LA-07, the bipartisan leaders of the U.S.-China Working Group, sent a letter in support of Chen Guangcheng and his family’s application to travel to the United States to Chinese Ambassador Zhang Yesui. The text of the letter is as follows:His Excellency Zhang YesuiAmbassador of the People’s Republic of China to the United States3505 International Place, NWWashington, D.C. 20008Dear Ambassador Zhang: As co-chairs of the 61-member bipartisan House U.S.-China Working Group, we are writing to express our desire that Chen Guangcheng and his family be allowed the opportunity to travel to the United States to continue his legal studies. Our two nations have made great strides over the past few years to increase educational and cultural exchanges for our citizens. These exchanges have led to greater mutual appreciation and understanding of our country’s unique histories, cultures, and societies. We have seen China move forward on openness and respect for dissenting views, and we look forward to seeing this progress continue. It is our hope that the Chinese government accepts Mr. Chen's applications for appropriate travel documents, expeditiously processes these applications, and makes accommodations for his medical conditions to allow him to travel. Thank you for your attention to this very important matter.Sincerely, Charles Boustany Rick Larsen Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
05.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a grant totaling $500,000 to build and modernize affordable housing and prevent crime on the Lummi Indian reservation. The grant was awarded under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) program.“A tremendous need for affordable housing exists on the Lummi Reservation,” Larsen said. “This grant provides an opportunity for Lummi members to get a safe roof over their heads.”The IHBG program provides funding to build, expand and improve affordable housing, provide housing services, and boost crime prevention and public safety programs on Indian reservations. For more information, visit https://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/grants/ihbg.cfm.###
05.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a $5 million grant for the Community Health Center of Snohomish County. This grant, awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services, will help the Center expand its services to serve more patients. Community health centers provide comprehensive, locally-focused primary care to medically underserved communities.“Community health centers are vital to the well being of the most vulnerable members of our communities,” Larsen said. “This grant will make it possible for the Community Health Center of Snohomish County to see more patients and provide better services. I will continue looking for ways to support local community health programs to better serve those who need it most here in Northwest Washington.”In March, the National Association of Community Health Centers presented Larsen with their 2012 Distinguished Community Health Advocate award for his work in support of community health centers. ###
05.01.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after the President announced a new strategic partnership agreement with Afghanistan.“The strategic partnership announced by the President in Afghanistan helps define our exit strategy and is an important step to ending the war and bringing our troops home,” Larsen said. “Over the last decade, the United States military has achieved its task of dismantling al Qaeda and the Taliban. I continue to advocate for an accelerated transfer of control to the Afghan government and the return home of our troops.”
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against the Republican plan to maintain student loan interest rates by cutting funding for the Prevention and Public Health Fund. The health fund pays for disease prevention and early detection, including screenings for breast and cervical cancer, childhood immunizations and birth defect screenings. Larsen has been an adamant supporter of preventing the doubling of the interest rate.“While it is great that the Republicans have come around and now say they are on board with our plan to keep student loan interest rates from doubling, it is hard to take their proposal seriously,” Larsen said. “In exchange for maintaining interest rates, they want to cut funds that help doctors find and prevent diseases. Those cuts would disproportionately hurt women who depend on the fund for hundreds of thousands of screenings for breast and cervical cancer.“I agree we should pay for the cost of the bill. The Democratic bill, which I support, would pay for the lower student loan interest rates by eliminating some of the unwarranted tax subsidies to big oil companies.“We don’t need to punish the middle class by cutting back healthcare in order to help kids go to college. That is a false choice, and I reject it.”The White House said the President would veto the bill if passed. In a Statement of Administration Policy, the White House said, “Unfortunately, rather than finding common ground on a way to pay for this critical policy, H.R. 4628 includes an attempt to repeal the Prevention and Public Health Fund, created to help prevent disease, detect it early, and manage conditions before they become severe. Women, in particular, will benefit from this Prevention Fund, which would provide for hundreds of thousands of screenings for breast and cervical cancer. This is a politically-motivated proposal and not the serious response that the problem facing America’s college students deserves.”###
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting for the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act.“From personal communication on Facebook and Twitter to banking and e-commerce, a huge part of our lives are spent online,” Larsen said. “We must make sure that our personal data and communications are protected from foreign and domestic hackers.”“Our nation’s cyber infrastructure is under a constant barrage of attacks. This legislation is designed to improve the sharing of information between the government and private sector so that these attacks can be better identified and protected against. The more closely the government and private sector work together to combat threats, the safer our personal data and nation will be.“I am deeply concerned about protecting personal information from improper access and misuse. I sought to make sure that personal information shared between companies and government is kept to a minimum and with the strongest safeguards in place to protect personal privacy. I will continue working to strengthen those protections as the House and Senate negotiate a final bill.”###
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON—The administration should adhere to the Jones Act and require that any oil released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve be carried by American vessels, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Larsen, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, today recommended an oversight hearing on the administration’s plans to protect American jobs if the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is tapped.“At a time when far too many Americans remain unemployed, we must make sure that any oil released from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is carried on U.S. built, owned and crewed vessels,” Larsen said. “The Jones Act’s restriction that waterborne cargo between two points in the United States be carried on American vessels is a sensible requirement that protects American jobs and ensures that the United States maritime industries remain vibrant contributors to both our national security and our economy.”In June 2011, the United States released oil held in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to combat rising prices of oil related to the conflict in Libya. The administration waived the Jones Act for the transportation of that oil.“Last year’s blanket waiver helped foreign tankers at the expense of American maritime workers,” Larsen added. “We need to make sure that doesn’t happen again."Larsen sent a letter this week to Committee leadership with House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Nick Rahall detailing their request for a hearing. That letter is below: The Honorable John L. Mica, Chairman, Committee on Transportation and InfrastructureThe Honorable Frank A. LoBiondo, Chairman, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation2165 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Mica and Chairman LoBiondo: In the spring of 2011, civil unrest in Libya resulted in the removal of over 145 million barrels of oil from the world’s petroleum supplies which led to a sharp increase in the price of oil. On June 23, 2011 in response to elevated oil prices and consistent with authority granted under section 161(d) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241(d)), President Obama authorized Energy Secretary Steven Chu to draw down and sell petroleum held in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). Regrettably, the President also directed the Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, to waive the U.S. coast wise laws, more commonly referred to as the Jones Act, for the transportation of oil distributed from the SPR. As you know, the Jones Act requires that all waterborne cargo moved between two points in the U.S. be transported on American vessels. This unwarranted blanket waiver which allowed foreign tankers to transport crude oil within U.S. coastal waters drew a sharp, bipartisan rebuke from the Congress and from the maritime sector. Additionally, this action was directly responsible for the House adopting the Cummings-Landry amendment during Floor consideration of H.R. 2838, the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2011. This amendment would impose more stringent transparency and accountability requirements on the Maritime Administrator to justify the granting of any future waivers of the coast wise laws.In light of the upheavals in gas prices, the Administration may again decide to release reserves from the SPR. Unlike last year, however, when the Administration justified its waiver of the Jones Act based on the unavailability of capacity in the U.S. tanker fleet, recent correspondence sent by the American Maritime Partnership to the Administration clearly articulates that there is “ample capacity to address changes in petroleum markets...”Before the Administration makes any decisions concerning the SPR and/or subsequent waivers of the coast wise laws, we are requesting that you convene an oversight hearing on this matter at the earliest possible date before either the Full Committee or the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation. We believe it is vitally important to send a clear signal to the Administration that we fully expect any transport of oil released from the SPR – now or in the future – to be carried on U.S. built, owned, and crewed vessels. At a time when far too many Americans remain unemployed, we must give priority to addressing the needs of our own maritime workers. Thank you, in advance, for your consideration of this request. We look forward to working with you to uphold the longstanding tenets of the Jones Act and to ensure that the maritime industries of the United States remain vibrant contributors to both our national security and economy. Sincerely, Nick J. Rahall, IIRick Larsen###
04.19.2012	WASHINGTON— Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, reiterated his support for higher education and ensuring access to college for young people during a meeting today with Western Washington University student and administration leaders in Washington, D.C. The student leaders discussed their legislative priorities and university President Bruce Shepard gave Larsen an update on the university’s new initiatives.“The student leaders I met with today are great examples of why it is so important to invest in higher education,” Larsen said. “I am focused on making it easier for kids to go to college by making sure we invest in Pell Grants and low-cost student loans.” Associated Students Vice President for Governmental Affairs Iris Maute-Gibson thanked Larsen for his February visit to the university campus, particularly for the meeting he convened on the Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act.“Thank you so much, on behalf of the students you met with,” Maute-Gibson told Larsen. “That was the best dialogue I’ve ever heard on the issue.” Larsen is a cosponsor of the DREAM Act, which would allow eligible immigrant students who were brought as children to the United States by their parents seek a path to legal residency. Maute-Gibson also asked Larsen to support the Tyler Clementi Higher Education Anti-Harassment Act of 2011 to combat harassment on college campuses. Larsen agreed to become a cosponsor today.“I really appreciated hearing from the students directly about their priorities and goals for the university,” Larsen said. “I am always impressed with the caliber of the students at Western. They are using their voice to speak for equality and fairness not just for themselves, but for young people around the country.” Shepard told Larsen about the university’s efforts to revamp its business model to make it more self-reliant, and highlighted its new renewable energy degree program as an example of innovation on the campus. Larsen presented Shepard with a copy of the resolution he authored and introduced with the rest of the Washington House delegation honoring Western Washington’s first Division II NCAA National Basketball Title. Shepard gave Larsen a shirt recognizing that win. Also attending the meeting were Western Washington University Vice President of University Relations Steve Swan, Associated Students President Anna Ellermeier, and Associated Students Legislative Liaison Joseph Meyer.Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, gives WWU President Bruce Shepard a copy of the copy of the resolution he authored and introduced with the rest of the Washington House delegation honoring Western Washington’s first Division II NCAA National Basketball Title. Shepard gives Larsen a shirt recognizing that win. From left to right: WWU President Bruce Shepard, WWU Associated Students Vice President for Governmental Affairs Iris Maute-Gibson, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, WWU Associated Students President Anna Ellermeier, and Associated Students Legislative Liaison Joseph Meyer.
04.19.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting against H.R. 9 which would give an untargeted 20 percent tax giveaway to businesses with no requirement of job creation.“At the same time as Republicans are trying to strip away Medicare’s guaranteed benefit, cut aid for kids to go to college and slash investments in our critical transportation infrastructure, they are now trying to give $46 billion away to millionaires, billionaires and special interests,” Larsen said. “This untargeted giveaway will not create jobs, will add to the deficit, and the vast majority of the benefit will go to the wealthiest. In fact, 125,000 millionaires would get a windfall averaging $58,000 each. “As we recover from the economic collapse and seek ways to close the deficit, we have hard choices to make. A huge giveaway to the wealthiest while cutting vital support for our seniors, young people and middle class Americans is the wrong choice to make. “I am a cosponsor of the Buffett Rule because we need to restore fairness to our tax code and make the investments in our country that will create jobs and restore the middle class. We need to be deliberate about what we invest in and in how we raise revenue to pay for those investments. We need to improve our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems, invest in our young people by making college affordable, and preserve seniors’ Medicare. If that means the wealthiest will have to pay at least the same rate in taxes as middle-class Americans do, then that is a choice I am more than willing to make.” ###
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today reiterated his call for a long-term robust transportation bill after voting against another 90-day extension of federal transportation programs. Last month Congress passed a 90-day extension that is set to expire at the end of June. The Senate has passed a two-year funding bill that the House has yet to consider.“We need a long-term bill that creates jobs and meets our needs by providing robust funding for our roads, bridges, highways and transit systems,” Larsen said. “Major infrastructure projects can’t be built in 90 days. It is not fair to tell construction workers that they only have a job for 90 days at a time, and it is irresponsible to leave critical infrastructure projects without reliable funding.”“I still believe the Senate bill is the best vehicle to move forward. It is my hope that House and Senate leaders will now negotiate a bill based on the Senate version. Any long-term bill we ultimately pass must create jobs and fully meet our critical infrastructure needs.”###
04.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today became a cosponsor of the Paying a Fair Share Act (H.R. 3903) which would make the Buffett Rule law. The Buffett Rule, named for billionaire investor Warren Buffett, would ensure that middle-class taxpayers do not pay a higher tax rate than those earning more than $1 million a year.“The Buffett Rule is about tax fairness,” Larsen said. “As thousands of people in Northwest Washington who have been struggling to make ends meet file their taxes this week, those making more than a million dollars each year should not be shirking their responsibility to pay their fair share. As Warren Buffett has said himself, he should not be paying a lower tax rate than his secretary.“This isn’t about class warfare or punishing those who have been successful. This bill, which I am proud to cosponsor, just makes sure that the wealthiest Americans are giving back to the country that made their success possible, just as the thousands of middle-class taxpayers in Northwest Washington do each year.”The average tax rate paid by the highest-income households is the lowest it has been in 50 years. In 2009, 22,000 households that made more than $1 million a year paid less than 15 percent of their income in federal income taxes, and 1,470 of those households paid no federal income taxes at all.For more information on the Buffett Rule, visit: https://www.whitehouse.gov/economy/buffett-rule.
04.13.2012	EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today lauded the Navy’s decision to name a new Virginia-class submarine the USS Washington. The submarine (SSN 787) will be the third vessel to bear the name Washington for the state. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, represents two Navy bases in the 2nd District: Naval Station Everett and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island.“With the Puget Sound one of the Navy’s largest and most important homes for the fleet, the name USS Washington is a fitting homage to our state’s strong and time-honored legacy of service,” Larsen said. “It’s been more than 50 years since a Navy ship has borne the name Washington in honor of our state. I’m glad that will now change.“Though coincidental, it is especially fitting that the USS Washington is designated the 787. From the Boeing Everett Factory to the shipyards in Virginia where the Washington is now under construction, that number stands as a symbol of pride and of the strength of our state, our workers and our service members.”The USS Washington will be 7,800-tons and 377 feet long. It will be able to operate at more than 25 knots submerged. It is designed with a reactor plant that will not require refueling during the planned life of the ship, reducing lifecycle costs while increasing underway time. Construction began on the submarine in September 2011. The first two vessels to bear the name USS Washington in honor of the state were a Tennessee-class armored cruiser (ACR-11) launched in 1905. She was renamed USS Seattle in 1916 and retired in 1946.The second was a 35,000-ton North Carolina class battleship (BB-56), launched in 1941 and scrapped in 1961. That USS Washington conducted wartime operations in the Atlantic and in the South Pacific, including in the Battle of Guadalcanal, the invasions of the Gilbert Islands and the Marshalls, and the Battle of the Philippine Sea. She later took part in operations to capture the Palaus, Leyte, Luzon, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Her final active duty was to transport veteran servicemen home from Europe. USS Washington was placed out of commission in June 1947 and was in “mothballs” from then until May 1961, when she was sold for scrapping.More information about the Virginia-class attack submarine is available at https://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4100&tid=100&ct=4 ###
04.12.2012	WA Senators and Representatives backed Department of Labor emergency assistance Kimberly-Clark workers transitioning to new jobsWASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA-02), and U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA-09) hailed the Department of Labor’s approval of $1.79 million in emergency assistance for 570 Kimberly-Clark workers in Everett, who lost their jobs and are transitioning to new employment. In February, Cantwell led a delegation letter in support of the workforce assistance, which was signed by Senator Murray and Congressmen Larsen and Smith as well as former Congressman Inslee. In the letter, the Washington delegation members supported a quick decision on the Snohomish County Workforce Development Council’s application for a Workforce Investment Act (WIA) Dual-Enrollment National Emergency Grant. The grant, approved today in the amount of $1,793,475, will provide additional services to 570 workers and their families as they transition to new jobs. On December 20, 2011, the Association of Washington Pulp and Paper Workers announced that the plant’s workers would receive Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which supports job training, relocation assistance and other reemployment services. A National Emergency Grant (NEG) will provide services not available under TAA, including transportation and childcare assistance as workers look for new employment.“This assistance is a critical resource for Kimberly-Clark workers who are looking for new employment,” Cantwell said. “With the closure of this plant came the loss of hundreds of family wage jobs in the community – jobs that have employed generations of families for 80 years. This emergency workforce assistance will help these workers get back on their feet as they transition to new employment.”“This announcement is great news for hundreds of affected workers in the Everett area who lost their job through no fault of their own,” Murray said. “This funding will help them get the support they need to get back on job as quickly as possible. I was proud to join with my colleagues to urge approval of this emergency grant.”“This assistance is critical for the former workers at the Kimberly-Clark plant, many of whom are still struggling to find work,” Larsen said. “This job training and placement assistance will be critical for the workers and their families. The workers at Kimberly-Clark deserved better than to have the plant close, and I will continue working to make sure they get the support they need in this difficult time.”The WIA’s NEGs are discretionary awards made by the Secretary of Labor when a significant number of workers at a facility are displaced and in need of assistance that can’t be met through standard WIA programs. The WIA’s various services have helped thousands of Washingtonians looking for work. During the last program year, July 2010 to June 2011, more than 364,000 Washington residents were served by WIA-funded programs in some way. ###
04.05.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced more than $1.5 million in funding for affordable housing for low-income families and economic development in Bellingham and Mount Vernon. The Department of Housing and Urban Development grants will be used by the cities to improve affordable housing and expand economic opportunities for low- and moderate-income residents.“These grants will create local construction jobs and help low-income families keep a roof over their heads,” Larsen said. “I am a strong supporter of local programs like these expand access to affordable housing and promote economic development.”The grants are as follows:BellinghamCommunity Development Block Grant – $711,300HOME Investment Partnership Grant – $516,847Mount VernonCommunity Development Block Grant – $292,317Community Development Block Grants are annual grants for state and local governments to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and expanding economic opportunities, especially for low- and moderate-income people. For more information, visit: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/comm_planning/communitydevelopment/programs.The HOME Investment Partnership program provides state and local governments grants for programs that meet local needs to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families. For more information, visit: https://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/affordablehousing/programs/home/. ###
03.30.2012	WASHINGTON—More than 2,800 Northwest Washington residents joined the telephone town hall hosted by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, yesterday. The call, which focused on the budget proposals, Medicare, energy and job creation, was the third telephone town hall Larsen has hosted this year.“Thanks to the more than 2,800 people who joined my telephone town hall yesterday,” Larsen said. “It was great to hear from so many of you concerned about the budget, jobs and protecting Medicare for seniors. We may not have agreed on every topic, but I appreciate the opportunity to discuss these important issues with you.”Summary data:2,889 constituents joined the call for an average of 12 minutes each.More than 200 constituents stayed on the line for the full hour.Larsen took 15 questions on topics including the budget proposals, Medicare, veterans, the Supreme Court’s deliberations on the Affordable Care Act, energy, the deficit, high speed rail, Larsen’s San Juan Islands National Conservation Area, and the proposed Gateway Pacific Terminal.###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today met with Defense Secretary Leon Panetta with a bipartisan group of representatives to discuss military communities and the Department of Defense’s request for a new Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round. Larsen’s district includes Naval Station Everett, Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and the Marysville Armed Forces Reserve Center which will be commissioned this weekend. “Today’s meeting with Secretary Panetta was an important opportunity to discuss the importance of military bases to the communities that house them,” Larsen said. “While the Department of Defense has requested another Base Realignment and Closure round, it is a nonstarter in Congress. Secretary Panetta assured us that the Defense Department would not move forward with BRAC without Congressional support.“Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, Naval Station Everett and the newly opening Marysville Armed Forces Reserve Center are integral parts of our communities’ personalities and economies.“Even if a BRAC round were to be initiated, our installations are in a stronger position than ever. The Navy’s recent decision to move three new destroyers to Everett and their renewed commitment to bring the P-8As to Whidbey Island shows the Department understands the bases’ strategic importance and their community’s support for their presence.“Secretary Panetta clearly understands that military personnel are important residents of their communities and that any changes to bases must be made with the understanding of the impact on their neighbors.”###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Washington’s entire House of Representatives delegation introduced a resolution led by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today in honor of Western Washington University’s first Division II NCAA National Basketball Title. The Western Washington University Vikings secured the championship with a win over the University of Montevallo on March 24.“The Vikings’ achievement is cause for celebration by all Washingtonians,” Larsen said. “This championship is just one more sign of Western’s excellence on and off the court. Congratulations to Coach Jackson and the whole team.”Larsen was joined by Reps. Jaime Herrera Beutler, WA-03, Doc Hastings, WA-04, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, WA-05, Norm Dicks, WA-06, Jim McDermott, WA-07, Dave Reichert, WA-08, and Adam Smith, WA-09, in introducing the resolution.The text of the resolution, as introduced, is as follows:RESOLUTIONCongratulating Western Washington University on winning its first Division II NCAA National Basketball Title in the school’s 110-year history.Whereas on March 24, 2012, the Western Washington University Vikings defeated the University of Montevallo Falcons by a score of 72 to 65, in the NCAA Division II championship game, giving the Vikings their first Championship win in program history;Whereas the Western Washington University Vikings entered the Elite Eight tournament in Highland Heights Kentucky on March 21, 2012, and defeated the Midwestern State University Mustangs by a score of 64 to 63 in the Quarterfinals;Whereas on March 22, 2012, Western Washington University defeated the Stonehill College Skyhawks in the Semifinals of the Elite Eight by a score of 71 to 66;Whereas the Western Washington University men’s basketball team and their coach, Brad Jackson, deserve an immense amount of respect and credit for their resolve and triumph in the NCAA Division II championship;Whereas Brad Jackson’s dedication as the team’s coach for 27 years, the longest tenure in school history, is admirable and worthy of praise; andWhereas Western Washington University has defeated its opponents and the odds to win a national title: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates Western Washington University for winning the Division II NCAA men’s basketball championship, the first win in school history. ###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding today’s votes on budget proposals in the House of Representatives:“The Republican budget is wrong for Northwest Washington and is not the path we as a nation should pursue,” Larsen said. “The budget would end Medicare’s guaranteed benefit and increase health care costs for seniors. It gives huge new tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans without paying for them. And it decimates vital investments in education, transportation infrastructure and scientific research.“The budget is a statement of values, and it is clear what the Republicans are saying: They want lower taxes without paying for them and seniors to pay more for their health care. The budget would make it harder for middle class kids to go to college and for our scientists to research cures for cancer and Alzheimer’s. Americans soundly rejected these ideas last year, and I stand with them.“We need a budget that creates jobs, invests in our future and reduces the deficit. I voted for the Democratic Budget that would create jobs immediately, build our infrastructure and invest in our future through education, innovation and support for small businesses. Our budget would protect Medicare for seniors and prevent Social Security from being privatized.“I know full well that we need to reduce the deficit. I have steadfastly supported a bold, balanced approach to reducing the deficit and controlling the debt. Cutting the deficit does not mean we have to ask for only the poor, middle class and senior citizens to sacrifice. We need to follow a shared sacrifice approach. That means cutting or scaling back programs where appropriate and raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans who have so far been asked to give nothing in the face of this mounting crisis.“The Democratic budget that I support adheres to the tight spending controls we created in the Budget Control Act and requires shared sacrifice from all Americans. The Democratic budget collapses the budget deficit from 8.7 percent of the gross domestic product in 2011 to under 3 percent by 2015.”###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Wash., and Rep. Don Manzullo, R-Ill., today introduced a bill to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank to avoid a credit crunch in trade finance and grow U.S. exports. The bank, whose authority expires May 31, helps finance sales of U.S. goods overseas. “Exports create jobs in Washington state and across the nation. The Export-Import Bank is an essential tool that allows our exporters, large and small, to sell their products overseas,” Larsen said. “The Export-Import Bank has been a huge success story, financing billions of dollars of U.S. exports each year and supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs. Failing to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank would have disastrous consequences for American manufacturers.”“I represent one of the most export-intensive districts in the nation, and the Export-Import bank fills a vital gap in trade finance,” Manzullo said. “Directly, Ex-Im helped sustain and expand jobs at many companies in the 16th District of Illinois by providing $143 million in desperately needed export credit assistance since 2007. Indirectly, Ex-Im helped dozens of local suppliers to aerospace, heavy equipment, and power generation manufacturers. This was all done at no net cost to the taxpayer. We cannot allow export credit to dry up for these manufacturers. Passage of this bipartisan, bicameral legislation represents a win-win for good paying jobs and the taxpayer during these tough economic times.”Larsen added: “Not only does the Ex-Im Bank not cost American taxpayers a single dollar, it returns a profit to the U.S. Treasury helping us reduce our deficit. The bank is important for large manufacturers like Boeing, but also small and medium manufacturers that are seeking to grow their exports overseas. I am pleased to join Congressman Manzullo in introducing this straightforward bipartisan bill to keep America open for business. In addition I would like to thank Senator Cantwell for her leadership on this legislation in the Senate.”In 2011, the Ex-Im bank supported nearly 290,000 export-related jobs in the United States, helping to finance more than $41 billion in sales from more than 3,600 American companies.The Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012:Extends the Bank’s authority through September 30, 2015;Adjust the Bank’s aggregate loan, guarantee and insurance authority by $10 billion a year to $140 billion by 2015;Directs the Bank to review its current domestic content requirement to ensure the bank is driven at promoting U.S.-produced exports and creating U.S. jobs;Strengthens Congressional oversight of the Bank, requiring it to submit a 5-year strategic plan and yearly evaluations and reporting;Improves the Bank’s transparency by requiring the Bank to provide more notice and details to the public about transactions over $100 million;Strengthens risk oversight so risk to taxpayers is fully considered and mitigated; andEnhances restrictions against financing for entities that do business with Iran.The text of the bill as introduced can be found here. A section-by-section breakdown of the bill can be found here. The legislation was first introduced in the Senate as an amendment to the JOBS Act by Sens. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Tim Johnson, D-S.D., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Richard Shelby, R-Ala.The Export-Import Bank helps finance billions of dollars in sales from U.S. companies to overseas customers. In Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, which Larsen represents, the Ex-Im Bank has supported more than $21 billion in exports since 2007. In Illinois’s 16th Congressional District, which Manzullo represents, the bank has supported more than $143 million in exports since 2007.For information on Ex-Im-supported exports from Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, visit: https://www.exim.gov/congmap/#/WA-2. For information on Ex-Im-supported exports to Illinois’ 16th Congressional District, visit: https://www.exim.gov/congmap/#/IL-16.###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced a bill to reauthorize and expand the U.S. Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. The bank, whose authority expires May 31, helps finance sales of U.S. manufactured goods. Since 2007 the Ex-Im bank has supported more than $21 billion in exports in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District from large and small businesses.“Exports create jobs in Washington state and across the nation. The Export-Import Bank is an essential tool that allows our exporters, large and small, to sell their products overseas,” Larsen said. “The Export-Import Bank has been a huge success story, financing billions of dollars of U.S. exports each year and supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs. The bank has been so successful helping manufacturers sell American-made goods overseas, that its lending authority needs to be expanded.” Since 2007 the Ex-Im Bank has helped finance the sale of exports from 15 companies in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, including 10 small businesses. For a list of companies in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District that have received support from the Ex-Im Bank in the last five years, visit: https://www.exim.gov/congmap/#/WA-2. “Not only does the Ex-Im Bank not cost American taxpayers a single dollar, it returns a profit to the U.S. Treasury helping us reduce our deficit,” Larsen added. “The bank is important for large manufacturers like Boeing, but also small and medium manufacturers that are seeking to grow their exports overseas. I am proud to introduce this straightforward bipartisan bill to keep America open for business. I thank Senator Cantwell for her leadership on this legislation in the Senate and I look forward to working across the aisle to pass this bill.”“We appreciate Congressman Larsen and Senator Cantwell taking the lead on this issue that directly impacts thousands of our members’ jobs at Boeing,” said IAM 751 Political Director Larry Brown. “Roughly 70 percent of the planes our members build for Boeing are sold to airlines and leasing companies outside the United States and financed through the Export-Import Bank. Failure to reauthorize Ex-Im would amount to unilateral disarmament in the face of other nation's aggressive trade finance programs. It will put billions of dollars in U.S. exports and thousands of American jobs at risk.” In 2011, the Ex-Im bank supported nearly 290,000 export-related jobs in the United States, helping to finance more than $41 billion in sales from more than 3,600 American companies. The Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012: Extends the Bank’s authority through September 30, 2015; Directs the Bank to review its current domestic content requirement to ensure the bank is driven at promoting U.S.-produced exports and creating U.S. jobs; Strengthens Congressional oversight of the Bank, requiring it to submit a 5-year strategic plan and yearly evaluations and reporting; Improves the Bank’s transparency by requiring the Bank to provide more notice and details to the public about transactions over $100 million; Strengthens risk oversight so risk to taxpayers is fully considered and mitigated; and Enhances restrictions against financing for entities that do business with Iran. Larsen introduced the bill with Rep. Don Manzullo, a Republican from Illinois’ 16th District. The text of the bill as introduced can be found here. A section-by-section breakdown of the bill can be found here. The legislation was first introduced in the Senate as an amendment to the JOBS Act by Sens. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Tim Johnson, D-S.D., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Richard Shelby, R-Ala. Larsen has received more than 350 letters from constituents in Northwest Washington whose jobs depend in part on the Ex-Im Bank. Larsen recorded a video response to those letters: Video Mailbag. ###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a 90-day extension of the transportation bill. Larsen was one of a group bipartisan transportation leaders who wrote a letter to House Leadership earlier this week calling for a vote on the Senate-passed two-year transportation authorization bill. The extension, which passed the House today, would be the ninth short-term extension of the transportation bill if passed by the Senate and signed by the President.“All this short-term extension does is increase uncertainty for construction workers, contractors and transportation planners,” Larsen said. “Ninety days is simply not enough time to plan major transportation projects in the middle of the construction season. Projects may be idled and workers left without jobs until we pass a long-term bill.”“I am disappointed that House leadership prevented a vote on the bipartisan two-year transportation bill passed in the Senate. That bill would support more than 33,000 jobs in Washington state by investing directly in our critical infrastructure. It earned the broad bipartisan support of three-quarters of the Senate and has the support of the President and Democrats in the House of Representatives. House Republican leaders must stop their obstructionism and allow us to move forward with the Senate bill.” ###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today introduced a bill to reauthorize and expand the U.S. Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. The bank, whose authority expires May 31, helps finance sales of U.S. manufactured goods. Since 2007 the Ex-Im bank has supported more than $21 billion in exports in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District from large and small businesses. “Exports create jobs in Washington state and across the nation. The Export-Import Bank is an essential tool that allows our exporters, large and small, to sell their products overseas,” Larsen said. “The Export-Import Bank has been a huge success story, financing billions of dollars of U.S. exports each year and supporting hundreds of thousands of jobs. The bank has been so successful helping manufacturers sell American-made goods overseas, that its lending authority needs to be expanded.” Since 2007 the Ex-Im Bank has helped finance the sale of exports from 15 companies in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District, including 10 small businesses. For a list of companies in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District that have received support from the Ex-Im Bank in the last five years, visit: https://www.exim.gov/congmap/#/WA-2. “Not only does the Ex-Im Bank not cost American taxpayers a single dollar, it returns a profit to the U.S. Treasury helping us reduce our deficit,” Larsen added. “The bank is important for large manufacturers like Boeing, but also small and medium manufacturers that are seeking to grow their exports overseas. I am proud to introduce this straightforward bipartisan bill to keep America open for business. I thank Senator Cantwell for her leadership on this legislation in the Senate and I look forward to working across the aisle to pass this bill.” “We appreciate Congressman Larsen and Senator Cantwell taking the lead on this issue that directly impacts thousands of our members’ jobs at Boeing,” said IAM 751 Political Director Larry Brown. “Roughly 70 percent of the planes our members build for Boeing are sold to airlines and leasing companies outside the United States and financed through the Export-Import Bank. Failure to reauthorize Ex-Im would amount to unilateral disarmament in the face of other nation's aggressive trade finance programs. It will put billions of dollars in U.S. exports and thousands of American jobs at risk.” In 2011, the Ex-Im bank supported nearly 290,000 export-related jobs in the United States, helping to finance more than $41 billion in sales from more than 3,600 American companies. The Export-Import Bank Reauthorization Act of 2012: Extends the Bank’s authority through September 30, 2015; Increase the Bank’s aggregate loan, guarantee and insurance authority by $10 billion a year to $140 billion by 2015; Directs the Bank to review its current domestic content requirement to ensure the bank is driven at promoting U.S.-produced exports and creating U.S. jobs; Strengthens Congressional oversight of the Bank, requiring it to submit a 5-year strategic plan and yearly evaluations and reporting; Improves the Bank’s transparency by requiring the Bank to provide more notice and details to the public about transactions over $100 million; Strengthens risk oversight so risk to taxpayers is fully considered and mitigated; and Enhances restrictions against financing for entities that do business with Iran. Larsen introduced the bill with Rep. Don Manzullo, a Republican from Illinois’ 16th District. The text of the bill as introduced can be found here. A section-by-section breakdown of the bill can be found here. The legislation was first introduced in the Senate as an amendment to the JOBS Act by Sens. Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., Tim Johnson, D-S.D., Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Richard Shelby, R-Ala. Larsen has received more than 350 letters from constituents in Northwest Washington whose jobs depend in part on the Ex-Im Bank. Larsen recorded a video response to those letters: Video Mailbag. ###
03.28.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement about the Cooper/LaTourette budget substitute amendment that is modelled on the Bowles-Simpson Commission. "I will vote tonight for a budget that closely aligns with the recommendations of the bipartisan Bowles-Simpson Commission which outlines a bold and balanced plan to reduce the deficit by more than $4 trillion. Cutting the deficit does not mean we have to ask only greater sacrifice from the poor, middle class and senior citizens. We need to share the sacrifice in an equitable manner."The plan requires $1 of new revenue through tax reform for every $2 in cuts. It would ensure the long-term solvency of Social Security and protect Medicare's guaranteed benefit for seniors."This bipartisan approach shows we can cut the deficit in a balanced way."I know many folks will have serious questions about this budget plan; however, Congress needs to plant the flag in the ground on a long-term plan for deficit reduction. If this plan doesn’t pass, then I will vote the Democratic substitute that is at least as serious in its approach."###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today reiterated his call for a long-term transportation bill. House Republican leadership has scheduled and canceled two votes on short-term extensions this week. Larsen was one of a group bipartisan transportation leaders who wrote a letter to House Leadership yesterday calling for a vote on the Senate-passed two-year transportation authorization bill.“Another day and another delay on legislation to create jobs and invest in our infrastructure,” Larsen said. “Every day we wait is another day that out-of-work construction workers are uncertain about whether we will be able to break ground on transportation projects.”“We have an opportunity to pass the bipartisan Senate transportation bill right away. That bill would support tens of thousands of jobs in Washington state by investing directly in our critical infrastructure. Instead of trying for yet another short term extension, I call on House leaders to move forward with the Senate bill immediately.” ###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced a grant for $1,223,085 to build and modernize affordable housing on the Upper Skagit Indian Reservation. The grant was awarded under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Indian Housing Block Grant program.“This grant will allow the Upper Skagit Indians to expand and improve affordable housing on their reservation,” Larsen said. “It will also help create local construction jobs. I am a strong supporter of local initiatives like this that develop and enhance affordable housing options.”The IHBG program provides funding to build, expand and improve affordable housing, provide housing services, and boost crime prevention and public safety programs on Indian reservations. For more information, visit https://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/grants/ihbg.cfm.###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the Whatcom Transit Authority will receive federal funding to purchase three new buses. The $974,000 grant is from the Federal Transit Administration. “Investments in public transportation are critical to create jobs and keep our economy moving forward,” Larsen said. “Transportation investments like these new buses improve our infrastructure and make commuting easier for Whatcom County residents. Infrastructure investments like these are the reason I am fighting for a long-term, robust transportation bill in Congress.”###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Seventy-five homeless veterans in Snohomish County will receive permanent housing through a grant announced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The 75 housing vouchers totaling $585,873 are awarded through the Department of Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH). The Housing Authority of Snohomish County will administer the vouchers. Larsen has been a supporter of funding for the HUD-VASH program.“Too many local veterans are struggling with homelessness,” Larsen said. “I take it as one of my highest responsibilities as a member of Congress to ensure that the brave women and men who served their country in the military get the support they have earned and deserve when they return home. These grants will help 75 Snohomish County veterans get permanent housing and on the path to independence.”“We are pleased to receive these grants to add more resources to serving veterans in our community,” said Bob Davis, the Executive Director of the Housing Authority of Snohomish County. “These vouchers are an important tool to get veterans off the streets and into permanent homes." Eligible veterans are identified through Veterans Affairs Medical Facilities (VAMC) based on the duration of homelessness and their need for longer term intensive support. The HUD-VASH program includes rental assistance and comprehensive case management through the VAMC. Veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH program rent privately owned housing and contribute no more than 30 percent of their own income toward rent. Earlier this month Larsen signed a letter of support for full funding of the HUD-VASH program in 2013. Larsen also announced 25 HUD-VASH housing vouchers for Skagit County. For more information on the HUD-VASH program, visit: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/public_indian_housing/programs/hcv/vash ###
03.27.2012	WASHINGTON—Twenty-five homeless veterans in Skagit County will receive permanent housing through a grant announced today by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02. The 25 housing vouchers totaling $144,969 are awarded through the Department of Housing and Urban Development Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH). The Skagit County Housing Authority will administer the vouchers. Larsen has been a supporter of funding for the HUD-VASH program.“Too many local veterans are struggling with homelessness,” Larsen said. “I take it as one of my highest responsibilities as a member of Congress to ensure that the brave women and men who served their country in the military get the support they have earned and deserve when they return home. These grants will help 25 Skagit County veterans get permanent housing and on the path to independence.” Eligible veterans are identified through Veterans Affairs Medical Facilities (VAMC) based on the duration of homelessness and their need for longer term intensive support. The HUD-VASH program includes rental assistance and comprehensive case management through the VAMC. Veterans who participate in the HUD-VASH program rent privately owned housing and contribute no more than 30 percent of their own income toward rent. Earlier this month Larsen signed a letter of support for full funding of the HUD-VASH program in 2013. Larsen also announced 75 HUD-VASH housing vouchers for Snohomish County. For more information on the HUD-VASH program, visit: https://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/public_indian_housing/programs/hcv/vash
03.26.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Robert J. Dold (R-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Judy Biggert (R-IL), Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Charlie Bass (R-NH) released a letter to House Leadership asking the House to provide certainty to transportation agencies, construction workers, and commuters across the country and bring the bipartisan Senate bill, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century, to the House floor.“A ninety day extension puts us squarely in the middle of construction season, ensuring that transportation agencies will not have the funding necessary to begin any significant projects this year,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03). “While the Senate bill is by no means perfect, it will provide much needed certainty to the transportation agencies, while Congress figures out how to deal with our long term funding issues. I hope that my colleagues in the House will realize that it’s time to act like grown-ups and pass the bipartisan Senate bill.”“With funding for transportation and infrastructure projects expiring at the end of the week, it is critical that we act as soon as possible to provide certainty in the transportation and infrastructure sector that employs so many Americans,” said Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL-10). “I firmly believe transportation is a bipartisan priority that extends beyond partisan politics- that is why I am urging the House to consider the bipartisan Senate bill if it cannot bring a viable longer-term bill to the House floor by the March 31 expiration. We must reach a bipartisan consensus now to ensure that local transportation agencies can better plan for the future, and so that these important projects and jobs can continue.”“Transportation and infrastructure investments create jobs and provide substantial economic growth, but only when they are backed by long-term commitments to funding and policies,” said Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL-05). “By taking immediate action in the House on MAP-21, we can provide some much needed certainty to the transportation sector in these tough economic times.”Congressman Charles Bass (R-NH-02) said, “To ensure the safety of our roads and strengthen the economy, we need a long-term highway bill reauthorization so states, local communities, and contractors have the funding certainty they need to advance critical infrastructure projects. In New Hampshire, for example, the I-93 widening project will have a significant economic impact on the southern part of the state and improve safety on one of New Hampshire’s most heavily-traveled roadways. We can’t expect states and contractors to plan and execute infrastructure projects in the face of such uncertainty caused by a series of short-term extensions, so we need to work together to move a longer-term highway reauthorization forward.”“Every day we wait to pass a long-term transportation bill is another day of uncertainty for construction workers and transportation planners. These construction jobs to repair our roads, bridges and highways can’t wait another 90 days,” said Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA-02). “The Senate bill was negotiated and passed on a widely bipartisan basis. It would support hundreds of thousands of jobs by investing directly in our critical infrastructure, laying the foundation for long-term economic growth. Instead of a ninth short-term extension, the House should move forward with the Senate bill.”“For suburban motorists in districts like mine, this isn’t about politics or policy, it’s about getting to work on time,” said Judy Biggert (R-IL-13), who represents Chicago’s south and western suburbs. “We need to act quickly so our regional transportation managers can plan and invest in the roads, railways, and bridges that keep people and commerce moving. A long-term bill is ideal, but a series of short-term extensions just won’t do. We need to work together and send a multi-year plan to the President’s desk.”The bipartisan Senate legislation was passed 74-22 on March 14th, 2012. Current legislation runs out March 31, 2012. The House plans to vote on a three month extension today.###
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, assailed the Republican budget released today by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan. The budget revives a proposal to convert Medicare to a voucher-based system.“I am astounded that Republicans are once again trying to end Medicare as we know it after the American people so soundly rejected that effort last year,” Larsen said. “The foundation of Medicare is the guaranteed benefit. This budget would end the guarantee of care and increase costs for seniors. Tens of thousands of seniors in Northwest Washington depend on Medicare as their only source of health care coverage. The Republican budget would slash care while providing even more tax cuts to the very wealthy in this country. I will fight against it.”###
03.20.2012	WASHINGTON– Today, the House Armed Services Committee’s Panel on Business Challenges Within the Defense Industry released their report Challenges to Doing Business with the Department of Defense: Findings of the Panel on Business Challenges in the Defense Industry. The report is the culmination of six months of work examining the challenges that businesses face when working with the Department of Defense. In completing its work, the Panel met with or heard testimony from more than 150 people from around the country representing government, industry, think tanks, and academia. Read the Report (PDF)"For the past seven months, the Panel on Business Challenges within the Defense Industry has focused its efforts on identifying the challenges businesses face in working with the Department of Defense to improve our national security," said Congressman Bill Shuster, the Panel's chairman. "Across the country, we heard the same thing from businesses, academics and researchers: navigating the defense acquisitions process is difficult for allbusinesses, but is particularly difficult for small businesses." "Our investigation into the defense business environment has resulted in this report, which outlines a set of recommendations that should be taken to make the defense acquisition process leaner, less risk adverse, improve business to government relations and embrace emerging technologies.We’ve included recommendations that we believe are actionable – many of which we recommend for inclusion in as part of this year's defense authorization act." Congressman Shuster said. “A strong defense industrial base is critical to both our national security and economy,” Rep. Rick Larsen, ranking member on the panel, said. “As the Defense Department resets after a decade of war, we need to make sure our defense dollars are used in the most efficient way and go to the most innovative technologies that support our troops. Our recommendations are designed to streamline the defense acquisition process and remove barriers for smaller contractors. Small businesses are true innovators and important job-creators. It is critical they are given every opportunity to compete for defense contracts.” “Thanks to Congressman Shuster and the other members of the panel, as well as all the businesses we met with at our roundtables around the country. From the meeting in my district in Northwest Washington to the meetings in all our members’ districts and in Washington, DC, we were able to hear directly from small businesses about the challenges they face. Their input was critical when helping us make our recommendations,” Larsen added. The report includes several key recommendations, including:Requiring the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Service Secretaries, to develop a long-term strategy for maintaining a robust and effective defense industrial base.Requiring the Secretary of Defense to develop policies and mechanisms to improve communication with industry to better enable industry to allocate independent R&D resources and make investments to meet the future needs of the Department.Ensuring that work being reserved for small business performance is actually performed by small businesses.Continuing to rebuild the breadth and depth of the defense acquisition workforce which will, in all likelihood, save money and improveacquisition outcomes.Simplifying and streamlining the acquisition process by conducting a comprehensive review of the laws and regulations that govern the acquisition process in order to repeal or amend regulations that are outdated or have had unintended consequences that outweigh the original intent of the regulation.Representatives Shuster and Larsen, together with other members of the Panel on Small Business Challenges will participate in a media availability tomorrow, Wednesday March 21st at 2:30 in room 2118 Rayburn.###
03.14.2012	WASHINGTON—Women’s health experts and advocates joined Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, at two listening sessions this week to discuss recent attacks on women’s health and access to contraceptive care. Larsen hosted the listening sessions in Everett and Bellingham to hear directly from Northwest Washington residents about how the national debate is impacting his constituents.“It’s amazing to me that we are still talking about this issue in 2012,” Larsen said. “The American people want Congress to focus on improving the economy and creating jobs, not taking away vital care for women. I thank the women and men who met with me in Everett and Bellingham and shared their personal stories. I stand with them. This is about women being able to make their own health choices. I will continue to oppose efforts in Congress to impede that right.”“While watching the erosion of women’s reproductive rights across the country has made me sad and angry, I have hope when people like U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen listen to our concerns and voice their support,” said doctoral student and Planned Parenthood supporter Rebecca McGovney-Ingram, who attended the Everett meeting.Larsen asked attendees at the Bellingham event how the recent attacks on women’s contraception make them feel. Victoria Dahlgren, a former board member of Mount Baker Planned Parenthood, said, “Oppressed. It makes me feel oppressed. We had resolved this issue when I was young. I’m past childbearing age and here we are fighting it again.”Dana Laurent, Political Director of Planned Parenthood Votes Northwest said, “At a time when we need Congress to be focused on putting people back to work, opponents of women’s health in Washington DC are waging the worst attack on women that we’ve seen in a generation. Congressman Larsen clearly understands that we need to create jobs, not take basic preventive health care, like birth control and cancer screenings, away from millions of American women.”In case you missed it: Everett Herald: Limbaugh aside, contraception remains a hot topicBellingham Herald: Rep. Larsen in Bellingham: ‘Quite a shock’ Congress is debating women’s contraceptive rightsKOMO Bellingham: Rep. Rick Larsen talks women’s health at Bellingham coffee house###
03.12.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the decision by the World Trade Organization Appellate Body that rejected the vast majority of subsidy allegations against the United States and Boeing. U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk announced the decision today.“Today’s announcement is a validation of what I have been saying all along: Boeing has had to play on an uneven playing field as Airbus has juiced up on illegal fiscal steroids,” Larsen said. “This is a major victory for the United States and for Boeing. It proves that European subsidies to Airbus are far larger than any support Boeing has received.“Our aerospace workers are the best in the world and have achieved great success even in the face of blatantly illegal subsidized competition. I call on Europe to end their subsidies and restore fairness to the competition. I know that on an even playing field, Boeing’s workers in Northwest Washington will prevail.”###
03.11.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in response to reports about the killing of civilians by an American soldier in Afghanistan.“Reports of the jaw-dropping incident of a US soldier opening fire on Afghan families are shocking and incomprehensible. Nothing can justify these acts. Given recent problems in Afghanistan, this horrible act could result in circumstances spinning out of control in a country where we have seen order easily spin out of control.“The US military should immediately start an investigation into this horrible incident and continue to provide care to survivors.“The vast majority of the women and men in our military serve with honor and are promoting US national security goals in Central Asia. They deserve our support. “However, I reiterate my call for an accelerated drawdown in Afghanistan. Our military efforts have largely driven al-Qaeda from that country. It is time for our troops to come home and our focus to turn to training Afghan troops and government to take over operations.”###
03.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called for robust funding for ferries in the transportation reauthorization bill. In a letter to Rep. John Mica, chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of which Larsen is a member, Larsen asked that $200 million be allocated to ferry programs, an increase from the $67 million authorized in the bill passed by the committee last month. That bill is currently undergoing major revision. Last year Larsen introduced the United States Ferry Systems Investment Act, a bipartisan bill which would strengthen federal investment in ferry systems nationwide.Larsen’s letter to Mica follows:March 9, 2012The Honorable John MicaChairmanCommittee on Transportation and Infrastructure2165 Rayburn House Office BuildingDear Mr. Chairman:As the House continues to work on multi-year reauthorization funding of surface transportation programs, I urge you to continue to support robust funding for the Federal Highway Administration Ferry Boat Program. As you know, ferries carry more than 100 million passengers annually and operate in at least 38 states nationwide. Ferries help relieve congestion in major metropolitan areas, serve isolated communities, provide a critical emergency evacuation alternative and serve as an interim solution when other transportation infrastructure systems fail. In my state, many of the ferry routes are critical links in the National Highway System.I appreciate your support for language in the recently marked up Surface Transportation Reauthorization that retains the Ferry Boat Program, and also transforms the program from a discretionary one into a formula program. This distinction is critically important, and I urge you to support it in any future transportation bills.Another critical piece of ferry infrastructure is the authorized amount in the transportation bill. While the ferry program is authorized to spend $67 million in the committee passed bill, the needs for the program are much larger. As you know, I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that would increase that authorization amount to $200 million, an amount that would help address the infrastructure and operational needs of ferries. I ask that you support this necessary and important increase in funding.Thank you for your past support of the Ferry Boat Program. I appreciate your consideration of my requests and look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure the future of ferry transportation in the U.S.Sincerely,Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd District ###
03.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today welcoming the USS Nimitz to Everett. He also wrote an op-ed for the Everett Herald on the Nimitz and the future of Naval Station Everett.“Welcome to the USS Nimitz, her sailors and their families to Everett,” Larsen said. “The Nimitz’s sailors will soon learn why Everett is known as the ‘Sailor’s Choice’ of bases. Naval Station Everett is a critical part of Everett’s personality, not to mention an important economic engine. We are happy to host the Nimitz and look forward to a strong relationship.” ###
03.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today praised the inclusion of a one-year extension of Secure Rural Schools in the transportation reauthorization bill it is considering.“The Senate did the right thing by voting overwhelmingly to include a one-year extension of the Secure Rural Schools program in their transportation bill,” Larsen said. “This program is hugely important to Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties as a lifeline to compensate them for lost timber revenues.“Dollars from Secure Rural Schools go directly to helping counties maintain their roads and keep teachers in classrooms. Counties with federally managed lands lose out on revenue they would otherwise get. Secure Rural Schools reimburses those counties, giving them the funding they need to support their schools and infrastructure. Government officials and school administrators across Northwest Washington regularly tell me how critical the program is to providing these critical services to our communities.“I will work hard with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to ensure that the program is included in any final transportation bill passed in the House.”###
03.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today in response to the Labor Department’s report that the economy added 227,000 jobs in February.“This is the third consecutive month that the economy has added than 200,000 jobs. The economy is strengthening, and businesses are hiring again,” Larsen said. “While this is undeniably a positive sign, I am under no illusions that our work is done. One of the biggest challenges we face is that more than 40 percent of those who are unemployed have been so for more than six months. We must keep aggressively pursuing new jobs.“In Congress the number one thing we should do to create jobs is pass a robust transportation bill that invests in our future while creating jobs today. I am pleased the Senate is moving ahead with a bill that I believe we should take up and pass in the House this month. We must also maintain investments in manufacturing and seek new opportunities for American companies to export their products overseas. These actions will create jobs today and maintain American economic leadership in the world.” ###
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for a bill designed to help small businesses get access to capital and expand. “We need to make it easier for small businesses to grow and create jobs. This bill helps small businesses get access to capital and reduces regulatory obstacles for companies to go public,” Larsen said. “My number one goal in Congress is to implement a forward thinking plan for long-term economic growth. This bill will help small businesses grow by giving them an easier process for initial public offerings. Those businesses will get access to capital while retaining the critical oversight necessary of public companies. It will also allow small banks to increase the number of their shareholders, expanding the amount of capital they can loan out to small businesses. These tools will help small businesses become larger, creating jobs and expanding innovation in our economy.” ###
03.08.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, called for support of manufacturing and export initiatives in testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Budget. Larsen highlighted the importance of manufacturing and exports in Northwest Washington. The full text of Larsen’s testimony follows:Chairman, Ranking Member, and members of the Committee: Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you this morning. As the Committee considers and revises the President’s budget proposal, I urge you to fully support programs that are focused on boosting manufacturing and increasing exports.We are in such a pivotal and critical point in determining our nation’s manufacturing and economic future. Between June 1979 and December 2009, the US lost 41 percent of its manufacturing jobs. We must turn this decline around by investing in manufacturing and boosting exports, both of which create jobs for Americans.This Budget is a key vehicle to help turn that around. America’s future is dependent on us getting our investments right in this budget.President Obama visited the Boeing manufacturing facility in my District last month to highlight several aspects of his Budget that will help grow manufacturing and expand our exports. I fully support the President’s goal to double our exports between 2010 and 2015, and I urge this Committee to support these initiatives.The President has requested $430 million for the Export-Import Bank, the US Trade and Development Agency, the Office of US Trade Representative, the US International Trade Commission, and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and $517 million for the Commerce Department’s International Trade Administration. Expanding the Export-Import Bank’s authority and providing a long-term reauthorization for it will help U.S. firms compete with foreign firms that receive government support. Support of the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center will help ensure that American manufacturers have fair access to foreign markets.These budget initiatives will have a real and positive impact in all of our communities. Boosting manufacturing is a key part of rebuilding the middle class by providing a source of good-paying jobs and helping the economy fully recover. In Washington state’s 2nd District in the Pacific Northwest, manufacturing accounts for a huge portion of jobs and job growth. From the people who work at small manufacturers that create specialized pipe fittings and windows and doors, to the huge manufacturer Boeing, the residents of the 2nd District know the importance of still being able to build things here in America.The best way that we can grow manufacturing is by expanding exports. One in four jobs in my state is tied to foreign exports, and that number has greatly expanded in the last several years. Manufacturers that can get access to the world markets can greatly expand the demand for their products. When manufacturers increase their production, they hire more people.I work directly with manufacturers in Northwest Washington through an Export Promotion Program that I established. One of the companies I have worked with, a small maker of windows and doors, went from exporting none of their products in 2009, to being on track this year to export $1.2 million to British Columbia, Canada alone. This kind of success can be replicated across the country, but only if we continue to support the expansion of exports and the budget measures that support that expansion. I urge the Committee to fund those initiatives that support a trade policy that promotes exporting our goods, and not exporting our jobs, overseas.Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today.
03.07.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today received commitment from the Federal Maritime Commission that it will complete its final study on cargo diversion by late spring or early summer. Larsen questioned Federal Maritime Commission Chairman Richard A. Lidinsky, Jr., at a Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee hearing. Larsen is the top Democrat on the subcommittee.“When shippers divert their cargo to Canada instead of our ports in Northwest Washington, we lose jobs,” Larsen said. “I am pleased the Federal Maritime Commission has committed to finishing its study on cargo diversion by this summer so that Congress and the Administration can take appropriate steps to fix this problem and return jobs to our ports.”A growing number of imports from Asia pass through west coast Canadian container ports en route to the United States. This U.S.-bound cargo is diverted to Canada instead of U.S. west coast ports largely because the U.S. Harbor Maintenance Tax is imposed on containers entering U.S. ports. Administrators of northwest ports have told Larsen that the Harbor Maintenance Tax is increasingly costing them business.Larsen and other members of the Washington delegation asked the Federal Maritime Commission for the study last year. The commission voted to initiate the study in October.
03.06.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for H.R. 4105, which would give the U.S. Department of Commerce authority to administer countervailing tariffs on illegally subsidized foreign goods imported from non-market economies. The bipartisan bill was approved by the House of Representatives on a vote of 370 to 39.“This bill will help level the playing field for American manufacturers that export their goods overseas,” Larsen said. “When other countries don’t play by the same rules, American workers are hurt. This bill will allow the Commerce Department to fight unfair subsidies that hurt American manufacturers. We should aggressively use every tool at our disposal to protect American jobs. Tools like this bill and the President’s recently formed Interagency Trade Enforcement Center will help make sure that American manufacturers and workers have a fair shot in world markets.”“I am a strong supporter of growing manufacturing by increasing exports. My District Export Promotion Program helps small businesses get access to new customers in new markets to allow them to grow and add jobs. As we continue to seek ways to expand export opportunities, I will keep fighting to make sure that American businesses are given every opportunity to compete on a level playing field.”
03.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, released the following statement today after Rep. Norm Dicks, WA-06, announced he would retire at the end of this Congress.“Norm is a passionate and tireless advocate for Washingtonians, and has been for over three decades,” Larsen said.“I have mixed emotions about his departure. I am happy for both Norm and Suzie, but his retirement leaves a big hole in the Washington delegation.“Norm is seen as Washington state’s third senator, and rightfully so. From strengthening our national defense to protecting our natural resources, especially helping to fortify our fisheries and restoring salmon populations, Norm has been a tireless advocate and public servant.“Norm took on the mantle of Washington state’s legacy of public service. He built on the example set by Warren Magnuson and he sets a new standard that falls to this generation of leaders to fulfill and build upon. “I honor Norm’s service. He is a valued mentor and a good friend. I thank Norm for his work on behalf of our state, and I wish him and Suzie all the best in their next adventure.”
02.29.2012	WASHINGTON—Legislation authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to help school districts serving military or tribal communities advanced this week in a key House of Representatives committee. The text of Larsen’s Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act was included in the Encouraging Innovation and Effective Teachers Act (H.R. 3990) which the House Education and the Workforce Committee approved last night.“Impact Aid is critical for several communities in Northwest Washington, including Oak Harbor, Marysville and Ferndale,” Larsen said. “For too long, Impact Aid funding has not been guaranteed, not paid in full, and rarely paid in a timely manner. My bill would require the Department of Education to fully reimburse Impact Aid school districts in a timely manner. This will help relieve school districts of uncertainty when planning their budgets. It will help make sure that these schools are able to give the best educations to all of their students.”Public schools are required by law to accept all children from military families, Indian reservations or other federal establishments. Families in federal housing, however, do not pay local property taxes on this land, denying local schools of their traditional funding source. This puts a severe financial burden on school districts that educate a significant number of federally connected children, diminishing the overall quality of education, and increasing the funding burden on local taxpayers. Larsen’s legislation would relieve those pressures and provide more certainty for planning.
02.28.2012	In letter to President Obama, members urge approval of a federal disaster declaration for 11 Washington counties WASHINGTON – In a letter sent today, members of the Washington Congressional delegation called for President Obama to approve a request from Washington state to issue a federal disaster declaration for 11 counties struggling to overcome severe winter weather.Governor Chris Gregoire formally asked for the designation on February 21. The move would provide additional aid to Clallam, Grays Harbor, King, Klickitat, Lewis, Mason, Pierce, Skamania, Snohomish, Thurston, and Wahkiakum counties. Winter storms between January 14 and January 23 produced extensive freezing rain, snowfall and wind that created severe avalanches, flooding, landslides, and mudslides.The letter was signed by U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray (both D-WA), U.S. Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA-01), U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA-02), U.S. Representative Norm Dicks (D-WA-06), U.S. Representative Jim McDermott (D-WA-07), and U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA-09).“As a result of these weather events, 500,000 Washington state residents experienced power outages, road closures, and property damages, which has significantly impacted our state’s economy,” the members wrote in the letter sent today. “Our state government, counties and local communities are continuing to provide a strong disaster response through coordination of municipalities on all levels. However, we now urge you to act swiftly and approve this request for a federal disaster declaration.”The National Weather Service has reported that these storms dropped up to 19 inches of snow on parts of the Western Washington lowlands. The Washington Cascades is also recorded as having received five to eight inches of snow. In an unprecedented move, the National Weather Service issued an ice storm warning for most of the Puget Sound and Southwestern Washington.Full text of the letter sent today follows.February 28, 2012President Barack Obama The White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President,We write to urge you to approve as quickly as possible the federal disaster declaration requested by Governor Christine Gregoire on February 21, 2012 for 11 counties in Washington State.Between January 14, 2012, and January 23, 2012, the State of Washington was the recipient of unseasonably cold weather that moved from Western Canada into the Pacific Northwest, and remained in the region for several days. Washington experienced significant freezing rain, snowfall, and wind during this weather event, which subsequently triggered severe avalanches, flooding, landslides, and mudslides. The National Weather Service has reported that parts of Western Washington lowlands received up to 19 inches of snow, and the Washington Cascades received five to eight feet of snow. The National Weather Service also issued an ice storm warning for much of the Puget Sound and southwestern Washington region, unprecedented for such a large area.As a result of these weather events, 500,000 Washington State residents experienced power outages, road closures, and property damage, which has significantly impacted our state’s economy. Our state government, counties and local communities are continuing to provide a strong disaster response through coordination of municipalities on all levels. However, we now urge you to act swiftly and approve this request for a federal disaster declaration for Clallam, Grays Harbor, King, Klickitat, Lewis, Mason, Pierce, Skamania, Snohomish, Thurston, and Wahkiakum Counties.Thank you in advance for your attention to this matter.Sincerely,Senator Maria CantwellSenator Patty MurrayCongressman Jay InsleeCongressman Norm DicksCongressman Jim McDermottCongressman Adam SmithCongressman Rick Larsen
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted yes on the bipartisan agreement to extend the payroll tax relief and unemployment insurance, and maintain Medicare reimbursement rates. The bill will extend the provisions through the end of the year.“I supported this bill because it protects seniors' ability to see the doctor of their choice, and sustains critical unemployment insurance for more than 160,000 Washington residents,” Larsen said. “By passing this bill today, we are restoring certainty to Washington families and businesses, and ending Congress's posturing and political games over the vital benefits for millions of Americans.”“This is not a perfect bill. This should be the last year for the payroll tax cut, so that the holiday does not cut too deeply into the Social Security Trust Fund. I am disappointed that new federal workers will be required to pay more into their pension benefits as a way to offset some of the cost of this bill. Federal employees have already contributed $60 billion to deficit reduction through the freeze on their pay over the last two years. We need to take a balanced approach instead of punishing civil servants and threatening benefits for the poor and middle class.”### Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";}
02.16.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding President Obama’s planned announcement in Everett of initiatives to promote jobs, manufacturing and exports."The President’s initiatives to help America’s businesses export their goods are exactly the way we will continue creating jobs in Washington state," Larsen said. "Promoting exports by helping finance small businesses and bringing down trade barriers is another shot in the arm to our state’s economic recovery."There's no better place than Northwest Washington to showcase American manufacturing and the potential to build our economy through expanding exports. As one of the country’s biggest exporters, one in three jobs in our state is tied to producing goods that are sold overseas. I have been helping small and medium businesses grow their exports through my District Export Promotion Program. Earlier this month I visited a small manufacturer in Bellingham called Specified Fittings. Their success in growing their sales overseas has led them to hire dozens of workers just in the last few months, and they are planning to hire even more. When we grow manufacturing, we can export our goods, not our jobs, overseas."
02.14.2012	Larsen: “With this announcement, the future of Naval Station Everett is secured.” EVERETT—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the Navy will boost its presence at Naval Station Everett, replacing each of the three frigates with new or modified destroyers over the next seven years. Larsen joined Everett Mayor Ray Stephanson to make the announcement today.“The decision to homeport three more destroyers here secures the future of Naval Station Everett,” Larsen said. “Today’s announcement is a validation of the community’s long and steadfast support for Naval Station Everett. I have spent years convincing the Navy that Everett is ready, willing and able to support more and larger ships. Not only is Everett a strategically important location, but its facilities are among the best the Navy has to offer.” Mayor Stephanson enthusiastically welcomed the news. “Today’s announcement provides stability and predictability for the Station and the community through the decade,” he said. “I greatly appreciate Rep. Larsen’s unwavering commitment to the long-term success of Naval Station Everett and the future of new Navy families who will call Everett and Snohomish County home.” Larsen, who was informed of the decision by Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus last week, has long pushed to homeport more destroyers at Naval Station Everett. The change will mean Naval Station Everett will be homeport to five destroyers in addition to an aircraft carrier, resulting in a 7 percent increase in personnel from 3,956 to 4,235.“Bringing the destroyers to Everett shows the Navy is committed to the base and recognizes its importance in our Asia-Pacific security strategy,” Larsen added. “While many military communities are worried about impending cuts to the Defense Department budget, the decision to bring the destroyers to Everett should relieve our community of any fears of losing this cornerstone of our community.”“The ships will also bring hundreds of new sailors and their families to Snohomish County, boosting our economy,” Larsen said. “This means hundreds of new customers for our businesses and residents in our neighborhoods. I look forward to joining the community in welcoming the crews and families over the next few years.” The Navy will homeport the destroyers to replace the frigates USS Ford (FFG 54), USS Rodney M. Davis (FFG 60), and USS Ingraham (FFG 61) as they are decommissioned in 2014, 2016 and 2019 respectively. The destroyers will be a mix of new and modified ballistic missile defense-capable ships. Larsen has a long record of calling for more destroyers at Naval Station Everett. Since 2005 he has regularly written and spoken to top Naval officers about placing destroyers at Everett. In a July 2005 letter to then Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Michael Mullen, Larsen wrote, “Of all the bases overlooking the Pacific, Naval Station Everett is the Navy installation with the pier capacity most able to accommodate new assets such as destroyers. Additionally, Naval Station Everett and the Pacific Northwest provide our sailors with the highest quality of life in the country.”
02.13.2012	In letter sent Monday, WA Senators and Representatives back Department of Labor emergency assistance for 700 Kimberly-Clark workers transitioning to new jobsWASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter sent today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), U.S. Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA-01), U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA-02), and U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA-09) called for approval of emergency assistance for Kimberly-Clark workers in Everett, who lost their jobs and are transitioning to new employment. In a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis, the Washington delegation members supported a quick decision on the Snohomish County Workforce Development Council’s application for a Workforce Investment Act (WIA) Dual-Enrollment National Emergency Grant, which would provide additional services to 700 workers and their families as they transition to new jobs. On December 20, 2011, the Association of Washington Pulp and Paper Workers announced that the plant’s workers would receive Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which supports job training, relocation assistance and other reemployment services. A National Emergency Grant (NEG) will provide services not available under TAA, including transportation and childcare assistance as workers look for new employment.“Time is of the essence,” the members wrote in the letter sent today. “Workers from across the Northwest region of the state have been impacted; many of whom have already been laid off and are now searching for work. Additionally, many are primary-wage earners and the loss of income could be devastating to their families. Thus, it is critically important that this application receive the Department of Labor’s fullest consideration and be processed as quickly as possible.”The WIA’s NEGs are discretionary awards made by the Secretary of Labor when a significant number of workers at a facility are displaced and in need of assistance that can’t be met through standard WIA programs. The WIA’s various services have helped thousands of Washingtonians looking for work. During the last program year, July 2010 to June 2011, more than 364,000 Washington residents were served by WIA-funded programs in some way. The complete text of the letter sent today follows: February 13, 2012Secretary Hilda L. Solis U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Solis:We are writing to express our strong support for the Washington State Employment Security Department and its subgrant recipient, the Workforce Development Council of Snohomish County, in its application for a National Emergency Grant to address the impact of the closure of the Kimberly-Clark facility in Everett, Washington. On September 20, 2011, Kimberly-Clark announced that efforts to sell its Everett, Washington paper products facility were not successful and the plant would close by March 31, 2012. The facility has been a hallmark of the Everett waterfront for nearly 80 years and employed more than 700 workers in the area as of last year. The impact of its closure will undoubtedly be felt across the region for years to come. The Association of Washington Pulp and Paper Workers, which represent the employees at the facility, filed a Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) petition with the U.S. Department of Labor. The petition was certified on December 16, 2011. This is a positive step, but more resources are necessary to support the impacted workers as they search for new jobs, develop new skills, and continue to provide for their families. A Dual-Enrollment National Emergency Grant will help in these efforts and support services not available under TAA.Time is of the essence. Workers from across the Northwest region of the state have been impacted; many of whom have already been laid off and are now searching for work. Additionally, many are primary-wage earners and the loss of income could be devastating to their families. Thus, it is critically important that this application receive the Department of Labor’s fullest consideration and be processed as quickly as possible.Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Maria Cantwell United States Senate Patty MurrayUnited States SenateJay InsleeUnited States CongressRick Larsen United States Congress Adam SmithUnited States CongressCC: Department of Labor Region VI staff ###
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in support of the STOCK Act, which would clarify current prohibitions against insider trading on non-public information by lawmakers, administration officials and senior staff of the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government. The bill would also impose new disclosure requirements for lawmakers to report any stock or securities transactions within 45 days of when the transaction occurs. Larsen is a co-sponsor of the bill.“With this vote, Congress is making a strong statement that we will not tolerate public officials using their positions for personal financial gain,” Larsen said. “I co-sponsored and voted for this bill because I believe strongly that we need to work hard to earn the public’s trust and make it clear that I and every other government official play by the same rules as everyone else.”
02.08.2012	WASHINGTON—Reps. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Adam Smith, WA-09, today announced $2 million in funding for two Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration projects. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funds will go to the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project in Marysville and the Seahurst Beach Restoration Project in Burien. “I am pleased the Army Corps has recognized the importance of moving ahead on the Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project,” Larsen said. “I spoke to Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy last week and I stressed the significance of the work and expressed the community’s support for continuing the work.” “Seahurst Park serves as a key location for research, education and recreation in Puget Sound and I’m happy the Army Corps has prioritized its restoration with funding support,” Smith said. “This project will help protect endangered wildlife and will ensure our shoreline remains intact.” The Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration Project is part of a 350-acre project just south of Marysville, between the city’s wastewater treatment plant and the residential neighborhoods on the hill on Sunnyside Boulevard. The project will restore the tidal marsh that existed prior to farming. The project includes levee breaching, levee setbacks, channel restoration and planting of native flora. The project is critical for regional salmon recovery as it restores juvenile salmon habitat, and increases tidal habitats for waterfowl and shorebirds. The Seahurst Phase II Ecosystem Restoration Project is the second phase of a partnership effort between the City of Burien and the Army Corps to remove and reduce the impact of bulkheads to the nearshore and restore shoreline in Puget Sound. Completion would result in the largest nearshore restoration in the area and will renovate beach habitat to protect endangered wildlife. Each year, Seahurst serves as an outdoor classroom to researchers and more than 10,000 students who receive environmental education about the beach and shoreline restoration efforts. The project is endorsed by the Puget Sound Partnership and has significant support from the scientific and academic community within Washington State. The funding for the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Program is included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ work plan for fiscal year 2012, which was provided to Congress this week. For more information on the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Program, visit https://www.nws.usace.army.mil/PublicMenu/Menu.cfm?sitename=RPPS&pagename=home_page. For more information on the Qwuloot Estuary Restoration Project, visit https://www.tulalip.nsn.us/qwuloolt/index.html. For more information on the Seahurst Phase II Ecosystem Restoration Project, visit https://www.BurienWA.gov/SeahurstPark.
02.08.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of a line-item veto to give the President power to eliminate wasteful spending in bills. Larsen’s vote in favor of H.R. 3521 follows his vote yesterday for the Civilian Property Realignment Act, which would allow for the federal government to sell off surplus federal properties. Both bills passed the House of Representatives.“If we are serious about reducing the deficit, then we need to give the President the power to cut wasteful pork barrel spending out of bills passed by Congress,” Larsen said. “The line-item veto will help ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and pet projects are not snuck into major bills. I remain committed to rooting out wasteful spending as part of a balanced approach to cut the deficit.”
02.08.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced seven grants totaling more than $8.6 million to build and modernize affordable housing and prevent crime on Indian reservations in Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties. The grants were awarded under the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Indian Housing Block Grant (IHBG) program. “These grants will expand affordable housing on Indian reservations and make these communities safer,” Larsen said. “One of my top priorities is making sure we are developing and enhancing local initiatives that improve affordable housing.” The details of the grants are as follows: Snohomish County:Stillaguamish Housing Authority – $200,258Tulalip Tribes – $2,714,330Skagit County:Samish Nation – $689,571Sauk-Suiattle Tribe – $407,846Swinomish Housing Authority – $1,068,617Whatcom County:Lummi Housing Authority – $2,918,675Nooksack Tribe – $651,532The IHBG program provides funding to build, expand and improve affordable housing, provide housing services, and boost crime prevention and public safety programs on Indian reservations. For more information, visit https://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/ih/grants/ihbg.cfm. ###
02.07.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the Swinomish Channel in Skagit County will be fully dredged this year after receiving $2.277 million in U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funds. Larsen spoke to U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy last week and stressed his support for funding of the project.“This funding is a major boost for Western Skagit County, which depends on the Swinomish Channel as an economic driver,” Larsen said. “The channel is overdue for maintenance, but this substantial investment will make sure it is fully dredged this year. I told Assistant Secretary Darcy that the community strongly supports the project and I am pleased the Army Corps has recognized the value of this investment.”The funding for the Swinomish Channel dredging is included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ work plan for fiscal year 2012, which was provided to Congress this week.Today, Larsen received this letter from the Skagit County Board of Commissioners regarding the funding for the Swinomish Channel dredging.
02.07.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced that the Skagit General Investigation (G.I.) Study will receive $700,000 in federal funds from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for 2012. Larsen urged U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy to provide funding for the study in a phone call and a letter last week.“This is great news for Skagit County, and shows the strength of the Skagit G.I. and the community’s united support for the project,” Larsen said. “This is a major commitment from the Army Corps and it means the Skagit G.I. is moving forward. I made it clear to Assistant Secretary Darcy last week that the G.I. is at a critical stage. This funding pushes the study toward completion, bringing the entire Skagit Valley community one step closer to constructing flood control projects that will protect the lives and the property in the community.” The funding for the Skagit G.I. is included in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ work plan for fiscal year 2012, which was provided to Congress this week.
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after voting no on the bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Larsen is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which has jurisdiction over the FAA.“I have long sought a serious and comprehensive FAA reauthorization bill that invests in our economy, builds our infrastructure and creates jobs,” Larsen said. “There is a lot in this bill I support, and I would have loved to have voted yes. But the bill also includes attacks on organized labor that have no place in this legislation. For that reason I had no choice but to oppose this bill.“The bill makes necessary investments in aviation infrastructure, which will help airports build and expand capacity, creating jobs. Airports are centers of business activity and these investments will generate jobs by boosting the economy. In Northwest Washington, Paine Field, Bellingham International Airport and Arlington airport have all benefited from these FAA dollars.“The FAA will continue developing the Next Generation Air Transportation System to increase the safety, efficiency and reliability of our air transport system. This will help airlines save on fuel, lowering costs for consumers, and improve on-time performance.“The bill improves passenger protections by requiring airlines to have contingency plans for passengers stuck on airplanes during long delays. Now airlines will be required to allow passengers to leave the planes during lengthy delays and planes will be required to have food, water and medical supplies for passengers in these situations.“Democratic negotiators were able to remove one egregious anti-union provision that would have made it nearly impossible for employees at airlines and railroads to organize. But Republicans implemented a new 50 percent requirement to call for a union election that would drastically rewrite a statute that has been in place for more than 75 years. The implications of these changes are far-reaching. Airline and railroad workers who have worked for decades ensuring fairness and safety in their work environments would suddenly be subject to significant losses. Changes as drastic as these need to be given a full debate in Congress, not negotiated privately and quietly attached to this bill.“It is unfortunate that in the end I was not able to support this legislation. I know it will do a lot of good for Northwest Washington and across the nation. But I cannot support those provisions which undermine workers’ rights to organize and collectively bargain.”
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, tonight voted against a Republican transportation bill. Larsen has long supported a long-term transportation infrastructure bill that creates jobs and invests in the economy. He opposed this bill because it fails to make needed investments and decreases highway safety."This bill was drafted in secret, underfunds critical transportation needs and undermines highway safety,” Larsen said. “The bill we need invests in our railways, bridges and highways, strengthens our transit systems, and creates jobs. This bill does not meet these tests."Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said this is the ‘worst transportation bill’ he has ever seen. I agree. I will continue to work with my colleagues to improve this bill on the House floor and in the House-Senate conference committee."I am disappointed that the bill misses an important opportunity to invest in large-scale, job-creating projects by not continuing the Projects of National and Regional Significance Account. We need a competitive, merit-based program to invest in freight projects. Ensuring a dedicated stream of investment in significant projects around our ports and trade corridors is critical to U.S. productivity and global economic competitiveness."I am concerned about a provision that prevents systems like Sound Transit from receiving dollars. These funds are critical to run buses for local commuters in South Snohomish County. I supported an amendment to restore federal funding eligibility for Sound Transit and other similar transit agencies."The bill protects ferry funding which is critical to Northwest Washington. This funding will be an important tool to make sure that much-needed improvements to our system, like improving the Mukilteo Ferry Terminal, get the support they need. I will continue working to make sure ferry programs are properly supported in the final legislation."My colleagues and I successfully removed the bill’s provision to increase maximum truck weights on interstate highways. The nature of interstate commerce requires that we have a national policy on truck weights. If we were to allow heavier trucks on the highways, we would put even greater strain on the pavement and bridges which are already strained and underfunded. Greater truck sizes also bring increased safety risks. I supported an amendment to provide a definitive study on the impacts of increasing truck weights so we can base our decision on real data. Safety groups have raised concerns about this provision, and I think we need to further understand all the consequences of this decision before moving forward."
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the Senate passed the STOCK Act. The bill, which Larsen is co-sponsoring in the House, would ban insider trading by members of Congress, administration officials and others who are privy to confidential information on companies because of their work.“I applaud the Senate for passing a strong bill to prevent members of Congress and administration officials from trading stocks based on confidential information,” Larsen said. “I am a co-sponsor of the House version of this bill, and I look forward to taking up and passing this bill next week.”
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Seniors in Washington state saved hundreds of dollars in prescription drug costs in 2011 thanks to the Affordable Care Act, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued a report today highlighting the savings seniors realized in 2011 because of the health reform law.“The Affordable Care Act is saving seniors in Washington hundreds of dollars a year,” Larsen said. “Seniors in Washington state who hit the donut hole saved an average of $598 each last year because of the health reform law. By 2020 the donut hole will be closed completely and over the next 10 years, typical seniors on Medicare will save an average of nearly $4,200.“Those who want to repeal the Affordable Care Act have to explain why they are willing to increase seniors’ health care costs, especially when so many of those seniors live on fixed incomes.”The Department of Health and Human Services also reports:Across the United States 3.6 million people with Medicare saved $2.1 billion on their prescription drugs because of the Affordable Care Act.Seniors with high prescription drug costs will save as much as $16,000 by 2021 because of the Affordable Care Act.The average premiums for Medicare Advantage enrollees in 2012 are 7 percent lower than in 2011. Since the Affordable Care Act became law, the premiums have decreased by 16 percent.
02.02.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement regarding a provision in the transportation authorization bill to allow an increase in maximum truck weights. The bill is being marked up today by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, of which Larsen is a member. “The nature of interstate commerce requires that we have a national policy on truck weights.“The challenge to increasing truck weights is the additional maintenance and preservation of pavement and bridges that will be necessary beyond the underfunded efforts we live with today. We have today a transportation bill that does not meet needs for new construction or maintenance and preservation. It does not now make sense to adopt a policy that will increase maintenance and preservation costs.“There are also significant concerns that allowing larger trucks would increase safety risks on our highways. The safety implications must be fully understood before we move forward with a decision.“I will support the amendment from Rep. Jerry Costello that requires the Department of Transportation to definitively study the impacts of increasing truck weights so we have more current information instead of using decade-old information to make a decision.”
01.31.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Skagit County Commissioners and the mayors of Mount Vernon, Sedro-Woolley, Anacortes, Burlington and La Conner sent letters today to U.S. Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy asking her to commit the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to fund the Skagit General Investigation Study. In the letters the officials highlight the community’s support for the critical project and highlight the vital need to continue funding.“The need to continue the Skagit General Investigation Study is clear, and the community is united behind the project,” Larsen said. “The Army Corps of Engineers must follow through on its commitment by funding the project through this year. Too much good work making the community safer would be put at risk by a lapse in funding.”“We appreciate the hard work of our Congressional delegation and the strong support of our cities, towns, and community as we move forward to complete the General Investigation,” said Kenneth A. Dahlstedt, Chairman of the Skagit County Board of Commissioners. “When people come together, big things get done. We appreciate everyone’s support in these tough financial times. Our community is unified in finding a solution to the devastation that a major flood will cause.”The letters to Darcy are below.Letter from Rep. Rick LarsenJanuary 27, 2012The Honorable Jo-Ellen DarcyAssistant Secretary of the Army108 Army PentagonWashington, DC 20310-0108Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy:I am writing to encourage the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allocate capability funding to the Skagit General Investigation Study (G.I.) for the remainder of FY2012. The Skagit Valley community is united behind the Skagit G.I. which provides the basis for comprehensive flood control projects. The Skagit G.I. has been progressing for more than fourteen years, funded primarily by Congressional appropriations each eligible year. With a long history of devastating floods, the communities along the river have been looking to construct flood control projects that will increase safety for those living in the Skagit River valley.The Corps itself has recognized how important this G.I. study is. Through the Reset Initiative the Corps gave the Skagit G.I. a much needed higher priority level to bring about its completion in a fiscally responsible manner. An interruption to the forward progress of the study due to a stoppage in funding would be a disservice to the residents of the Skagit Valley. Less than $4 million is needed to complete the investigation. Allowing the Skagit G.I. funding to lapse would waste the $6.5 million of federal funds already invested in addition to the matching funds contributed by the local community. With each flood comes a new threat to the communities of Skagit County. The sense of urgency behind the Skagit G.I. has never diminished. The communities of Skagit Valley are home to some of the most committed and responsive flood fighting organizations and volunteers. The people that provide the communities’ flood response need comprehensive flood solutions. The best way to deliver these needed solutions is the Skagit G.I. On behalf of the residents of Skagit County, I urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allocate capability funding to the Skagit General Investigation Study for the remainder of FY2012 from agency discretionary funds. Sincerely,Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd DistrictLetter from Skagit County Commissioners and MayorsJanuary 30, 2012The Honorable Jo-Ellen DarcyAssistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works)108 Army PentagonWashington, DC 20310-0108RE: 2012 Funding for the Skagit River General Investigation Study (Washington State)Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy:We write to request your help to provide funding for the Skagit River General Investigation (GI) Study in 2012.The Skagit River represents an ongoing and dangerous flood threat to our region. We know the Skagit River General Investigation Study is the only realistic process for achieving a regional flood solution. As you may be aware, this Study has made significant progress over the past two years due to the dedicated efforts of the Corps of Engineers staff at the District, Division, and Headquarters levels. During this time, the Study has produced valuable and relevant technical information which is already being used by our staffs to plan for future floods. The momentum that has been achieved is a tribute to all who have worked on this challenging Study, and we believe it is critically important to retain funding in 2012 in order to maintain that momentum.In 2011, the Skagit River Study received $708,000 in federal funding ($651,000 of FY11 funds, and $57,000 of prior year funds). We urge the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allocate capability funding to the Skagit General Investigation study for the remainder of FY2012 from agency discretionary funds. The Skagit Community is united in its support of the Skagit General Investigation study. We are enthusiastic about the progress that has been made, and we think it is critically important to maintain the momentum that has been achieved. We sincerely appreciate the efforts of Congressman Rick Larsen, Senator Patty Murray, and Senator Maria Cantwell.Thank you very much for your consideration of this funding request.SincerelyRon WesenSkagit County CommissionerDistrict 1Kenneth A. Dahlstedt, ChairmanSkagit County CommissionerDistrict 2Sharon D. DillonSkagit County CommissionerDistrict 3Jill Boudreau, MayorCity of Mount VernonMike Anderson, MayorCity of Sedro-WoolleyDean Maxwell, MayorCity of AnacortesSteve Sexton, MayorCity of BurlingtonRamon Hayes, MayorTown of La Conner
01.30.2012	WASHINGTON—Farmers in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, San Juan and Island counties are eligible to apply for federal disaster support, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. The counties are included in a list of 15 in Washington designated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as primary natural disaster areas due to agriculture losses caused by excessive rain, flooding, below normal temperatures, high winds, frosts and freezes in 2011.“Farmers who were hit with production losses because of severe weather last year should contact their local Farm Service Agency office to report their losses and file for support they are eligible for,” Larsen said. “Farmers who need guidance or assistance can also contact my office in Everett at 425-252-3188.”Farm operators in these counties who have suffered production losses due to the severe weather in 2011 are eligible to apply for Farm Service Agency emergency loans and the Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program.To learn more or to file claims, farm operators can contact the Farm Service Agency office listed below:Snohomish County: https://go.usa.gov/nU9Skagit, Island and San Juan counties: https://go.usa.gov/nUPWhatcom County: https://go.usa.gov/nU5 For more information on the Farm Service Agency loan program, visit: https://go.usa.gov/nUK.For more information on the Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program, visit: https://go.usa.gov/nUk.
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement tonight following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. “The President laid out a strong agenda to create jobs and strengthen America,” Larsen said. “To create jobs in Northwest Washington, we need to invest in transportation, promote our exports, and strengthen our manufacturing workforce. These are the right steps to not only create jobs today, but to secure the future of our economic recovery and the United States’ global leadership.” View Rep. Larsen's video response to the State of the Union below:
01.18.2012	January 18, 2012As Prepared for DeliveryThanks to John Frisbie and Erin Ennis for the opportunity to say a few words today, and thank you all for attending.2012 is going to be a critical year for the U.S.-China relationship. There are a number of important events and shifts in policy that are occurring simultaneously within both the countries. These changes could lead to greater cooperation for the U.S. and China—or greater confrontation.The first shift taking place is the U.S’s pivot toward Asia – a natural evolution. The U.S. is a Pacific nation, and is committed to being an active partner with friends and allies in the region. The U.S. takes no relationship in the Asia Pacific for granted. The countries of the Asia Pacific are at a geopolitical crossroads and the United States must continue to foster strong cultural, diplomatic and economic relationships with the region as we move forward.The successful passage of the Korea free trade agreement and President Obama’s commitment to successfully negotiate a Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement are extremely important for our nation’s exporters and solidifies the U.S. commitment to the region economically.Secretary Clinton’s trip to Burma, the President’s attendance at the East Asia Summit and the recent hosting of the APEC Summit by the U.S in Hawaii all underline the fact that the U.S. is a Pacific nation and is not going away.I also believe that the recently released Defense Strategic Review by the Department of Defense sends a strong signal that our national interests lie in the Asia Pacific as well.The perception by some is that the pivot to Asia is a challenge to China. In my view, the reality is much more complex and positive.I agree with Ken Lieberthal (former NSC Director of Asia and current Director of Thornton China Center at Brookings) when he says that “the Obama administration does not seek to confront China across the board. Rather, it has adopted a two-pronged approach: to reaffirm and strengthen cooperative ties with China; and to establish a strong and credible American presence across Asia to both encourage constructive Chinese behavior and to provide confidence to other countries in the region.”Last year’s summit between President Hu and President Obama set a positive and constructive tone for the U.S.-China relationship and I expect this to continue through 2012.The second shift occurring in 2012 are the elections in Taiwan and the U.S.—and the selection of new Members of the Politburo Standing Committee in China. The Taiwanese have reelected President Ma, which is positive for the Taiwan-China relationship – and also positive for the U.S.-China relationship.The Presidential election in the U.S. could pose some challenges, however. Jobs and the economy will continue to be the number one issue for Americans – followed not far behind by debts and deficits. However, when foreign policy is discussed I believe that the topics will be Iran, Syria, North Korea – and China. And only China is both a foreign policy concern and an economic one. It will be important for those who engage the Chinese government this year to remind them that the rhetoric heard on the campaign trail is not the same as policy of the U.S. government.Lastly will be the selection of the nine individuals who make up China’s Politburo Standing Committee later this year. It is expected that seven out of the committee’s nine current members, including President Hu and Premier Wen, will step down. This will mean that the principal decision makers in China will be new – and could rule China for the better part of a decade or longer.I am not an expert on Chinese politics but I have developed relationships with a number of the individuals who are vying for the nine seats. Current Vice Premier Wang Qishan and current CCP Organization Dept Head Li Yuanchao are also anticipated to obtain seats and perhaps be among the top four. I have met both on a number of occasions in both Beijing and in Washington DC, and am encouraged. Xi Jinping, who will visit the U.S. sometime in the early part of this year, is expected to become the new General Secretary and President and current Executive Vice President Li Keqiang is expected to become Premier. Other Standing Committee candidates such as Bo Xilai in Chongqing or Wang Yang in Guangdong (both have acquired the nickname “the two cannons” according to Cheng Li) make for a fascinating and important selection.While we, understandably, view the leadership selections in China through the lens of U.S. interests, the Chinese view it through the lens of their own needs. China’s economy is slowing. As I have said in the past, President Hu Jintao doesn’t wake up worried about what 300 million Americans think – he wakes up worried about what 1.3 billion Chinese people think. And a slowing Chinese economy is probably keeping him awake.Chinese gross domestic product expanded by 8.9% in the final three months of 2011. That is down from 9.1% in the previous quarter.Chinese leaders are concerned about rising inflation and its impact on growth and have serious concerns about the growing income disparity between rich and poor. China will focus on solving the aforementioned domestic issues: rural-to-urban movement, income disparity, inflation, and increasing the quality of life for all Chinese.According to the officials with whom I have met, China will respond to these challenges in the next five years by raising wages of working people including 400 million workers, incentivizing workers to go to less developed areas, and subsidizing low-income education and housing. These programs will be expensive.Vice Premier Wang Qishan, in particular, was clear that China's export orientation is a thing of the past and that China's leadership is, in fact, serious about rebalancing its economy to depend less on exports and more on domestic consumer demand.ImplicationsFirst, U.S companies – particularly small and medium sized businesses – must continue to seek way to export to the growing Chinese markets. I have established a District Export program in my district office that links small businesses in my district with the Federal and state resources that help small businesses export their products – and not their jobs – overseas.Second, the U.S. government and business community must continue to press China on IPR protection and indigenous innovation.IPR protection is critical for innovation for both American and Chinese entrepreneurs.As the Administration works with the Chinese on these challenges, it’s also important that we enforce those trade laws already on the books and ensure there is a level playing field for U.S. companies.The U.S. Trade Representative’s Office must continue to identify, monitor, and enforce the full range of international trade issues to ensure that American workers, farmers, ranchers, and businesses receive the maximum benefit under our international trade agreements.Next, the U.S. must continue to seek ways to dialogue with the Chinese – and certainly not cut off dialogues that already exist.Last year, Congress passed a funding bill that included language to cut funds for dialogues between the U.S. and China on space and technology issues. This approach to the U.S.-China relationship is misguided.As the U.S. and China continue to learn about each other and grow the relationship more dialogue is needed – not less. This is particularly true at the military-to-military level. Members of Congress and the Administration must continue to support a healthy, stable, and reliable military-to-military relationship. This is important not only for the bilateral relationship but also for the safety of U.S. and Chinese sailors who work closely, but not in coordination, in many areas of operation.We also need to seek ways to increase the number of U.S.-China exchanges. Government officials at the U.S. State and Chinese Provincial levels are interested in increasing the number of exchanges and this should be encouraged at the Federal level.We also must continue to work with the Chinese on programs that both sides strongly support – and seek to find more.One example is the Administration’s 100,000 Strong Initiative - a national effort designed to increase the number and diversify the composition of American students studying in China.In November, the State Department and the Institute of International Education (IIE) released the annual Open Doors Report, which showed another large increase (23 percent) of Chinese coming to study in the United States for a total of 158,000 in academic year 2010-2011.The Report also showed a very small increase - less than 2 percent) - to just under 14,000 in Americans studying in China in the 2009-2010 academic year – just before the Initiative was formally launched. The Report underscores the importance of the 100,000 Strong Initiative. As co-chair of the Congressional U.S.-China Working Group, I am looking forward to highlighting the 100,000 Strong Initiative in Congress this year.One last issue I want to highlight before I take questions is the importance of Chinese investment in the United States.Chinese investment in the United States creates jobs for Americans. The value of Chinese direct investment in the U.S. is very modest, representing just 0.1 percent of all foreign direct investment in the U.S.However, it is growing. According to Daniel Rosen from the Rhodium Group, China’s FDI in the U.S. increased 130 percent in both 2009 and 2010.Investors across China are the same as investors in any other country – they are interested in investing money in the U.S. or in other countries and want to see a return on that investment.I agree with Rosen when he says that Chinese direct investment is well screened for national security considerations under existing U.S. law and policy processes.Housed in the Department of Treasury, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) is directed to determine the effect of such transactions on the national security of the United States.Some in Congress and elsewhere are concerned that Chinese foreign direct investment in the United States poses a threat. Likewise, there is a concern by the Chinese that the U.S. uses CFIUS and other FDI screening processes to punish China. Neither is true and both presumptions harm our ability to engage further and create jobs here in the United States.We need to be moving forward on a bilateral investment treaty (BIT) with China that would promote and regulate foreign direct investment flows between our two countries. I understand the Administration continues work on updating the U.S. model BIT. I encourage them to conclude that process soon so we can begin official discussions with the Chinese on a U.S.-China BIT.Thank you for being here today. I look forward to your questions.
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA), which are pending anti-online piracy bills in Congress.“I support strong efforts to curb piracy and protect intellectual property, but SOPA and PIPA create unacceptable threats to free speech and free access to the internet,” Larsen said. “I have heard from many of my constituents in Northwest Washington who are deeply concerned about the potential impacts of SOPA and PIPA. Online piracy is a serious problem that costs U.S. businesses billions of dollars. Government agencies must be empowered to stop and prosecute intellectual property thieves. But in doing so we cannot undermine freedom of speech or jeopardize the free flow of information on the internet. I will work with my colleagues to see that any final anti-online piracy legislation protects the internet and does not encroach on free speech rights. Until then, I will oppose SOPA and PIPA in their current forms.”
01.11.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, sent a letter to Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Jonathan Greenert in support of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. In the letter Larsen notes the base’s importance in the administration’s strategic pivot to the Asia-Pacific region and urges the Navy to maintain its commitment to bring the P-8A Poseidon aircraft to Whidbey Island. Larsen wrote his letter in response to a letter he received from Adm. Greenert in December. The full text of the letter follows: Admiral Jonathan Greenert Chief of Naval Operations Department of the Navy The Pentagon Washington, DC 205350-2000 Dear Admiral Greenert: Thank you for your response letter of December 7, 2011 regarding the basing of P-8As at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI). As you noted, NASWI has long been a model Department of Defense (DoD) installation, proving essential to Naval operations in the Pacific and Arctic regions. As you are aware, last November President Obama announced that as operations in Iraq conclude and with the continued drawdown of operations in Afghanistan, the United States’ interests will pivot towards East Asia. I fully support the President’s decision and look forward to working with the Administration and the Department of Defense on this transition. With this pivot, the importance of identifying anti-submarine warfare and maritime patrol capabilities in future conflict planning increases. The P-8As fulfill these capabilities while also offsetting the advancement in submarine capabilities by potential near-peer competitors in the region. NASWI continues to be a key future home base for the P-8As. While NAS Jacksonville fulfills an important function in the Atlantic region, the P-8As to be stationed there will not have a significant impact on the East Asia pivot strategy. Similarly, although NAS Keneohe Bay will have a significant impact on the East Asia pivot strategy, they are at capacity and cannot home base more P-8As. The need for the P-8A’s capabilities in East Asia, mixed with current basing limitations suggests that the Department should remain committed to the 2008 Record of Decision. We will continue to work with you as this process unfolds in the months and years to come. NASWI will always be one of the best retention and national protection tools for the Navy and it stands ready for its new P-8A mission. Sincerely, Rick Larsen United States Representative Washington State, 2nd District ###
01.05.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after President Obama released the Department of Defense strategy review.“The strategic review appropriately realigns our national security strategy to focus on the critically important Asia-Pacific region,” said Larsen, co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group. “Congress, the President and the Department of Defense need to make hard choices to create sustainable national security policy and tackle our deficit. But I am pleased the administration is maintaining its commitment to the Asia-Pacific region which is increasingly important to U.S. national security and our economy.“An intensified focus on the Asia-Pacific means that Northwest Washington will only continue to grow as a strategically important center for our Navy. Naval Station Everett and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island are already key components of the Asia-Pacific mission. Even as we slow growth at the Department of Defense, I will continue working to make sure these bases are properly resourced, including by bringing the P-8A Poseidons to Whidbey.”###
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed Boeing’s announcement that it would move work on the KC-46 Air Force tanker from its facilities in Kansas to Northwest Washington.“This is great news to start the New Year,” Larsen said. “This decision to further invest in the women and men of Boeing’s Northwest Washington facilities is another reason we all worked so hard to land the tanker. This news means more good manufacturing jobs are coming to Northwest Washington and our nation will receive an outstanding tanker that will better serve the needs of our Air Force.”Read Boeing’s announcement here: https://boeing.mediaroom.com/index.php?s=43&item=2090.
12.29.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced his four principal nominees to the service academies. The principal nominees from Lake Stevens, Sedro-Woolley, Sultan and Stanwood will be granted spots in the academies next year pending successful completion of their final year of high school. Larsen will also make 10 general nominations to the academies. Larsen told each of the principal nominees of his decision this week.“Each of these students has demonstrated exceptional academic and personal achievement. I am confident that each will go on to serve our nation with integrity,” Larsen said. “These four impressive students have every door open to them. Their choice to enter the military academies and pledge their service to the United States is inspiring and praiseworthy.”Colton McCoy of Lake Stevens will be one of Larsen’s nominees to the U.S. Air Force Academy. McCoy, a member of the National Honor Society and the track and field team at Arlington High School, is an accomplished commander of the school’s Air Force Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (AFJROTC). McCoy, who commutes to Arlington High School specifically because of the AFJROTC program, is interested in becoming a combat or search and rescue pilot. McCoy organized the high school’s Veterans Day assembly this year.Ming Wagoner of Sedro-Woolley will be Larsen’s other nominee to the U.S. Air Force Academy. The captain of the girls swim team at Sedro-Woolley High School, Wagoner pushes herself academically. Her grandfather was an admiral in the Taiwanese Navy and she speaks fluent Mandarin. Her father served as an officer in the U.S. Navy and her sister is currently in the Army ROTC at Washington State University. She spearheaded a project to beautify the Sedro-Woolley library. She wants to be a pilot or a medical officer.Sean Crowley of Sultan will be Larsen’s nominee to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Crowley attends Aviation High School in Des Moines where he co-founded an intramural sports league, was elected ASB class officer and competes on the speech and debate team. Crowley already attended a summer session at West Point and would like to study international relations at West Point’s Combating Terrorism Center. Crowley is a soccer referee who refs for regional and state tournaments.Connor Martin of Stanwood will be Larsen’s nominee to the U.S. Naval Academy. Martin is at the top of his class at Stanwood High School where he is the starting pitcher for the varsity baseball team, volunteers as a trainer for the girls varsity soccer team, and works as a referee for the local youth soccer league. He hopes to continue playing baseball at Annapolis. Martin says his parents instilled in him a commitment to service leading him to want to serve in the Navy.
12.23.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives approved by voice vote a bill to extend unemployment benefits, protect seniors’ access to health care and preserve middle class tax relief.“This bipartisan bill is a victory for all Americans,” Larsen said. “House Republicans finally stopped playing politics and listened to their constituents and colleagues. Extending unemployment insurance, protecting seniors’ access to health care and giving tax relief to the middle class will keep the economy moving and help speed recovery. We need to create jobs, not play politics with the American economy.”
12.22.2011	WASHINGTON—More than 4,400 residents of Whatcom, Skagit, Island and San Juan counties will lose unemployment insurance in the next few months if Congress does not act to extend the program by the end of the year, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Larsen was briefed yesterday by the Northwest Workforce Council in Bellingham on the jobless situation and the effect of Congressional inaction on unemployment insurance.“Unemployment insurance is literally what lets families keep food on the table and a roof over their heads, “ Larsen said. “It is simply unacceptable that more than 4,400 Whatcom, Skagit, Island and San Juan residents would lose this lifeline simply because House Republicans are playing brinksmanship with the economy yet again.”Economists say that unemployment insurance accounts for an important part of economic growth, and if it is not extended the recovery could slip.The Senate recently passed a widely bipartisan bill to extend unemployment insurance, continue middle class tax relief and protect seniors’ access to their doctors. Republican leadership has refused to allow that bill to come for an up or down vote in the House of Representatives.
12.21.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today announced 31 grants totaling $6.3 million for programs that provide shelter and services to the homeless. The U.S. Housing and Urban Development grants are being provided to existing homeless programs to make sure they can continue their services.“Too many families in our communities don’t know where they will sleep from night to night,” Larsen said. “These grants will keep the doors open and the lights on at these facilities that keep the homeless safe and warm.”Whatcom CountyBellingham Housing Authority / Shelter Plus Care Sponsor Based: $865,788Bellingham Housing Authority / Shelter Plus Care Tenant Based: $222,552Sun Community Service - Gladstone House: $36,013Northwest Youth Services - Skagit County Transitional Living Program; Step Up: $261,785Opportunity Council - Dorothy Place: $140,868Opportunity Council - Increased Case Management: $84,130Opportunity Council - Northwest Rapid Re-housing Partnership: $218,879Opportunity Council - Whatcom Homeless Service Center Master Leasing: $47,174Island CountyHousing Authority of Island County / Island County Shelter Plus Care: $37,848Skagit CountySkagit County Community Action Agency - Family Development: $50,054Snohomish CountyCompass Health - Islander Apartments: $34,600 Compass Health - Harrison Apartments: $57,259 Compass Health - McKinney Shared: $41,393 Housing Authority of Snohomish County / Shelter Plus Care #5: $2,733,912 Housing Hope - Kennedy Court Apartments: $29,828 Housing Hope - Vouch for Children: $80,315 Snohomish County- Alderbrooke: $87,585 Snohomish County- Autumn Leaf House: $70,369 Snohomish County- Camellia House: $23,609 Snohomish County- CCS Reallocated PSH: $60,349 Snohomish County- Chronic Leasing Intensive Program: $175,513 Snohomish County- Cocoon Complex: $163,659 Snohomish County- Domestic Violence Transitional Housing: $109,270 Snohomish County- Helper's of People with HIV/AIDS: $35,931 Snohomish County- Housing Hope Village: $164,820 Snohomish County- Lervick Family Village: $81,523 Snohomish County- Long Term Leasing for the Chronically Homeless Disabled: $124,476 Snohomish County- Monte Cristo: $101,356 Snohomish County- Project Reunite: $43,636 Snohomish County- Transitional Housing for Families: $75,435 Snohomish County- TSA Permanent Housing Program: $58,203
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON—The Impact Aid program to help fund school districts serving children living on military bases or Indian reservations will receive $45 million in 2012, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. The funding was included in H.R. 2005 which Congress passed with Larsen’s support last week. The funding includes $5 million for schools serving children with severe disabilities.“Impact Aid is vitally important for school districts in Oak Harbor, Ferndale and Marysville,” Larsen said. “While I am pleased we were able to increase the funding from the original House bill, it still is not as much as I would have liked. I am also continuing to fight for legislation that would make sure school districts receive the funds they are due in a timely manner.”Larsen’s bill, the Impact Aid Timely Repayment Act of 2011 (H.R. 2094) would require the Department of Education to pay school districts their Impact Aid funds in as little as two years instead of the five years currently required.
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON—Workers at the Kimberly-Clark Everett facility will receive federal Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, announced today. The assistance, including reemployment and job search services, training, health care, and income support, will be made available to employees of the Everett plant. “This vital assistance could not have come at a better time for the workers at Kimberly-Clark who are in a time of great uncertainty,” Larsen said. “These benefits, including important training, job placement, health care and income support, will be critical for the workers as they adjust and find new work. The workers at Kimberly-Clark deserved better than to have the plant close, and I will continue working to make sure they get the support they need in this difficult time.”Association of Western Pulp and Paper Workers Rep. Frank P Frank Prochaska also hailed the announcement.“While this won’t replace good paying jobs in Everett, these benefits will help all these workers transition to other meaningful work and will help our community better weather the impact of this loss to our local economy,” Prochaska said. “Many people worked very hard on this petition, and all deserve thanks.”Congress voted to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance program in October. The Trade Adjustment Assistance includes:Reemployment services: TAA-eligible workers can get help finding new jobs through the One-Stop Career Center, which offers employment counseling, resume writing and interview skills workshops, job referrals and more.Job search allowances: Workers can have eligible expenses from job searches outside the Everett area covered.Relocation allowances: Workers can have expenses from the cost of moving to a new area for a new job covered.Training: Workers can receive classroom training, on-the-job training, customized training and remedial educationIncome support: In addition to unemployment insurance, workers can receive Trade Readjustment Allowances.Health coverage: TAA-eligible workers may receive tax credits for 65 percent of their monthly health insurance premiums.For more information on the TAA benefits and for information on how to apply for individual benefits, visit: https://www.doleta.gov/tradeact/.
12.19.2011	WASHINGTON—Congressional Republicans are irresponsibly blocking a bipartisan deal that would protect Medicare and extend unemployment insurance and give tax relief to the middle class, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. House Republicans are vowing to vote down a bipartisan agreement to extend the provisions which passed the Senate on an 89 to 10 vote. If the provisions are not extended before the end of the month, doctors across the country will stop accepting Medicare patients, 50,000 Washington residents will lose unemployment insurance, and all middle-class workers will see their taxes increase.“House Republicans are once again irresponsibly bringing us to the brink, manufacturing another crisis that could hit middle-class Americans hard,” Larsen said. “I too would have preferred a deal that addressed these issues for a full year, but we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. These kinds of games are meeting people’s low expectations of Congress. The American people want to see us compromise and move forward together. That is exactly what this bill would do.“While the Tea Party is trying to be the Grinch that stole Christmas, I urge my colleagues to support this bill that would give the 100,000 seniors in my district access to the doctors they need and make sure that 50,000 families in Washington state don’t lose their unemployment insurance on January 1."
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the up to $60 million federal grant that Washington state will receive to increase access to high-quality early education programs. Washington is one of nine states to be awarded the Race to the Top-Early Learning Challenge grant from the U.S. Departments of Education and Health and Human Services.“I know how important support for early childhood education is,” Larsen said. “My wife worked for a local non-profit actively involved in early childhood development. She made sure I understood its importance. With this grant, Washington will not only serve its families, but will serve as a model for the nation as we improve early childhood education for all Americans.”For more details on the grant, visit: https://go.usa.gov/NDz and https://go.usa.gov/NDu.
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted in favor of a bill that funds government operations through September 2012. The omnibus appropriations act is expected to be approved by the Senate and signed by the President, thus preventing a government shutdown.“The spending levels in this bill are consistent with the tough caps that Congress put in place in this year’s Budget Control Act,” Larsen said. “Even so, this bill funds several of my priorities that are important to residents of Northwest Washington. It keeps Pell Grants for low-income students at $5,500, making sure that young people have access to quality higher education. It funds important energy efficiency programs for clean jobs. We also increased the nuclear non-proliferation budget to keep up with our goals to secure nuclear material and prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.“I am particularly pleased that the bill funds critical Navy aircraft with significant ties to Northwest Washington. The bill includes funding for 12 new Growlers and seven P-8A Poseidons, some of which will eventually be based on Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. Buying these aircraft strengthens our national security and will strengthen the economy of Whidbey Island. I am also pleased that members of the military will receive a 1.6 percent pay increase next year.”
12.15.2011	Will Continue Pressing Navy to Follow Through on 2008 DoD Record of Decision WASHINGTON—The U.S. Navy still intends to base P-8As at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island (NASWI) by 2017, Rep. Rick Larsen and Sen. Patty Murray, announced today. Larsen and Murray received letters this week from Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Jonathan Greenert confirming the intent as outlined in the 2008 Department of Defense Record of Decision. Larsen met with Greenert in October to urge the Navy to base the P-8As on Whidbey Island. Larsen and Murray also joined other members of the Washington Congressional delegation in writing a letter to Greenert with the request in September. “The Navy’s renewed statement of intent to base the P-8As at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island is great news for the Whidbey community,” Larsen said. “It is also the right decision for our national security. The P-8As will serve a vital role in our pivot to the Asia-Pacific region as a focus of security and economic interests. Whidbey Island is without a doubt the right place for these aircraft. I am going to keep the Navy’s feet to the fire to make sure they follow through on this plan so vital to Whidbey and the United States.” “This is good for the Navy, good for our defense, and good for the region,” said Senator Murray. “Whidbey will be a great home for to the P-8As and I’m pleased the Navy has recognized the many advantages of the base.” In his letters to Larsen and Murray, Greenert wrote, “NASWI has a long history as a model Department of Defense (DoD) installation, that is essential for Navy operations, and has a very positive impact on the local community and Pacific Northwest region.”
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, tonight voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act for 2012, a bill which sets Department of Defense spending and policy. Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, served on the House-Senate conference committee that produced the final bill.“First and foremost this bipartisan legislation supports our troops,” Larsen said. “By providing for a pay raise of 1.6 percent and providing for important tools like mine-resistant vehicles and technologies to combat improvised explosive devices, Congress is meeting its important duty to look after our troops who are serving their nation.“The bill also includes several provisions important to Northwest Washington. It provides $1 billion for purchase of Navy Growler jets, all of which are currently based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. It also authorizes $14.9 billion for Navy ship construction. Northwest Washington is a key base for Navy activities, and these programs will strengthen their presence in our region.“I’m also encouraged that the bill includes $2.3 billion for nuclear nonproliferation programs, and includes other important nonproliferation policies.“The detainee language that was in the earlier Senate bill has been appropriately modified. The language makes clear that no U.S. citizens can be detained by the military. The provision only applies to foreign Al Qaeda terrorists. Additionally the bill gives the President has a waiver to set aside the provision when he judges it to be in the interest of national security.“As we transition out of Iraq and wind down our presence in Afghanistan, one of my top priorities is pushing the Defense Department, specifically the Navy, to pivot to the Asia-Pacific region. The United States is poised to play an important role in the area economically, diplomatically and militarily. We need to aggressively pursue opportunities in the region.”
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today applauded the U.S. Postal Service’s decision to postpone closing its post offices and mail processing facilities, including the facility in Everett. Larsen called on the Postmaster General to keep the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility open in a letter last month. The Postal Service announced yesterday that it would delay closure of all facilities until May in response to Congressional requests. “The Postal Service’s decision to postpone closure of the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility is great news for the dedicated employees at this facility and means that residents across Northwest Washington will maintain their speedy first class mail delivery,” Larsen said. “When I visited this facility in November it was clear to me that the services it provides are vital to residents across Northwest Washington, and that the Postal Service had not adequately accounted for the costs to the community if the facility closed.”
12.12.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today helped pass the “Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011.” Larsen, a member of the House Transportation Committee, helped write the 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act and its 2006 revisions. He managed floor debate on the bill today, which ultimately passed with a unanimous voice vote.“This bill is another important step in the right direction to improving the safety of pipelines across the nation,” Larsen said. “I worked to ensure that this bill would require enhanced testing of pipelines and mandate automatic shut-off valves on new and replaced pipelines. Tragic pipeline accidents like the 1999 explosion in Bellingham that took three lives must be prevented. I have been working on pipeline safety since coming to Congress in 2001. We are continually studying the issues around pipeline safety, and every bill we consider gives us a chance to address the lessons we learn in a bipartisan way. This bill is a strong addition to our past laws and will implement important safety measures and hold pipeline operators more accountable.”Larsen delivered the following floor statement today:Floor Statement of The Honorable Rick LarsenH.R. 2845, Supporting the “Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011”Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2845, the “Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011”.Pipelines have a critical place in our nation’s infrastructure. The national pipeline network of over 2.5 million miles efficiently delivers gasoline, natural gas, oil, and other essential energy products across the country each day. Pipelines play a vital role in our daily lives. Cooking and cleaning, the daily commute, air travel and the heating of homes and businesses are all made possible by the readily available fuels delivered through pipelines daily. However, because of the volatile nature of the products they deliver, incidents involving gas and hazardous liquid pipeline can and have had serious consequences.On June 10, 1999, a pipeline explosion caused the release of about 237,000 gallons of gasoline into a creek that flowed through Whatcom Falls Park in Bellingham, Washington in my Congressional district. The gasoline ignited and tragically took the lives of two 10 year-old boys, Stephen Tsiorvas and Wade King, and an 18 year-old young man, Liam Wood. Eight additional inhalation injuries occurred, a single-family residence, and the city of Bellingham’s water treatment plant were severely damaged. The wildlife in Whatcom Creek was completely destroyed.This tragedy inspired the 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act. This act increased fines for negligent pipeline operators, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided protection for whistleblowers and allowed for state oversight of pipeline safety. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act.These acts of Congress have made pipeline safety laws stronger, the construction of new pipelines better, and our existing infrastructure safer. While significant progress has been made in improving the safety of our nation’s pipelines, we must remain vigilant. In July 2010, a 30-inch pipeline owned by Enbridge Energy Partners ruptured and released 819,000 gallons of oil into Talmadge Creek, located near Marshall, Michigan. The oil flowed into the Kalamazoo River, a tributary to Lake Michigan. Heavy rains caused the river to overtop existing dams and carried oil 30 miles downstream on the Kalamazoo River toward a superfund site. Almost a year and one-half later, Enbridge is still cleaning up the spill along river banks.Just a few months after the Enbridge spill, in September 2010, an intrastate natural gas transmission pipeline owned by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), ruptured in a residential area in San Bruno, California. The released natural gas ignited, resulting in a fire that destroyed 38 homes and damaged 70 others. Eight people were killed, many were injured, and many more were evacuated from the area.The legislation that we are considering today addresses many concerns that were raised as a result of these and other incidents. For example, following the incident in Bellingham, Washington, National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigators found, among other things, that Olympic Pipe Line had no remote-operated shut off valves on the line, which could have helped prevent the release of hundreds of thousands of gallons of gasoline. Following the Bellingham incident, the Department of Transportation ordered the pipeline company to install an automatic shut-off valve just downstream of the rupture location so that the volume of product released would be limited in the event of a future pipeline rupture in that area. H.R. 2845 addresses the issue of shut-off valves; it requires all gas and hazardous liquid pipeline operators to install automatic remote-controlled shut valves on new and replaced pipelines.The bill also:Doubles civil penalties for pipeline safety violations (from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation and from $1 million to $2 million for maximum penalties);Requires the Secretary of the Department of Transportation (DOT) to evaluate and then issue regulations to expand integrity management beyond high-consequence areas; to establish performance standards for leak detection systems; and require hazardous liquid pipeline operators to install leak detection systems that meet such performance standards;Requires pipeline operators, in response to the San Bruno incident, to report to DOT any time their facilities exceed maximum allowable operating pressure, and to conduct tests to confirm the material strength of previously untested gas transmission pipelines in high-consequence areas;Increases the level of pipeline safety inspectors at DOT by 10, and increases the amount of technical assistance grants that are awarded to local communities from $1 million to $1.5 million annually.H.R. 2845 is a step in the right direction when it comes to pipeline safety. This bill is supported by the industry, and the pipeline safety community through groups like the Pipeline Safety Trust I want to thank the Chairman and all the committee members for their work on this legislation.I also want to thank Carl Weimer, executive director of the Pipeline Safety Trust in Bellingham which formed out of the 1999 pipeline explosion for his continued commitment to these issues.I strongly urge Members to support the bill.
12.09.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today co-chaired a small business roundtable discussion about contracting with the Department of Defense in Mt. Laurel, New Jersey. The meeting was part of the House Armed Services Committee’s Defense Business Panel which Larsen co-chairs. The panel held their first field hearings in Everett, and has had subsequent discussions in Ohio and Illinois as well as several hearings in Washington, DC.“These meetings let me and my colleagues hear directly from small businesses about the challenges they face when contracting with the Department of Defense,” Larsen said. “Small businesses are true innovators and important job-creators. They have a great deal to contribute to the nation’s defense, and this panel, with our field meetings and hearings in the capital, will identify ways to help them overcome the obstacles they face.”Larsen also visited Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst to tour the USAF Expeditionary Center where he participated in a Mine Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle rollover training exercise, and the New Jersey Army National Guard Battle Lab.
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement after Kimberly-Clark announced that attempts to sell the Everett plant had failed and that the plant would close.“Kimberly-Clark’s announcement today is clearly a disappointment for the Everett community,” Larsen said. “I offer my sympathy to the workers and their families who deserve better. The employees made it clear they were willing to make major sacrifices to keep the plant open under new management. While they will bear the burden of today’s decision, they bear no responsibility for it. I and my office in Everett stand by to provide support to the workers as they look for new jobs."
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District 751 vote to approve a contract extension with Boeing.“Tonight’s vote by the union is a huge step forward for all of Northwest Washington,” Larsen said. “Not only does this secure production of the 737-MAX in Washington, but it gives these deserving workers the fair contracts they have earned. I applaud both the union and company leaders who worked out this strong agreement. Looking forward, this agreement enhances Washington’s competitiveness to secure future manufacturing by the best aerospace workers in the world.”
12.07.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, was appointed today to the House-Senate conference committee to finalize the defense authorization bill for 2012. The committee will work out differences on the major bill which sets Department of Defense policies and spending. “As a conferee on the defense authorization bill, I will continue advocating for responsible policies and programs that make the United States better able to confront the challenges of this century.”Focus on the Asia-Pacific Region“One of my top priorities is pushing the Defense Department, specifically the Navy, to pivot to the Asia-Pacific region. The United States is poised to play an important role in the area economically, diplomatically and militarily. We need to aggressively pursue opportunities in the region. The President’s recent trip to the region and the announcement that U.S. Marines will rotate through Australia as part of our treaty obligations, are steps in the right direction.”Supporting Naval Programs Important to Northwest Washington“Northwest Washington is home to manufacturing and basing for several important defense programs. I will continue fighting to keep these programs strong. I will advocate for continued construction of key Navy ships and planes, including the P-8A Poseidon, the EA-18G Growler and the DDG destroyers. These planes and warships enhance U.S. security, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, and are important economic engines for Northwest Washington. I am particularly interested in seeing future destroyers based at Naval Station Everett.”Nuclear Non-Proliferation“I am a strong supporter of efforts to secure vulnerable nuclear material and stem proliferation. I will argue for robust funding of the National Nuclear Security Administration and Department of Defense efforts to expand our nuclear containment efforts.”Improving Foreign Aid and Development“We need to improve the way our country uses foreign aid and development in security zones around the world. I will continue supporting an effort to pool Defense and State Department resources in the Global Security Contingency Fund for more effective foreign aid and development. By allowing the two departments to work together, we will make better use of their strengths and be better able to comprehensively address security involving both the military and the State Department.”Accelerate the Drawdown in Afghanistan“We can accelerate our drawdown in Afghanistan, bringing our troops and resources home faster than the President has outlined. Our forces have killed Osama bin Laden and largely dismantled the terror network in Afghanistan. I will make that case to the conference committee, and push for a plan and timeframe for an accelerated transition of military operations to Afghan authorities, as I did when I voted for the McGovern amendment on the floor. Fighting Against Misguided Detainee Policy“The Senate version of this bill has egregious provisions mandating military detention of terrorist suspects, which could include American citizens. The top national security experts in our country—including the secretary of defense, the director of national intelligence and the director of the FBI—oppose these provisions which they say would disrupt terrorism investigations and tie the hands of law enforcement professionals. The provisions could even authorize indefinite military detention of Americans who are accused of planning of participating in terrorist activities. These provisions cut against sound Constitutional provisions, and I will fight to remove them from the final bill.”
12.05.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today hailed an announcement by the U.S. Department of Treasury that Washington state will lend more than $216 million to small businesses, thanks to a federal grant. The State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) funding of $19.7 million will leverage an additional $197 million in private funds, to help small businesses grow and create jobs across the state. “Small businesses are a major source of new jobs, and this funding will help them get the money they need to grow and create jobs,” Larsen said. “Innovative small businesses are critical elements in rebuilding our economy, but they have struggled to have access to capital. Now they will have access to the resources they need to grow, getting people in Northwest Washington back to work.”The SSBCI was created by the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, which Larsen supported. The grant, which will be administered by the Washington Department of Commerce, will leverage at least $10 for every $1 in federal funding. The state is partnering with Enterprise Cascadia and the University of Washington Center for Commercialization to create a Capital Access Program, the Craft3 Small Business Credit Initiative, and the university of Washington Center for Commercialization W Fund to administer the funds.For more information about the SSBCI, please visit https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sb-programs/Pages/ssbci.aspx.
12.01.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, today made the case to maintain the Coast Guard’s icebreaking capability at a hearing on Coast Guard operations in the Arctic.“Icebreaking capability is critical to maintaining U.S. sovereignty in the Arctic frontier, which is increasingly important in the global economy,” Larsen said. “Unfortunately the House of Representatives recently made a misguided decision to decommission the Coast Guard’s two heavy icebreakers. It is absurd for the majority to maintain that the Coast Guard can do ‘more with less’ when the best minds in our nation have for years recommended, if not admonished, the Congress to do one thing to protect our national interests in the Arctic—invest in new heavy icebreakers. We need to invest now in new heavy icebreakers or lose our capabilities to operate in the Arctic and Antarctic.”The Subcommittee’s hearing on Coast Guard Operations in the Arctic included testimony from two witnesses who traveled from Washington state for the hearing:Retired Rear Adm. Jeffrey Garrett who served as the commanding officer of the Coast Guard icebreakers Polar Sea and HealyMr. David Whitcomb, the Vice-President for Production Support at Vigor IndustriesThe archive of the webcast will be available at this link this afternoon: https://go.usa.gov/5KULarsen’s full opening statement is as follows:Mr. Chairman, thank you for scheduling this morning’s hearing to assess the capabilities of the United States Coast Guard to maintain and protect the sovereign interests of the United States in the Arctic. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to take a moment to welcome two of our witnesses who have travelled from Washington State to participate this morning. Rear Admiral Jeffrey Garrett, United States Coast Guard (retired), served with distinction as the Commanding Officer of the Coast Guard icebreakers Polar Sea and Healy, and was involved in polar icebreaking deployments throughout the Eastern and Western Arctic and in Antarctica. Welcome Admiral Garrett; I am sure your many years of experience in the Arctic will shed some helpful insights.I would also like to welcome Mr. David Whitcomb, Vice-President for Production Support at Vigor Industries. Vigor Industries recently acquired the former Todd Pacific Shipyards in Seattle which has for years maintained the Coast Guard’s fleet of icebreakers. Thank you for participating Mr. Whitcomb; I will look forward to an update from you on the status and pace of repairs to the Polar Star. Mr. Chairman, in reflecting on this morning’s topic, it is hard for me to recall another instance where the solution to a policy problem has been so apparent, yet the reaction of the Congress so contrary or unresponsive.I may not know the precise definition of the word, “irony”, but scheduling a hearing to discuss Coast Guard capabilities in the Arctic less than three weeks after the House passed legislation that would decommission the Coast Guard’s two heavy icebreakers, sure seems ironic to me.It has been the policy of the United States since 1965 for the United States Coast Guard to develop, establish, maintain and operate the United States icebreaking fleet in each polar region. Anyone who has looked at this issue over the years has come to the same conclusion: we need to invest now in new heavy icebreakers or face a sharply diminished presence in the Arctic and Antarctic.As our nation’s primary Federal maritime agency, the Coast Guard has played — and will continue to play — a significant role in Arctic policy implementation and enforcement while also fulfilling its other mission responsibilities for search and rescue operations, maritime safety, scientific research and environmental protection.I want to commend Commandant Papp for his efforts to “Steady the Service” and to maintain and enhance the Coast Guard’s operational capabilities in these very challenging budgetary times. Thank you Admiral.Due to the extreme operating environments found at high latitudes, the Coast Guard has relied on icebreakers to serve as mobile, multi-mission operating platforms. This has enabled the Coast Guard to project U.S. global leadership and to protect our national security and economic interests in both the Arctic and Antarctic. And by all accounts, the Coast Guard’s use of icebreakers has served the nation very well, until recently.As far back as the October, 1990 Polar Icebreaker Requirements Report, the handwriting has been on the wall. If we are going to maintain a reliable presence in the High North, we must make the necessary investments to sustain an icebreaker fleet.Fortunately, the Congress responded positively to this report and provided the appropriations necessary to build and launch the Coast Guard icebreaker Healy in 1999. Regrettably, the declining condition of both Coast Guard heavy icebreakers, the Polar Sea and the Polar Star, each of which have exceeded its 30-year life expectancy, has failed to generate a similar response from Congress, and no new funding for recapitalization of icebreakers is on the horizon.Instead, over the past several years the Congress has received multiple reports from the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Homeland Security’s Inspector General, the National Research Council, the Coast Guard, and others agencies, that make basically the same recommendation as in the 1990 report — we need to invest now in new heavy icebreakers or lose our capabilities to operate in the Arctic and Antarctic.What I find especially frustrating is that this comes at precisely the same time when other nations including Russia, China, Norway, and Korea are rushing to build new icebreakers to stake their claims in the emerging area in the Arctic.It is absurd for the majority to maintain that the Coast Guard can do “more with less” when the best minds in our nation have for years recommended, if not admonished, the Congress to do one thing to protect our national interests in the Arctic — invest in new heavy icebreakers.Instead, as I mentioned earlier, we have passed legislation to decommission our two heavy icebreakers within the next three years, an idea which I believe is misguided, for which the administration has forcefully and rightfully stated its strong opposition.The bottom line is that we cannot afford to “outsource” the Coast Guard’s icebreaking mission to Russia, to China, or to any other nation. Considering that it will take anywhere between eight to ten years to plan, design and build a new heavy icebreaker, we had best initiate a discussion right now with our colleagues in the Senate, the administration, the Coast Guard, and other Federal agencies to reach agreement on a long-term strategy to provide not only new heavy icebreakers, but also the other infrastructure investments necessary to support Coast Guard operations above the Arctic Circle. We either choose to address this challenge or we risk losing a critical foothold necessary to maintain U.S. sovereignty in an Arctic frontier of emerging global economic importance. Too much is at stake to remain complacent, and we need to act.
11.30.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after Boeing announced the 737-MAX would be built in Renton and the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers announcement that they have reached a contract extension agreement.“This is momentous news for all of Washington, and is further evidence that our aerospace workers are the best in the world,” Larsen said. “I applaud IAM and Boeing for reaching a contract agreement and working together to bring these thousands of good jobs for decades to come to Washington. I thank all of those who worked hard to bring the 737-MAX where it belongs, and I look forward to seeing the first plane take off from our state.“We must now recommit to our efforts to educate and train the next generation of aerospace workers to meet this challenge and to compete for future manufacturing. One strong opportunity we have is to train veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to take on these jobs. Tools like the recently signed Vow to Hire Heroes Act will provide the resources to prepare our veterans to enter the private workforce.“Today’s announcements are cause to celebrate in their own right, but also give us confidence for the future. They create the conditions for long term growth and a stable environment that will be a key asset when competing for future aerospace manufacturing.”
11.28.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today lauded the results of a report showing that American seniors are saving hundreds of dollars in prescription drug costs thanks to the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The Associated Press report on Medicare data shows that seniors in the Medicare doughnut hole paid on average more than $600 less in out-of-pocket expenses on prescription drugs.“This is just one example of how the Affordable Care Act is helping seniors, and is a striking example of how repealing the law would have drastic negative effects on our seniors,” Larsen said. “Closing the doughnut hole is a critically important element of the law, and seniors will continue to benefit as the gap is fully closed by 2020. My colleagues who voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act owe an explanation to seniors who would have to pay higher fees for their prescription drugs, to families who would be denied insurance coverage because of preexisting conditions, and to young people and struggling middle income families who cannot afford health insurance.”The Medicare data show that the average beneficiary in the doughnut hole would have paid $1,504 this year on prescription drugs, but have saved an average of $581 on brand name drugs and an average of $22 on generic drugs.
11.21.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today after the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction announced they would not produce a plan to reduce the deficit.“I am disappointed that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction failed to produce a plan to cut the deficit. “At the end of the day, this committee failed because Republicans on the panel refused to consider a balanced approach to deficit reduction. Democrats were willing to put major spending programs on the table, but Republicans insisted on protecting the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans while asking fixed-income seniors to sacrifice more through cuts to Social Security and Medicaid. That makes no sense at all.“I remain steadfastly committed to a balanced approach to major deficit reduction.“I voted for the debt deal that put in spending caps that will result in $917 billion in deficit reduction over ten years. I have joined more than 100 of my colleagues from both parties to call for deficit reduction totaling $4 trillion—far greater than the Joint Committee sought to achieve.“While the Joint Committee did not produce a plan, members of Congress on both sides of the aisle must not and can not throw in the towel.”
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted against a Republican balanced budget amendment that could require steep cuts to Medicare and Social Security.“I voted against the amendment because it would balance the budget on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens,” Larsen said. “I am a strong supporter of restoring fiscal discipline through responsible means. I recently sent a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction calling on them to ‘go big’ by presenting a bold plan that would reduce the deficit by $4 trillion.“The latest proposal to amend the Constitution that Republicans put to a vote today would have disproportionately targeted Medicare and Social Security, while allowing corporations and the highest earners to benefit from massive tax cuts. It would have also barred the federal government from taking on debt to invest in the future of our economy—from infrastructure improvement, to clean energy to education. Without this sort of investment, our economy will not be able to grow and provide the jobs that Americans need.“Former Washington Governor Daniel Evans recently called the balanced budget amendment ‘an impractical idea’ for which the consequences ‘could be disastrous.’“Independent analysts argue that the balanced budget requirement, if applied to the current fiscal year, would require cuts totaling $1.5 trillion, resulting in the loss of 15 million jobs. That would double the unemployment rate from 9 to 18 percent.“The path to real deficit reduction and a balanced budget requires sacrifices from all Americans. From reducing spending, like cutting agriculture subsidies and accelerating the drawdown in Afghanistan, to increasing revenue by closing tax loopholes for massively profitable companies and restoring tax rates on the highest earners, we can achieve our aims through shared sacrifice and bipartisan compromise.“While some in Washington, D.C. want to slash entitlement spending, we must protect the benefits that our seniors have earned. Medicare must remain a guaranteed benefit and not converted to a voucher system. Social Security’s long-term solvency can be ensured if we lift the cap on earnings subject to the Social Security tax.”“We can achieve major deficit reduction without shredding the social safety net, but we will only do so if we set partisan gimmicks like this balanced budget amendment aside and work together on these sensible solutions.”
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today voted for a bill that will fund the departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Justice, Transportation and Housing and Urban Development, as well as continue other government operations. The appropriations bill was approved by the House of Representatives today and awaits consideration by the Senate before Presidential approval.“This bill will allow for major investments in our infrastructure, creating thousands of jobs and building a foundation for future economic growth,” Larsen said. “While the realities of our budget situation and the need to reduce the deficit mean that we did not get everything we wanted, this bill still invests significantly in highways and transportation, law enforcement, food safety and housing, and provides relief to those who have been struck by natural disasters. It also helps those struggling to make their housing payments, providing resources for homeowners nearing foreclosure and improving public housing and programs for homeless veterans.“The spending levels in this bill are consistent with the tough caps that Congress put in place in this year’s Budget Control Act. “I am pleased that House and Senate negotiators killed partisan policy elements of the bill that would have rolled back Wall Street reform and attacked the environment and women’s health. These bills should not be used as a way to force a partisan agenda on the American people.”The bill also includes a continuing resolution to keep other government agencies funded through Dec. 16, giving Congress time to finish other appropriations bills.For a summary of the bill, visit: https://go.usa.gov/IdR.
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON—A bill approved in Congress today and supported by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, will help get thousands of veterans back to work. Larsen hailed the bill, which he said is a critical way to boost the economy and repay veterans for their service. The Vow to Hire Heroes Act now goes to President Obama, who has indicated that he will sign the bill.“Veterans who have risked life and limb in the service of our nation deserve our help in finding jobs here at home,” Larsen said. “Our military personnel are exceptionally talented and are proven leaders. These tax credits and transition programs will help our vets put their skills to work in the private sector, growing our economy and giving vets the opportunities they deserve. Too many of our vets—particularly those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan—have struggled to find work. This legislation will provide important training for veterans transitioning into the private sector and gives strong incentives for private companies to hire veterans.”Washington’s 2nd Congressional District is home to more than 75,000 veterans. The legislation is supported by veterans service organizations, such as the VFW, IAVA, Paralyzed Veterans Association, and the American Legion.The Vow to Hire Heroes Act, originally sponsored in the Senate by Sen. Patty Murray, will:Provide businesses with a tax credit of up to $5,600 for hiring veterans who have been looking for a job for more than six months, as well as a $2,400 credit for veterans who are unemployed for more than four weeks, but less than 6 months.Provide a tax credit of up to $9,600 for hiring veterans with service-connected disabilities who have been looking for a job for more than six months.Make the Transition Assistance Program (TAP), an interagency workshop coordinated by Departments of Defense, Labor and Veterans Affairs, mandatory for servicemembers moving on to civilian life to help them secure 21st Century jobs through resume writing workshops and career counseling.Expand education and training opportunities for older veterans by providing 100,000 unemployed veterans of past eras and wars with up to one year of additional Montgomery GI benefits to go towards education or training programs at community colleges or technical schools.Provide disabled veterans up to one year of additional Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Benefits.Allow service members to begin the federal employment process prior to separation in order to facilitate a truly seamless transition from the military to jobs at VA, Homeland Security, or the many other federal agencies in need of our veterans.Work with the states to create a licensing and credentialing standard for returning service members to break down the barriers to find meaningful employment in their military occupations. Strengthen the protections for members of the National Guard and Reserve in the workforce to minimize hostile work environments.
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement today regarding the Gov. Gregoire’s announcement of Washington state’s strategy to secure production of the 737-Max.“Washington’s aerospace workers are the best in the world, and they are the best suited to build the next generation 737-MAX,” Larsen said. “I support the Governor’s strategy to invest in education to produce a strong workforce that will meet the manufacturing challenges that the 737-MAX will bring. Building this airplane will take thousands of workers over the next two decades, and I will continue working to bring those jobs to Snohomish County.”For more information on Gov. Gregoire’s announcement, visit: https://go.usa.gov/IEq. For information on the Washington Aerospace Partnership, visit https://www.washington-aerospace.com.
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON—The U.S.-Australia defense partnership announced today by President Obama in Australia will boost the security interests of both nations, Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, said today. Larsen, who travelled to Australia in February and met with Australian leaders including Prime Minister Julia Gillard and Defense Minister Stephen Smith, said the partnership will enhance regional security.“The defense partnership announced today in Australia resolidifies U.S. leadership in the Asia-Pacific region and our commitment to security there,” Larsen said. “The permanent basing of Marines in northern Australian defense facilities and plans for joint training exercises will further grow our important military relationship with Australia and service our security interests in the region.”President Obama and Prime Minister Gillard announced that U.S. Marines will deploy starting next year to Darwin and Northern Australia for around 6 months at a time. The leaders announced plans to eventually house a Marine Air Ground Task Force of up to 2,500 Marines in that country. The Marines will conduct training and amphibious exercises alongside the Australian military. For more information on the defense partnership, visit: https://go.usa.gov/IUx.
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on Congress to prohibit the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from awarding contracts to felons convicted of contract fraud, waste and abuse. Larsen, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, introduced a motion to recommit the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2011 that would have prevented the Coast Guard and Army Corps from awarding such contracts.The motion failed on a vote of 189 to 235.“Millions of taxpayer dollars have been wasted on bribery and kickbacks for Coast Guard and Army Corps contracts. Taxpayer dollars have been illegally used to buy BMWs, Rolexes, flat-screen televisions, investment properties, and more, all in exchange for lucrative sole-sourced and open-ended contracts potentially worth more than $1.7 billion,” Larsen said. “This amendment would have simply prohibited contracts to convicted felons who have lost the public trust. Instead of kickbacks, we would be kicking these criminals into the penalty box.”Just last month a federal magistrate judge indicted four individuals on an alleged bribery and kickback scheme on Army Corps contracts that defrauded taxpayers a minimum of $20 million.
11.12.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued a statement today regarding President Obama’s trip to the Asia-Pacific region and the announcement of progress in negotiating a Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement to promote free trade in the Asia-Pacific Region. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation caucus.“The President’s trip to Asia and the announcement today that Asia-Pacific leaders are moving forward on an agreement to promote trade in the region are solid steps of progress to increasing exports to these important markets,” Larsen said. “Expanding exports is a critical way that businesses in Northwest Washington and around the nation are creating jobs, and promoting the Trans-Pacific Partnership is a critical way that the United States can continue its commitment to exports in the region.”“It’s important to note that Asia-Pacific leaders have committed to cooperate on the protection of labor rights and environmental concerns in any final agreement,” Larsen added. “Exports mean jobs, particularly in Northwest Washington, and I’ll continue to work to make sure that future trade agreements like the Trans-Pacific Partnership create jobs here at home.”The President also signed Larsen’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 today. For more information on that bill, visit: https://go.usa.gov/IZD.More information on the outlines of the Trans-Pacific Partnership can be found here: https://go.usa.gov/IZZ.
11.12.2011	WASHINGTON—A bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to promote U.S. exports to the Asia-Pacific region became law today. President Obama signed the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 at the APEC business summit in Hawaii this morning. The law will allow American business and government personnel traveling to the Asia-Pacific region access to expedited visa processing and designated airport travel lanes. Foreign travel card holders in 18 other economies already have access to these privileges when traveling to the United States. “The president’s signature on this bill means American business men and women will be able to travel more freely to the Asia-Pacific region, expanding opportunities to export American goods to these important markets,” Larsen said. “This travel card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas, giving them the same expedited travel benefits that foreign travel card holders enjoy when they come to the United States.”
11.10.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, issued the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day.“Veterans Day is a time to pause and remember the sacrifices made by those who have served in our armed services during the proud history of our military. We thank those who have served, and we recall those who gave, as President Abraham Lincoln called it, ‘the last full measure of devotion.'“This Veterans Day is particularly poignant, as the last 40,000 troops stationed in Iraq will soon be returning home to their families. These brave men and women are among the hundreds of thousands of young Americans who have put their lives on the line in service of our country in Afghanistan and Iraq over the last 10 years.”
11.10.2011	Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar Declares Federal Lands on San Juan Islands Deserve Immediate Permanent Protection Cantwell and Larsen Have Introduced Legislation to Create National Conservation Area in San Juan Islands and Preserve Federal Lands for Future Generations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) hailed the inclusion of the San Juan Islands on Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar’s list of ‘Crown Jewel’ federal lands that deserve permanent protection. Salazar delivered his recommendations to Congress at a press conference this afternoon. Cantwell is leading legislation in the Senate that would turn several dozen cherished spots spread across the San Juan Islands into a National Conservation Area (NCA) to ensure continued public access and protection of these pristine parcels. Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA-02) is leading companion legislation in the House. Secretary Salazar visited the San Juan Islands in April to view the parcels proposed for protection and discuss the proposal with local stakeholders. Secretary Salazar has asked the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to coordinate with a committee of local groups to prepare for a transition. “Washingtonians should be proud of this national recognition of the unforgettable natural treasures of the San Juan Islands,” said Cantwell. “More than 700,000 tourists come to experience these scenic parcels every year. And with visitor traffic increasing, it’s time to have a clear management plan in place to protect these crown jewels. This locally-driven plan will ensure these cherished lands remain protected, accessible to the public, and better managed to accommodate continued visitor use and enjoyment. I will continue to push for the legislation necessary to make these protections a reality.” “The San Juan Islands should be preserved for not only residents and visitors today, but for future generations,” said Larsen. “This designation shows that there is a compelling case to create a San Juan National Conservation Area and protect this land for recreation and enjoyment.” In late July, Cantwell and Larsen held a community listening session in Friday Harbor to hear feedback on the effort to create a National Conservation Area. Nearly 30 people were in attendance to take part in the discussion, including Bureau of Land Management (BLM) staff and local public officials. The citizen-driven effort to preserve these lands has generated widespread, passionate support from the community, which has actively worked with Cantwell and Larsen on the legislation. An NCA designation would ensure that approximately 1,000 acres of federally-owned lands would remain in their natural state and publicly accessible. The federally-owned lands include over 60 locations that range from pine forests to lighthouses and are visited by more than 70,000 tourists every year. Unfortunately, there is currently no long-term comprehensive management plan for these lands. An NCA designation will help ensure long-term protection of these natural treasures, keep them accessible and in the public domain, and better managed to accommodate heavier visitor use. The NCA land would anchor a system that includes a National Wildlife Refuge along with a National Historic Park. Cantwell has long been a strong advocate on efforts to preserve Washington’s natural landscape. On San Juan Island, she led the effort to secure federal funding to prevent a private, out-of-state real-estate developer from obtaining ownership of Mitchell Hill, a popular and scenic hiking trail. Because of her efforts, Mitchell Hill remains in the public domain and is protected against private development as part of the San Juan Island National Historical Park. Today, Cantwell helped secure key committee passage of legislation to preserve 22,000 acres of wilderness at Snoqualmie Pass, supporting the local economy and the rich quality of life in the Pacific Northwest. Recently, she joined Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) in securing Senate Commerce Committee approval of the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative Act. The Act would restore and protect marine resources in Northern Puget Sound to achieve a healthy ecosystem while sustainably using resources.
11.09.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today called on the U.S. Postal Service to maintain operations at the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility. In a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe, Larsen said the loss of service and jobs in western Washington would be a blow to the region, and called into question some of the cost-savings the Postal Service expects to gain from closing the facility.The Postal Service is holding a public meeting at 6 p.m. on Thursday at the Snohomish County PUD Building at 2320 California St. in Everett.The full text of Larsen’s letter follows:November 9, 2011The Honorable Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster General and Chief Executive OfficerUnited States Postal Service475 L’Enfant Plaza SWWashington DC 20260-0010Dear Mr. Postmaster General:I am writing to share with you my support to maintain the operation of the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility in Everett, Washington.I recently visited this facility and was impressed with the professionalism, tenacious work ethic, and commitment to excellence of the employees there. The approximately 310 employees manage more than 1 million pieces of mail daily. The loss of this facility would render many of these dedicated people unemployed or forced to relocate from their homes.In addition to the troubling employment loss, the level of service to the region would greatly diminish should this facility close. Losing the single day turnaround of letters in and around western Washington would be a blow to the high standards of the United States Postal Service. I believe this would also put the USPS at a competitive disadvantage regionally because customers may turn to other sources for single day turnaround needs.After reviewing the USPS’s Area Mail Processing study, some of the estimated cost savings calculations remain unclear. I believe that some of the calculations only address the cost savings of the facility fully closing. It did not appear to make considerations for the cost shift of processing the mail at another facility; did not take into account the possibility of the facility remaining open as a hub only and the maintenance and custodial costs associated with that portion remaining open; or the possibility that other assets may be moved to this location. The true costs associated with the considered closure remain nebulous.While it may be outside the scope of the Area Mail Processing study, I am also concerned about the costs to the western Washington region should the facility close. Hundreds of thousands of residents and businesses depend on this facility for efficient turnaround. The full costs of the loss of this resource to the community do not seem to have been adequately taken into account.I urge you to consider these factors and possibilities, which should support a decision to maintain operations at the Everett Area Mail Processing Facility.Sincerely, Rick LarsenUnited States CongressmanWashington State, 2nd District
11.08.2011	BELLINGHAM—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today unveiled legislation that will bring jobs to Northwest Washington. Larsen’s Creating American Jobs Through Foreign Capital Act (H.R. 2972) would permanently authorize a program that has already created more than 800 jobs in Whatcom County.“My number one goal is to bring more jobs Northwest Washington, and this legislation will do exactly that,” Larsen said. “This program has already created including hundreds of jobs right here in Whatcom County. By permanently establishing the EB-5 program, we’ll make sure those dollars keep flowing and jobs continue to grow.”The EB-5 program allows qualified foreigners who make major investments in U.S. businesses that create or save at least ten full-time jobs to seek visas. The program, first established in 1990, has been continued as a short-term pilot program. Larsen’s bill (H.R. 2972) would permanently authorize the program, which is currently slated to expire on September 30, 2012.“By permanently authorizing this program, we will create certainty to foreign investors that the program will persist, making them more likely to make substantial investments in our communities,” Larsen added. “This is one of more than 20 such programs around the world—including important growing economies like Hong Kong, New Zealand, Australia and Singapore. We need to permanently authorize this program to stay competitive and keep growing our economy.”
11.04.2011	WASHINGTON—A bill authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, to promote U.S. exports to the Asia-Pacific region gained final Congressional approval today, and will become law with the president’s signature. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 will allow American business and government personnel traveling to the Asia-Pacific region access to expedited visa processing and designated airport travel lanes. Foreign travel card holders in 18 other economies already have access to these privileges when traveling to the United States.“This is good news for American business men and women who export their products to the Asia-Pacific region,” Larsen said. “This travel card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas, giving them the same expedited travel benefits that foreign travel card holders enjoy when they come to the United States.”The Senate passed an amended version of Larsen’s legislation last night, modifying funding provisions and requiring the program to be reauthorized by Congress within seven years.“I thank the Senate for its support of this program, and am comfortable with the changes they made to the bill,” Larsen said. “As the President prepares to travel to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit next week, I urge him to sign this bill expeditiously so that American business people can soon enjoy these travel privileges and continue to expand American exports to these growing economies.”
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today questioned U.S. officials and experts on the safety of domestic energy production following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Larsen, the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, questioned the witnesses about the ability of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to handle multiple accidents, such as a potential spill in the Puget Sound area.“We need to make sure that the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund is strong enough so that it is in place to address future spills,” Larsen said. “I’m particularly concerned about ensuring that the trust fund can handle multiple incidents, so that a big spill doesn’t empty the fund and leave smaller spills, like if one were to occur in the Puget Sound, without resources to clean them up.”In his opening statement, Larsen said:“The Deepwater Horizon oil spill was a major human and environmental disaster of potentially unprecedented proportions. The message today is the same as it was when we heard from the National Commission on the BP Oil Spill eight months ago: undertaking deepwater drilling requires a fuller understanding of the risks that accompany the clear benefits of deepwater drilling.“We need to provide federal agencies with adequate resources to minimize the odds of another such tragedy from happening again, and to respond efficiently and effectively should we have to. The public depends on federal agencies to ensure the safety of deepwater drilling and the safety of the men and women who work on those platforms.”To view the hearing, visit: https://democrats.transportation.house.gov/hearing/subcommittee-coast-guard-and-maritime-transportation-hearing-%E2%80%9Cassuring-safety-domestic.
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, today supported a bill that will provide nearly 4 million veterans a cost-of-living increase for their benefits to match the 3.6 percent increase provided to Social Security recipients. The bill, S. 894, was approved by the House of Representatives and now goes to the President for his signature. “Our veterans fully deserve this overdue increase in their benefits, and I’m proud to have supported this bill,” Larsen said. “At a time when so many of our veterans are struggling to make ends meet, this cost-of-living increase will be a welcome boost.”
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON—Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, is one of 100 representatives of both parties to sign a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction telling them to seek $4 trillion in deficit reduction. The full letter follows:Wednesday, November 2, 2011The Honorable Jeb HensarlingCo-Chair, Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction129 Cannon House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515The Honorable Patty MurrayCo-Chair, Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction448 Russell Senate Office BuildingWashington, DC 20510Dear Congressman Hensarling, Senator Murray, and Members of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction:We write to you as a bipartisan group of representatives from across the political spectrum in the belief that the success of your committee is vital to our country’s future. We know that many in Washington and around the country do not believe we in the Congress and those within your committee can successfully meet this challenge. We believe that we can and we must.To succeed, all options for mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues must be on the table. In addition, we know from other bipartisan frameworks that a target of some $4 trillion in deficit reduction is necessary to stabilize our debt as a share of the economy and assure America’s fiscal well-being.Our country needs our honest, bipartisan judgment and our political courage. Your committee has been given a unique opportunity and authority to act. We are prepared to support you in this effort.Sincerely,Rep. Andrews (D-NJ)Rep. Barrow (D-GA)Rep. Bass (R-NH)Rep. Tim Bishop (D-NY)Rep. Boren (D-OK)Rep. Boswell (D-IA)Rep. Cardoza (D-CA)Rep. Carney (D-DE)Rep. Carter (R-TX)Rep. Castor (D-FL)Rep. Chandler (D-KY)Rep. Cleaver (D-MO)Rep. Coble (R-NC)Rep. Cole (R-OK)Rep. Connolly (D-VA)Rep. Cooper (D-TN)Rep. Costa (D-CA)Rep. Crenshaw (R-FL)Rep. Cuellar (D-TX)Rep. Davis (D-IL)Rep. DeFazio (D-OR)Rep. DeGette (D-CO)Rep. Dent (R-PA)Rep. Dicks (D-WA)Rep. Dold (R-IL)Rep. Duncan (R-TN)Rep. Emerson (R-MO)Rep. Fattah (D-PA)Rep. Fitzpatrick (R-PA)Rep. Fortenberry (R-NE)Rep. Garamendi (D-CA)Rep. Gosar (R-AZ)Rep. Grimm (R-NY)Rep. Hanna (R-NY)Rep. Harper (R-MS)Rep. Higgins (D-NY)Rep. Himes (D-CT)Rep. Hoyer (D-MD)Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA)Rep. Kildee (D-MI)Rep. Kind (D-WI)Rep. King, Peter (R-NY)Rep. Kingston (R-GA)Rep. Larsen (D-WA)Rep. Larson (D-CT)Rep. LaTourette (R-OH)Rep. Lipinski (D-IL)Rep. Loebsack (D-IA)Rep. Long (R-MO)Rep. Lummis (R-WY)Rep. Maloney (D-NY)Rep. Marino (R-PA)Rep. Matheson (D-UT)Rep. McIntyre (D-NC)Rep. McKinley (R-WV)Rep. Meehan (R-PA) Rep. Meeks (D-NY)Rep. Moran (D-VA)Rep. Nunes (R-CA)Rep. Owens (D-NY)Rep. Pascrell (D-NJ)Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX)Rep. Perlmutter (D-CO)Rep. Peters (D-MI)Rep. Peterson (D-MN)Rep. Petri (R-WI)Rep. Pingree (D-ME)Rep. Platts (R-PA)Rep. Polis (D-CO)Rep. Price, David (D-NC)Rep. Quigley (D-IL)Rep. Rahall (D-WV)Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY)Rep. Ribble (R-WI)Rep. Roe (R-TN)Rep. Rooney (R-FL)Rep. Mike Ross (D-AR)Rep. Rothman (D-NJ)Rep. Ruppersberger (D-MD)Rep. Schiff (D-CA)Rep. Schrader (D-OR)Rep. Schwartz (D-PA)Rep. Sewell (D-AL)Rep. Shuler (D-NC)Rep. Simpson (R-ID)Rep Adam Smith (D-WA)Rep. Stutzman (R-IN)Rep. Sullivan (R-OK)Rep. Terry (R-NE)Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA)Rep. Tsongas (D-MA)Rep. Bob Turner (R-NY)Rep. Visclosky (D-IN)Rep. Walz (D-MN)Rep. Watt (D-NC)Rep. Welch (D-VT)Rep. Whitfield (R-KY)Rep. Wolf (R-VA)Rep. Yarmuth (D-KY)Rep. Young (R-AK)
10.31.2011	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement regarding the Association of Western Pulp and Paper Workers' vote to approve a contract with Atlas Holdings, a possible buyer of the Kimberly Clark pulp and paper mill."The workers at the Kimberly Clark plant have stepped up to the plate in a big way with this vote. The strong support behind the agreement shows how serious the workers are about making the potential deal work."I want to see those good paying jobs in Everett long into the future and I offer my strong support as the two companies continue to work together to reach an agreement."
10.27.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to repeal the 3% withholding tax on transactions between the government and private sector businesses (H.R. 674).Set to take effect on January 1, 2013, all bills paid by the federal or state government for goods and services would be subject to a 3 percent income tax withholding. Larsen, a cosponsor of H.R. 674, voted to repeal the 3% withholding tax on these transactions.“Congress should not impose additional burdens on small businesses that are trying to grow and create jobs,” said Larsen. “I voted to repeal this tax burden so that local small businesses can use their capital to grow their business and create new jobs in our local communities.”“As a member of the committee that oversees our roads, bridges and highways, I have heard from the local private sector contractors who do much of that construction and repair work. These businesses have been struggling to survive during the recession, and a 3% withholding tax is often more than their profit margin. I want to do what I can to help these businesses succeed. That is why I voted to repeal this burdensome tax,” Larsen continued.
10.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives is expected to pass Rep. Larsen’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 (H.R. 2042). The bill will help level the playing field for American business men and women traveling overseas. The APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) is designed to facilitate commerce by promoting fast and efficient travel for eligible business people and government officials within the APEC region. The travel card will allow members to use designated travel lanes in airports and get expedited visa processing to help make overseas business travel more efficient. “After nearly three years of work, the House will take up and pass the APEC Business Travel Card Program today. The U.S. is one step closer to finally joining 18 other APEC economies that already have this full background check, expedited travel card for business people traveling between the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation economies. The U.S. will be one of the last to establish the travel card, but will be the largest economy.“This travel card will equip our business leaders with the tools and resources they need to compete in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Larsen. “The APEC Business Travel Card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas and provide them with the same expedited travel benefits foreign travel card holders enjoy when they travel to the U.S.”“This is a legacy bill that is another great example of Washington state continuing to be a state that looks west to the Asia-Pacific for our future”The U.S. began participation in the APEC Business Travel Card program as a “transitional member” in 2007. American business travelers are unable to benefit from U.S. entry into the program even though the U.S. has been extending benefits of the APEC Business Travel Card to our foreign competitors and counterparts for almost two years. The bill is expected to pass the House of Representatives today.
10.18.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Rick Larsen congratulated Dakota Creek Industries today for winning the contract to build the Navy’s new Auxiliary General Oceanographic Research Vessel (AGOR). “The announcement made by the Navy awarding the $74.1 million contract to Dakota Creek Industries is good news for the community of Anacortes, and more importantly, it means jobs” Larsen said. “The AGOR contract will ensure that there will be a shipyard of workers, providing living wage jobs for the boat builder, their suppliers, and local businesses that depend on Dakota Creek Industries.”
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen congratulated Island Transit for winning a federal grant awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration. Island Transit received $17.92 million to replace their current transit facility with a new main base to include a maintenance facility, bus washing and fueling facilities, and administration and operations facility. “This is huge news for Island Transit and for jobs on Whidbey Island.” Larsen said. “This grant will create much-needed construction jobs on the island. It will also replace an inadequate facility that no longer meets the needs of Island Transit’s growing operations,” he concluded.
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA – 02) released the following statement in advance of the House vote on free trade agreements for Colombia, Panama, and Korea: “After carefully reviewing the Korea, Panama and Columbia free trade agreements and hearing concerns from a wide-range of folks, I’ve decided to vote in support of all three agreements. “In Washington State, trade creates jobs. Over 86,000 jobs in Northwest Washington are directly supported by exports. And one in three jobs are tied to international trade in our state. The free trade agreements that I will vote for today will help Washington state small businesses and farmers export their products overseas and create jobs here at home.“We need a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth for the U.S to help us maintain our economic leadership in the world. I believe a vote for these trade agreements will help with that economic growth. In the Pacific Northwest trade means jobs.“I deeply considered the concerns that I heard from various organizations and labor groups prior to making a decision on these free trade agreement votes. Ultimately, I decided that Congress has worked to address those concerns and that is why I will vote in favor of these agreements that will create jobs in Washington state. “The Korea Free Trade Agreement includes a provision that requires 55% of the components of any final product sold in the U.S. be from the U.S. or Korea. This is similar to a recent agreement Korea signed with the European Union and helps ensure that American workers will benefit the most from this trade agreement. “Members of Congress and the Administration have put significant pressure on Panama to improve its tax transparency regime, and Panama responded by taking significant steps to crack down on tax evaders. “And without a significant commitment from the Colombian government to protect workers and prosecute those who wish to harm union workers, I would not support the Columbia FTA. “I will also vote to extend the Trade Adjustment Assistance program for workers who could be displaced because of trade. This is an important vote to package with the trade agreements.“After working to make these trade agreements better for Washington businesses and workers, I will vote to support the three free trade agreements and trade adjustment assistance. A vote for these trade agreements will create jobs and help our economic growth.
10.05.2011	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) commended the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) for voting today to initiate a study on the diversion of U.S.-bound cargo through Canadian ports. Larsen led a letter with six other Washington state Members of Congress requesting that the FMC conduct an analysis of the impact the Harbor Maintenance Tax (HMT) and other U.S. government policies may be having on cargo diversion and to offer legislative and regulatory recommendations to address this concern. A growing number of containerized U.S. imports from Asia are passing through west coast Canadian container ports (Vancouver and Prince Rupert) en route primarily to the U.S. Midwest through cross-border rail. This U.S.-bound cargo is diverted to Canadian ports instead of U.S. west coast ports like the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma and the Port of Everett largely because of the federal Harbor Maintenance Tax imposed on containers entering U.S. ports. Larsen has heard from Northwest ports that the HMT is increasingly becoming a significant competitiveness issue. “Cargo diversion creates a trade imbalance and job loss. Our Northwest ports are losing business to Canada at a time when we need this trade and the jobs it will create more than ever. We need to understand why this is happening so Congress can take action to fix this disparity and create jobs,” said Larsen.The FMC is an independent federal agency responsible for regulating the nation’s international ocean transportation for the benefit of exporters, importers, and the American consumer. Larsen is the lead Democrat on the Congressional subcommittee that oversees the FMC, the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. Today, the FMC announced that they will initiate an inquiry into disparities that drive U.S.-bound cargo to Canadian and Mexican ports and will seek public input. The results of the study could be available early next year.
10.04.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released a statement following the announcement that Kimberly-Clark Mills has entered into serious negotiations with Atlas Holdings LLC for the purchase of the pulp and paper mill:“The announcement that Kimberly-Clark has entered into exclusive talks with Atlas Holdings is good news for Everett and for Kimberly-Clark workers. As negotiations progress, I am hopeful that the local workforce will be seen as an asset that contributes to the facility's growth. These are good paying jobs that I want to see in Everett long into the future.”
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2587, a bill that limits the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) enforcement powers. The bill would curb the labor board’s legal authority by prohibiting it from ordering a company to relocate its workers. Larsen voted against the bill and entered the following remarks into the Congressional Record:Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to H.R. 2587, the “Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act.” This bill is before us because of an ongoing dispute between the International Association of Machinists and the Boeing Company that stems from an issue involving my district in Washington State.The case is proceeding through a well-established process where the facts of the case and the application of the law to those facts will be determined by an Administrative Law Judge, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), and possibly the federal courts.This case should be determined based on the facts and the law – not on politics.For this bill to come to the floor while this case is ongoing is troublesome and threatens the independence of the NLRB.Congress should not be attempting to influence the NLRB process for political gains. The NLRB is an independent adjudicatory agency. We need to protect the independence of the NLRB and allow it to do its job.Instead of playing politics we should instead be focused on creating jobs and getting our economy back on track.Last week, the President challenged this Congress to put aside partisanship and get to work on creating jobs.The single biggest action Congress could take to save and create jobs is make significant investment in our transportation infrastructure that will create private sector construction jobs, invest in the repair and maintenance of highways, roads, bridges and transit, and set the foundation for future economic growth.This is what we should be talking about today. Not attacking an independent agency that is simply doing its job.I urge my colleagues to vote no on this bill and allow the NLRB to determine this case based on the facts and law – not on politics.And let’s get back to work doing what the American public wants us to do – creating jobs.Thank you Mr. Speaker.###
09.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) and Ranking Member Adam Smith (D-WA) today announced the formation of a bipartisan Defense Business Panel. The Chairman and Ranking Member tapped Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) to lead the panel. They will examine the current defense business environment, to identify contracting or regulatory issues facing the defense industry; the use of incentives and mandates to meet established goals; structural challenges facing various sectors within of the industrial base, including universities and research institutes; impact of the current fiscal environment on the defense industry, at both the prime and subcontractor levels; and opportunities to reduce barriers to entry. The Panel will explore how the Department of Defense can encourage new entrants into the industrial base and foster the transition of technology.“In a time of shrinking budgets and reduced federal spending it is critical that Congress explores ways to streamline defense contracting and reduce regulatory burdens that hamper business growth and prevent companies from entering the defense industry,” said Congressman Bill Shuster. “This panel will play an important role in helping to create jobs and improve our economy. I thank Chairman McKeon for selecting me for this panel and I look forward to the work ahead of us.”“The Pentagon must do everything possible to encourage competition and implement improvement within defense contracting. Doing so will not only help create new jobs across the country, but will promote better products and services for the military during a time of budgetary restraints. I am pleased to be joining Rep. Shuster in this effort and look forward to starting our work.” Rep. Larsen said.The panel, in addition to Mr. Shuster and Mr. Larsen, includes Rep. Allen West (R-FL), Rep. Betty Sutton (D-OH), Rep. Jon Runyan (R-NJ), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), and Rep. Bobby Schilling (R-IL).
09.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement regarding the expected vote within the United Nations on Palestinian statehood.“Finding a peaceful resolution to matters in the Middle East continues to be a complex process. The difficulty of finding common ground lies not solely with the establishment of geographic borders, but is steeped in religion, history and cultural differences. Nonetheless, it is clear that peace must be found and that there should be a two-state solution for Israelis and for Palestinians.In order to find that path to peace, all parties must be willing to come to the negotiating table and talk until a resolution is found. This cannot be done by one side forcing its will upon the other, it cannot be done through violence or intimidation – and it cannot be done unilaterally. Unfortunately, the insistence by the Palestinians to bring a vote to the UN in September on the issue of statehood is absolutely the wrong way of approaching this matter. It will make things harder, it will not lead to the outcome they desire, and it potentially risks measures being brought forth from the U.S. and others that will financially and politically hurt the cause of the Palestinians. The U.S. has consistently stated – and continues to state – that a vote in the UN, even one favorable toward recognized statehood of Palestine – will not create a Palestinian state. Only direct talks between the parties will bring this reality. A vote will instead bring divisions and disagreements to the forefront with no strategy on how to overcome them. Bringing this vote to the UN is absolutely the wrong thing to do. Rather, the Palestinians should take this moment to sit down at the negotiating table and discuss the potential solutions that will lead to a peaceful and prosperous future in the region, one with a recognized state for Israelis and with a recognized state for Palestinians. It will not be easy and it will necessitate concessions from both sides, but it is the only way. The President and the State Department continue to strongly express the United States’ position, and our voice will be heard at the UN next month. Pushing this vote is a step backward, and I hope the Palestinians, Israel and other UN members will instead encourage that negotiations be restarted. By doing so, we will be able to move one day closer to peace.”
09.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued this statement in response to Kimberly-Clark's announcement:"The announcement today that Kimberly-Clark has notified employees that it may shut down its facility is difficult news but not the final word."I am committed to doing what I can to protect these jobs. "I am certain that Kimberly-Clark will continue its efforts to find a buyer for this facility given its investment into the Everett community and workforce.
08.29.2011	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) urged the President to include his proposal to protect the Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) program in any jobs package the White House submits to Congress. The HUBZone program helps small businesses in urban and rural communities gain preferential access to federal procurement opportunities. Skagit County is considered a HUBZone, but the county is at risk of losing that status. Larsen introduced H.R. 2131, the Protect HUBZone Act of 2011, to protect Skagit County’s status and delay changes to the HUBZone map for three years."We need to help our small and medium-sized manufacturers grow and create good jobs for folks in the community - not deny them the critical programs that are helping local businesses hire new workers,” said Larsen."The loss of HUBZone status would immediately hurt 34 small businesses in Skagit County that rely on this program to help grow their business and hire new workers. I introduced legislation to extend HUBZone status in Skagit County to help our local small manufacturers grow and create jobs. I urge the President to support this proposal,” he concluded.The text of the letter Larsen sent to the President is below:President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NWWashington, DC 20050Dear President Obama: As your Administration moves forward with proposals to create jobs and lay the foundation for future economic growth I am writing to urge that you support delaying by three years any changes made to the Historically Underutilized Business Zones (HUBZones) program that would force a geographic area to lose its qualification as a HUBZone.It is likely that as of October 2011 a number of geographic areas around the country, including Skagit County in my Congressional district, will lose their HUBZone status due to the release of economic data from the 2010 decennial census. During this economically challenging time with unemployment rates still much too high it is not an appropriate time to make it more difficult for small businesses to obtain federal contracts and create jobs. I have introduced legislation in the House of Representatives (H.R. 2131) to delay by three years any changes to the HUBZone map that would force an area to lose its HUBZone status. I urge the Administration to include this delay to HUBZone status for geographic areas in any jobs package that is proposed by the White House. Thank you for your attention to this matter.Sincerely,Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd DistrictCC: Karen G. Mills, SBA Administrator
08.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen congratulated Friday Harbor for winning a federal grant awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Highway Administration. Friday Harbor received $240,790 for pedestrian access safety improvements at the ferry terminal. This grant will improve pedestrian safety and circulation, ferry loading and offloading efficiency and schedule reliability at the terminal.“Ferries are a critical part of the Washington state economy and a lifeline to many folks who rely on them to commute and travel around the region,” Larsen said.“This grant will create jobs and enhance the safety for the island’s visitors and commuters. An investment of this kind will promote long-term economic growth and add to the experience Friday Harbor offers travelers,” he concluded.According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, this grant will be used to build a pedestrian barrier and gate that will allow terminal agents to stage and direct pedestrian groups during on-loading and off-loading. The project will also improve signage to provide better information for passengers.
08.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Rick Larsen today congratulated Nichols Brothers Boat Builders, located in Freeland, for winning a federal grant under the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration (MARAD) Assistance to Small Shipyards program. Nichols Brothers received $519,761 for the purchase of a 25-ton and a 40-ton mobile crane. Larsen is the Ranking Member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, which oversees MARAD and authorizes the Assistance to Small Shipyards program.“This grant is a smart federal investment that will help Nichols Brothers increase their productivity and continue to create and support local jobs,” said Larsen.According to MARAD, Assistance to Small Shipyards grants are awarded “to help make capital and infrastructure improvements that facilitate the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and quality of domestic ship construction, conversion or repair for commercial and federal government use.” Nichols Brothers was one of 13 shipyards nationwide chosen to receive a grant.
08.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in support of the Budget Control Act of 2011. “Today I voted to avert a default crisis. The impact of default on the low-income, middle class, and seniors would have been far worse than any of the cuts that are found in this bill. “The people I represent asked me to protect Social Security and assistance programs for the poor, and this bill does that. This package totally protects Social Security, Medicaid, veterans’ benefits, food stamps and other critical programs from the draconian cuts some members of Congress wanted to see.“The package largely takes changes to Medicare off the table. It protects Medicare from becoming a voucher system – a serious threat that would have ended the guaranteed benefit and program as we know it. But providers could take an overall two percent cut in reimbursement.“Compromise is never perfect.“I am disappointed that revenue is not a part of the final package. A truly balanced approach to balancing the budget over the next ten years requires revenue.“On the other hand, the package does not exclude revenue in the future, and the President still retains veto authority over extension of the Bush-era tax cut for the top income earners.“This bill forms a bi-partisan congressional committee to identify a minimum of $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction over the next ten years. The committee must provide recommendations to both chambers of Congress for a clean, up-or-down vote.“If the committee fails in its task, a trigger that is more like a hammer, will result in $1.2 trillion in across the board cuts. Half of these cuts will come from domestic programs and half from defense and security spending. That is a clear incentive for the committee to reach a compromise.“Now we need to start creating jobs. We must protect investments like college loans, research and development and other efforts that will help America maintain a cutting edge economy. These investments will help America stay ahead of the competition and set the foundation for future economic growth.
07.28.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Co-Chair of the bipartisan US-China Working Group, released the following statement after former Washington state Governor and US Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke was unanimously confirmed by the US Senate for the position of the new Ambassador to China. “I applaud the Senate for confirming Gary Locke as the new Ambassador to China. Gary will help maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world as he brings his ability to tackle tough trade issues and his commitment to freedom and democracy to this critical position. As Co-Chair of the US-China Working Group, I look forward to working with Gary to ensure the US builds upon our important economic, political and cultural relationships with China.”
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus in Congress, issued this statement in response to today’s terrorist attack in Oslo, Norway: “My thoughts and prayers are with all the Norwegian people, especially those injured and the families of those killed in what authorities are describing as a terrorist attack. “Just as Norway has continued to stand beside the United States in fighting against terrorists and terrorist attacks, the United States will stand beside our Norwegian allies. “My home state of Washington is home to many people of Norwegian descent and I know they are shocked at this attack against Norway, a country that has distinguished itself as an arbiter of peace and development in the world. “The US should stand ready to help in any way we can.
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after President Obama certified the repeal of “Don’t ask, Don’t Tell” with the support of the Secretary of Defense and all four service chiefs. President Obama signed a certification that will end the ban on gays serving openly in the military on September 20, 2011. “We should not prohibit Americas from serving their country because of their sexual orientation. “I am glad to see the President and the Department of Defense certified the repeal of the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy. For over a decade, men and women have had to hide who they are in order to wear the uniform of our country. During times of peace, but especially during times of war, whether a solider is willing, ready and able to stand up and fight for their nation is the only requirement we should be make of them.” ###
07.21.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after Tesoro published its Triangle of Prevention (TOP) report on the April 2, 2010 incident at the Anacortes Facility. The report was conducted jointly with the United Steelworkers, the local representing Tesoro employees. “As expected, this report found that there was no evidence of operator error during the April 2nd tragedy at Tesoro. My thoughts and prayers continue to go out to the families and friends of the seven individuals we lost on that day. “This report outlines several recommendations that will improve safety conditions for the facility. Protecting workers and the working environment must be a top priority, and I expect Tesoro will be taking implementation of these recommendations seriously. “The long awaited report from the U.S. Chemical Safety Board, along with this TOP report, may form a basis for future legislation that aims to make our refineries safer, doing everything we can to prevent another tragedy from occurring.” ###
07.20.2011	Washington, D.C. — Last night, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) hosted a telephone town hall meeting with over 7,600 constituents from the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state to discuss the debt ceiling negotiations and the work he is doing to tackle our nation’s debt and deficit problem.“One of my top goals in Congress is to increase opportunities for me to communicate with my constituents about the work I am doing to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us in the Pacific Northwest through investments in skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation and infrastructure, all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “Last night’s telephone town hall provided a great chance for me to chat with folks back home about important local and national issues while I had to be in Washington D.C. to cast votes.” Rep. Larsen hosted tonight’s call as part of an effort to increase opportunities for constituents to interact with him while Congress is in session. Over 7,600 constituents called in to ask Larsen questions about increasing the debt ceiling and our nation’s debt and deficit problem.“Over 7,600 people joined in the telephone town hall to share their thoughts and ask questions about the debt limit, education, helping veterans, investing in transportation and infrastructure and job growth in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Larsen. “It’s clear that people are paying attention to what Congress is doing and want us to take a balanced approach to balancing the budget that will protect economic progress and bolster private sector job growth while tackling our debt and deficit problems.”“Many callers asked why Congress and the President can’t separate deficit reduction talks from the debt ceiling negotiations. The answer is: they can and should. Default would do severe harm to our economy and middle class families. If Congress and the President cannot reach a deal on a long-term deficit reduction package before the August 2nd deadline, Congress should take a clean debt limit vote, and then get back to work on the budget.”
07.19.2011	Larsen: Cut, Cap and Balance Act is Anything but a Balanced Approach to Balancing the Budget Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen released the following statement about his intention to vote against the Cut, Cap and Balance Act. “My primary goal as a Member of Congress is to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us through investments in the skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation, and infrastructure all in order to maintain US economic leadership in the world. “The Cut, Cap and Balance Act undermines our economic leadership. “We need a balanced approach to balancing the budget that protects our economic progress and bolsters private sector job growth while working to shrink the deficit and control the debt. “I will vote against the Cut, Cap and Balance Act because it is anything but a balanced approach to balancing the budget. “H.R. 2560 is yet another example of a Republican budget that is out of touch with the needs of the country. According to the Doug Elmendorf, Director of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, $100 million in cuts next year would affect economic growth projections for the next few years. And according to the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities, the cuts included in this bill would reduce our economic growth and cause the loss of roughly 700,000 jobs. Simply put, this budget plan in conjunction with our current 9.2% unemployment rate is a recipe for economic disaster. “The budget standards in this bill are so far to the right that even President Reagan would fail to meet them. According to the Center for American Progress, President Reagan never capped spending at less than 20 percent of GDP, as this bill would mandate, which would have made all of President Reagan’s budgets unconstitutional. “In character with most Republican budget proposals, this bill will hurt our seniors by ending Medicare as we know it. Just like the Ryan Plan, the Cut, Cap and Balance Act will convert Medicare to a voucher program and the costs of healthcare will skyrocket for our seniors. “The Majority Party is only hurting our economy and middle class families as they delay Congress from taking critical action on raising the debt limit by wasting time on a plan that ends Medicare, jeopardizes economic growth and raises the unemployment rate. “If the White House and congressional negotiators can't get a long-term deficit reduction package done before America defaults on its debt, then Congress should take a clean debt limit vote, send it to the President, and get back to work on the budget. “Failure to avoid a government default will do severe harm to America's economy and the middle class. Default means higher interest rates on credit cards, student loans, home loans and business loans. “The impact of defaulting on bills that America is committed to paying is too great. Congress must avoid default, then continue the work on deficit reduction. Read the full text of Rep. Rick Larsen’s recent Op-Ed about the debt ceiling negotiations in the Everett Herald here.
07.07.2011	U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released following statement in response to the Republican transportation bill that was released earlier today. The bill proposes transportation investment over next six years at substantially lower levels than the previous five year commitment. “It is a goal of my office to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth. We need to invest in the skills and knowledge of people, and support innovation, and infrastructure to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.” “Transportation investments create jobs. Estimates state that every $1 billion in transportation infrastructure investment creates over 30,000 jobs,” Larsen said. “This proposed bill potentially takes 500,000 jobs off the table, including almost 12,000 in Washington state, because it is so inadequate for the existing transportation needs of the country.” Regarding the bill’s reversal of the long-standing consensus of federal investment in infrastructure, Larsen said, “It is a bit of back to the future. In the early days of the Republic, the party that became the Democrats argued that the federal government had no role in transportation infrastructure and the party that became the Republicans knew transportation investment creates jobs. Those roles are now reversed: Republicans think it is 1800 and are funding transportation like it is 1800. Democrats know that Americans need jobs especially the kind of jobs that come with transportation investments.” Larsen committed to working with Democrats and Republicans to find a compromise that moves the bill forward. But he held back his support for the bill because of the low funding levels and its lack of support for several key initiatives that would benefit the Pacific Northwest. “We need a national freight policy that recognizes the role important economic corridors play, like those in the Northwest,” Larsen said. “I will continue to press for a national freight policy and for a robust investment in the maritime infrastructure like the ferry systems that carry millions of people and vehicles to and from work every year in this country.” ####
07.06.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after Secretary LaHood joined with Mexico's Secretary of Transportation to sign documents that finalize the details of a new cross-border, long-haul trucking pilot program and begin the removal of Mexico's retaliatory tariffs on U.S. agriculture. “These tariffs on agricultural products have hurt our local farmers and cost Washington state over $100 million in lost exports,” said Rep. Larsen. “It is past time to end these tariffs so our region's farmers can finally regain access to a market that helps create local jobs." “We are very encouraged by the news of reduced tariffs on potatoes going into Mexico. Growers in Washington have been at an unfair disadvantage to countries like Canada who were enjoying basically no tariffs at all on frozen potato products to Mexico. The reduction on the tariff will give our processors an opportunity to compete with those countries and ship more Washington potatoes to Mexico. This will increase the chance for growers to become profitable,” Darrin Morrison, potato farmer in Skagit County. Larsen has worked over the last three years to lift these tariffs that have negatively impacted area farmers.He pressed the President, the Department of Transportation and the Office of the United States Trade Representative for a solution to the Mexican tariffs with other members of Congress. He also raised the issue directly during a meeting with the Mexican Ambassador. The announcement from the Department of Transportation is in response to the ongoing issue with the tariffs placed on American agricultural and other products by the Government of Mexico following the halt of a pilot program in March 2009 requiring safety inspections of trucks entering the United States from Mexico. The reciprocal program between the United States and Mexico will trigger the lifting of retaliatory tariffs first imposed by Mexico over two years ago. 50% of Mexican tariffs on U.S. products will be eliminated on July 8th, and the remaining 50% will be suspended within five business days from the date on which the first Mexican carrier receives authorization under the new program. The WA State Department of Commerce estimates that WA state has lost over $100 million in lost exports of agricultural products due to the tariffs imposed by Mexico. ###
06.21.2011	Tomorrow night, President Obama will lay out the next steps in our relationship with Afghanistan. It is clear from my conversations with folks in Northwest Washington that the American public is ready to have our troops on the ground in Afghanistan return home, and they are concerned with the level of spending to maintain our military presence. As of March 2011, the United States has devoted $444 billion dollars to military operations in Afghanistan, an amount that will continue to grow. And we have 100,000 service members in Afghanistan. Our military efforts have largely driven Al-Qaeda from that country, and while some Taliban forces remain, they are largely being defeated and the Afghan government is taking control over security in 3 provinces and 4 cities. It is time for us to move forward in our relationship with Afghanistan. It is time to start a responsible transition from troops to trade; in other words, the nature of the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan will remain strong, yet it should change. When President Obama addresses the nation tomorrow, I fully expect for him to announce how we will turn over control of key provinces and areas to Afghan forces and how we will strengthen and expand our partnership with the Afghan government and the Afghan people. I also expect him to lay out a plan for bringing our troops home, including a substantial reduction of forces by the end of this year. As I said previously, I believe we must start an accelerated transition of forces from Afghanistan. I support having at least the 33,000 surge troops redeployed from Afghanistan by the end of 2012. For that reason, last month I voted for the bipartisan McGovern-Jones Amendment to the 2012 National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment required a plan and timeframe for an accelerated transition of military operations to Afghan authorities as well as a plan and timeframe on negotiations leading to a political solution and reconciliation in Afghanistan. Importantly, the amendment did not prohibit the President from attacking Al Qaeda forces wherever they are located, from gathering, providing, or sharing intelligence with U.S. allies operating in Afghanistan or Pakistan, or from modifying US military operations during redeployment. Our goal still ought to be to deter, disrupt and defeat Al Qaeda. This can – and should –be done with fewer U.S. troops. It is time to close the chapter on significant U.S. military presence and open the chapter on U.S. diplomacy and trade with our partner. We have established diplomatic and economic relations with most countries in the world. Afghanistan should not be different. To simply remove our troops without regard for the Afghan future would be to abandon our ally. The U.S. does not abandon countries that have stood with it. Therefore, I further urge one more step: to show the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan, the U.S. should immediately open negotiations with the Afghan government on a new strategic framework that provides structure to the long term relationship our two countries ought to have. It is time to move from a relationship based on the number of US troops in Afghanistan to one based the amount of trade we should have. For that reason, I sent a letter to Undersecretary of Defense for Policy Michele Flournoy strongly urging that the Administration establish a strategic framework with Afghanistan, similar to the Strategic Framework Agreement with Iraq, launched in late 2008. Such efforts to strengthen economic ties, cultural exchanges, and diplomatic cooperation should grow between our countries. I will be watching the President’s speech tomorrow night and I hope what he says reflects the desire from most Americans that our burden in Afghanistan, both in lives lost and in money spent, is one that should soon be brought to a close.
06.16.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to help seniors and fight oil and gas speculation as gas prices continue to soar. Larsen voted against H.R. 2112, appropriations for the Agriculture Department, as it included harmful cuts that would hurt seniors and low-income families. “We need to take a balanced approach to cut spending and get our fiscal house in order,” said Rep. Larsen. “But there is nothing balanced about denying critical help to seniors and families who can’t afford to buy groceries for their families.” This bill includes a 21 percent cut to the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) which offers critical help to low-income seniors. The CSFP provides nutritious food for low-income seniors in Northwest Washington and helps close to 1000 seniors in the 2nd District. Larsen has visited the Volunteers of America Food Bank in Everett that receives help from CSFP to provide low-income people across Snohomish County with nutritious food, such as dairy and vegetables. The majority of the people who benefit from CSFP are seniors. “We need to provide our seniors with the critical help they need -not cut them off from a lifeline that ensures they can buy groceries every week,” said Rep. Larsen. “First, the Republicans vote to eliminate Medicare and now they want to deny low-income seniors the help they need to put food on the table. I will keep fighting to protect Medicare and make sure seniors in Northwest Washington get the help they need during these tough economic times.”Larsen voted to support an effort that would help enhance enforcement against oil and gas speculators and eliminate speculation that drives up gas prices. “At a time when gas prices continue to put pressure on families’ pocketbooks, this bill does nothing to fight speculation. I voted for an effort to increase funding for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), an independent agency established to protect the public from unfair market practices. Directing CFTC funding toward enforcement against oil and gas speculators is one way to help halt artificial gas price hikes,” said Rep. Larsen.
06.09.2011	Larsen Introduces Legislation to Help Job Creation and Economic Growth in Skagit CountyLast week, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to protect the Small Business Association (SBA) HUBZone program that helps businesses in Skagit County create good local jobs. When Larsen learned that Skagit County could lose is HUBZone status this year due to a formula related to the recent census, he introduced H.R. 2131, the Protect HUBZones Act of 2011, to delay any changes to the HUBZone map for three years.The SBA HUBZone program is a small business federal contracting assistance program whose primary objective is job creation and increasing capital investment in local communities. It provides participating small businesses located in areas with low income, high poverty rates, or high unemployment rates with contracting opportunities in the form of "set-asides," sole-source awards, and price-evaluation preferences. "We need to help our small and medium-sized manufacturers grow and create good jobs for folks in the community-not deny them the critical programs that are helping them hire new workers,"said Rep. Larsen. "The loss of HUBZone status would immediately hurt 34 small businesses in Skagit County that rely on this program to help grow their business and hire new workers. I introduced legislation to extend HUBZone status in Skagit County to help our local small manufacturers grow and create jobs." Local business leaders in Skagit County praised Larsen for introducing this legislation."HUBZone status supports and fosters business opportunities for Skagit manufacturers—this sector is critical to job creation and economic recovery," said Don Wick, Executive Director of the Economic Development Association of Skagit County. "We appreciate Congressman Larsen’s efforts to extend this very important program for our manufacturing community. We need this extension to help put people back to work." "The Port of Skagit strongly supports redesignation of Skagit County’s HUBzone status. With 34 local businesses participating in this program, two of which are port tenants, we have first-hand knowledge of its value to our community," "HUBZone status has helped Munson in increasing our competitiveness with other aluminum boat builders who are also in HUBZone areas (mainly in the Gulf). HUBZone status will also help in the down-select process for the USCG Cutter Boat OTH Mark 4 project for 101 boats. We were just notified by the USCG with their intent to award us a 1 boat for the Phase 1 down-select process. We are 1 of 4 companies selected,"### said Jess Munson, Vice President of Munson Boats, a company that supports 51 employees. said Patsy Martin, Executive Director of the Port of Skagit County.
06.07.2011	This week, the Committee on Energy and Commerce released a report outlining the impact of the budget passed by House Republicans on Medicare. This budget will significantly cut spending for Medicare by eliminating benefits and shifting costs, turn Medicare into a voucher system and increase the eligibility age for Medicare. Larsen is in Northwest Washington this week meeting with local seniors about the work he is doing to protect Medicare. said Rep. Rick Larsen. "This report outlines the many ways in which the Republican budget will hurt local seniors and slash the critical Medicare benefits that seniors in our community need and deserve. I’ve met with many local seniors who have made it clear to me that they will not stand for these cuts. I will continue to oppose this budget proposal and work to protect Medicare."In the 2nd Congressional District, the Republican budget would:Increase prescription drug costs for 7,500 local seniors who fall in the Part D donut hole and force them to pay an additional $74 million for prescription drug costs over the next decadeThe average beneficiary will pay $520 more this year and over $9,800 more throughout the next decadeIt would also eliminate new preventive care benefits for 110,000 Medicare beneficiaries As for individuals who are not yet enrolled in Medicare, this budget would have even greater impacts.560,000 individuals under the age of 54 would be denied access to Medicare122,000 individuals between the ages of 44 to 54 would see their out-of-pocket health care costs rise by over $6,000 in 2022 and by nearly $12,000 per year in 2032Would raise the Medicare eligibility age by at least one year for 65,000 individuals in the district who are currently between the ages of 44 to 49 and by two years for 434,000 individuals in the district who are under 43### "House Republicans are not giving up on their plan to end Medicare as we know it," House Committee Releases Report Outlining Costs for Local Seniors and Medicare from House Budget
05.30.2011	Rep Rick Larsen released the following statement to honor service members and veterans this Memorial Day.“Memorial Day is much more than a three-day weekend that marks the beginning of summer. It is a solemn day to remember those who died serving our country. On Memorial Day and every day, I join you in honoring those who gave their lives to keep us safe.“This Memorial Day comes at a time when many men and women in the armed forces are deployed around the globe. As a nation, we owe a debt to them and to all veterans who have served and sacrificed.“The Second District is home to over 75,000 veterans as well as Naval Station Everett and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, two military installations that are vital to our national security and regional economy. One of my most important responsibilities as a member of Congress and a member of the House Armed Services Committee is to support our service members, veterans and their families, ensuring that they get the benefits they have earned and deserve.“In these tough economic times, it is more important than ever that we make sure the men and women who put their lives on the line for this country are able to find good jobs. I supported increasing work opportunities for veterans by cosponsoring H.R. 865, the Veterans Employment Transition (VETS) Act, which would provide a tax credit to employers for hiring veterans that recently discharged from the military.“It is important that the men and women who served our country get the retirement pay they earned and deserve. I supported providing full benefits to veterans eligible for both military retiree pay and disability compensation by cosponsoring H.R. 303, the Retired Pay Restoration Act, which would end the prohibition of receiving both pay and compensation. I also supported providing full benefits to families eligible for both military retiree pay and dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) by cosponsoring H.R. 178, the Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act.“Unfortunately, too many veterans are struggling with homelessness. I am working to help at-risk and homeless veterans by increasing their access to stable housing by cosigning a letter to House Appropriators encouraging full funding of the HUD/VASH programs, which gives homeless veterans, or veterans at-risk of becoming homeless, housing vouchers.“I worked hard to bring veterans’ health care closer to home by teaming up with local veterans to open the veterans’ clinic in Mount Vernon. Veterans in Northwest Washington fought hard to protect our country and fought hard to make this clinic a reality. It is great to see so many local veterans enrolling at this clinic so they no longer have to travel to Seattle to get the health care and services they need and deserve.“I am pleased to share that Mount Vernon’s Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC) will be adding additional specialty care services. With mental health services already established, audiology will be online in May, ophthalmology in June and dental services following soon after. “Helping veterans, their families and survivors is one of the most rewarding parts of my job. Please contact my office at our toll free phone number: 800.562.1385 if you need help finding the status of a VA claim, obtaining un-awarded service medals, obtaining service records from the National Personnel Records Center, or if you want a flag flown over the United States Capitol in a family member’s honor.”###
05.26.2011	Today, the House unanimously adopted an amendment to H.R. 1540, the Fiscal Year 2012 (FY12) National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), offered by Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to establish a Global Contingency Security Fund.“I am very pleased that this amendment will be a part of the Defense Authorization bill. It will give the Departments of State and Defense the flexibility they need to help train and equip our foreign partners. For the past few years, I have grown increasingly concerned about the barriers that exist between the State and DOD preventing them from adequately coordinating operations where diplomatic, development and military resources may be necessary to address the complicated issues we face in failing states or countries that ask for our help.”“My amendment establishes a pooled fund, financed and administered by both State and DOD, which will assist our foreign partners to develop their own security and economic tools. Building partner capacity is one of the best things the U.S. can do to stabilize volatile regions around the world.”Larsen’s amendment establishes the Global Contingency Security Fund. It will be jointly administered by the Secretaries of State and Defense and will authorize providing assistance to enhance foreign nation’s efforts in border and maritime security, military forces capabilities, and counterterrorism operations. Foreign nations receiving the assistance must already be eligible to receive aid under other foreign assistance programs, and the assistance received from this Fund must promote the observance and respect of human rights as well as respect for legitimate civilian authority.“This amendment was first developed by former Chairman Ike Skelton and I was pleased to work with leadership of the Armed Services and Foreign Affairs committees to have it included in the Defense Authorization bill.”The amendment was cosponsored by House Armed Services Committee Chair Howard “Buck” McKeon and Ranking Member Adam Smith and House Foreign Affairs Committee Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Ranking Member Howard Berman.###
05.26.2011	Today, Rep. Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Brady (TX-08), Rep. Crowley (NY-07), Rep. Herger (CA-02) and Rep. Lungren (CA-03) introduced the APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) bill to help level the playing field for American business leaders traveling overseas. The ABTC is an initiative in support of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, designed to facilitate commerce by promoting fast and efficient travel of eligible business people and government officials within the APEC region. The ABTC will allow members to use designated travel lanes in airports and get expedited visa processing to help make overseas business travel more efficient. “We need to make sure we are equipping our business leaders with the tools and resources they need to compete in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Larsen (WA-02). “The APEC Business Travel Card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas so they can grow their businesses and help maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.”“American businesses that compete in the fast-paced world economy are hamstrung by overly complicated travel restrictions. This legislation streamlines travel to other APEC countries for American business people and will provide American business travelers the same treatment abroad that eligible foreign business travelers receive here in the U.S.” said Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08).“This legislation is important to help U.S. businesses compete in Asia, which has become the fastest growing region in the world. We need to correct the disparity in the current system and allow U.S. business travelers the same access to APEC member nations that their citizens receive in the U.S. This will help our businesses get better access to sell U.S. goods and services abroad and create new opportunities for growth and jobs here in our nation,” said Rep. Wally Herger (CA-02)."Introduction of this legislation is a critical first step in the long-overdue issuance of the APEC Business Travel Card to U.S. business leaders. By issuing a card that would allow U.S. business travelers to take advantage of travel benefits already agreed to by nearly all APEC countries, our government would help facilitate travel in to and within the APEC region. Full participation in the travel card program would end the competitive advantage other APEC countries have in the region and allow American businesses the same benefits as their foreign counterparts," Monica Whaley, President of the National Center for APEC, stated.The U.S. began participation in the ABTC program as a “transitional member” in 2007. President Bush pledged to begin issuing ABTC’s to American business travelers by 2008. American business travelers are unable to benefit from U.S. entry into the program even though the U.S. has been extending benefits of the ABTC to their foreign competitors and counterparts for almost two years. Until the U.S. establishes a system for issuing ABTCs to qualified U.S. citizens, U.S. businesspeople will continue to be unable to take advantage of this program.###
05.26.2011	Votes for Amendment to Force the President to Give Congress a Plan and Timeframe for Accelerated TransitionRep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for an amendment to force the President to give Congress a plan and a timeframe for redeploying troops from Afghanistan. This amendment would require the President to provide a plan and timeframe for an accelerated transition of Afghan military operations from U.S. troops to Afghan troops, would require the President to provide a plan for negotiating with the Afghan government and interest parties a political settlement of internal conflict, and would require the Director of National Intelligence to provide an Intelligence Estimate on the leadership, locations and capabilities of al Qaeda and its affiliates.Two and a half years ago, I stated that the U.S. needed a substantial and sustained commitment in Afghanistan. I still believe that to be true, but the nature of that commitment must now change.It is clear from my conversations with folks in Northwest Washington that the American public is ready to have our troops on the ground in Afghanistan return home, and they are concerned with the level of spending to maintain our military presence. As of March 2011, the United States has devoted $444 billion dollars to military operations in Afghanistan, an amount that will continue to grow. And we have 100,000 service members in Afghanistan.Our military efforts have largely driven Al-Qaeda from that country, and while some Taliban forces remain, they are largely being defeated and the Afghan government is taking control over security in 3 provinces and 4 cities.It is time for us to move forward in our relationship with Afghanistan. It is time to start a responsible transition from troops to trade; in other words, the nature of the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan will remain strong, yet it should change. For this reason, I will support the bipartisan McGovern-Jones Amendment to the 2012 National Defense Authorization Act. The amendment requires a plan and timeframe for an accelerated transition of military operations to Afghan authorities. It requires a plan and timeframe on negotiations leading to a political solution and reconciliation in Afghanistan. Importantly, the amendment does not prohibit the President from attacking Al Qaeda forces wherever they are located, from gathering, providing, or sharing intelligence with U.S. allies operating in Afghanistan or Pakistan, or from modifying US military operations during redeployment. Our goal still ought to be to deter, disrupt and defeat Al Qaeda. I further urge one more step: to show the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan, the U.S. should immediately open negotiations with the Afghan government on a new strategic framework that provides structure to the long term relationship our two countries ought to have. It is time to move from a relationship based on the number of US troops in Afghanistan to one based on the amount of trade we should have.We have established diplomatic and economic relations with most countries in the world. Afghanistan should not be different. To simply remove our troops without regard for the Afghan future would be to abandon our ally. The U.S. does not abandon countries that have stood with it.The President will soon announce his recommendations for moving forward in Afghanistan. These recommendations will presumably include an outline of the number of troops he will redeploy. The McGovern-Jones amendment provides clear guidance to the President about what the American people now expect: a plan and a timeframe for an accelerated transition in Afghanistan.”###
05.17.2011	Rep. Larsen released the following statement after receiving reports that the county and tribe negotiated a solution to keep the ferry running."I am pleased with reports that I am hearing that the hard work of Executive Kremen and the Whatcom County Council along with Chairman Cultee and the Lummi Tribe has paid off. Reports indicate that the county and the tribe were able negotiate a productive solution that ensures long-term stability for the lease agreement, keeps the ferry running and helps the county and tribe move their relationship forward."###
05.16.2011	Arlington--At a local AARP event featuring Representative Rick Larsen, local seniors expressed strong opposition to the recently passed Republican budget that makes Medicare a voucher system in the future and applauded Rep. Larsen when he reminded them he voted against it."Any concern seniors had about Democrats after last year seems to have disappeared with the Republican effort to end Medicare as we know it, " Larsen said after the event. "Local seniors made it clear to me that they want me to continue fighting against Republican cuts to Medicare and work to protect the critical medical benefits that they deserve."###
05.16.2011	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today congratulated Orcas Island and Arlington airports for receiving grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). According the FAA, the Port of Orcas will receive over $260,000 to increase safety and improve operations at the Orcas Island Airport by rehabilitating the existing apron pavement. The City of Arlington will receive over $369,000 to enable the airport to control land use within the runway protection zone.“These airports are driving economic growth in our communities and I’m pleased that Arlington and Orcas Island will receive this critical funding to help them grow and thrive,” said Larsen. “Investing in our local airports will help support good jobs and keep our economy moving.” ###
05.13.2011	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, local leaders expressed their support for a piece of bipartisan legislation that Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd) introduced with U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Mark Begich (D-AK), to dramatically strengthen our federal investment in ferry systems nationwide, including Washington State Ferries. More than 100 million passengers take ferries every year in at least 38 states, often between work and home. The transportation services offered by ferries are critical to communities across the country, and their regional economies. However, according to the Department of Transportation, one fourth of ferry systems are 40 years or older and five percent are 60 years or older. The U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act works to improve this aging fleet, and the ferry infrastructure as a whole.“Ferries are a critical part of keeping the economy in Washington state moving as they carry commerce and commuters around the region,” said Rep. Larsen. “Washington State Ferries is the largest ferry system in the country and carries over 25 million riders annually. We must invest in our ferry system to create good jobs, promote long-term economic growth and help ensure that the folks who rely on ferries to get to work are traveling safely and efficiently.”Dean Maxwell, Mayor of Anacortes, said: "This is wonderful. I am glad that our ferries are a high priority of Rep. Larsen and Senators Murray and Cantwell. This kind of investment into our state’s ferry system will only serve to strengthen the Anacortes and State economy and help all of the other waterfront communities that rely on this critical piece of Washington’s transportation infrastructure. This couldn't have come at a better time, especially given the current budget issues our State is facing. Investment in critical infrastructure is the proven way to getting out of a bad economy.”Nancy Conard, Mayor of Coupeville, WA said: “I am delighted that our federal representatives are recognizing the critical role that ferries play in the transportation system. Just like roads and bridges, ferries should be given equal consideration.” State Senator Mary Margaret Haugen, 10th Legislative District said:“I am so pleased to see a federal commitment on the importance of our country’s marine highways. This act certainly shows the quality of leadership we have in our congressional delegation in that they were able to put this investment package together. In Washington State, the ferry routes are considered a part of the state highway system, and this act is incredibly important particularly to those areas of the state that are only accessible by ferry. Our state will certainly benefit from this program and I appreciate the dedication of our delegation in Washington, DC.” ###
05.11.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting against two pieces of legislation that will expand offshore drilling in way that abandons environmental and safety precautions.“While we should continue to allow offshore drilling in locations where it is already occurring, we need to ensure that we are strictly enforcing safety protocol and being mindful of the lessons we learned from the Deepwater Horizon oil spill last year.“Both of the bills that I voted on today violated the basic premise that offshore drilling needs to be consistent with the increased safety and environmental requirements that were enacted to minimize the likelihood of another catastrophic oil spill.“In the process of voting on these bills, the majority party also prevented us from voting on a bill that would expand advanced vehicle technology, critical research and development that would directly affect gas prices and that would ensure America continues to build the cars and trucks of the future.“Last week, Congress was also thwarted in its attempt to eliminate subsidies for big oil and gas companies who are making profits while consumers pay more at the pump. I voted to eliminate these subsidies and am working on legislation to decrease the use of foreign sources of energy.“America needs to overhaul its energy policy to reduce dependence on foreign sources of energy and reduce our exposure to market speculators who drive up gas prices. “Washington state families and businesses are feeling the pain at the pump. We must end the cycle of rising gas prices hitting everyone, year in and year out. I am working with my colleagues and will continue to support efforts that expand our resources, move us off of foreign dependence, and put our energy future on stable footing.”###
05.06.2011	Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. The legislation will protect the free-flowing character of Illabot Creek, an important habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, while maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing. “Protecting the Illabot Creek is an important step toward preserving what makes Washington state so unique,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Washingtonians take great pride in our state’s tremendous natural beauty and the wildlife that inhabit it. I applaud the volunteers who have been working tirelessly over the years to protect the creek so that its wildlife and beauty can be experienced and enjoyed by future generations, and I’m proud to be a partner in this effort.”“Illabot Creek is a critical habitat and an important part of Washington state’s environmental heritage,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “Designating Illabot Creek as a Wild and Scenic River will help protect endangered salmon, eagles and other wildlife and ensure that folks from Skagit County and visitors to the region are able to continue hunting, fishing and enjoying the many recreational opportunities that the creek offers for generations to come.”Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. Illabot Creek provides crucial spawning habitat for wild Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout, all threatened species, and is home to numerous other species including bald eagles that roost along the creek.The Skagit River watershed supports one of the largest concentrations of wintering bald eagles in the lower 48 states. Because of the abundance of salmon and the high quality of habitat, Illabot Creek is the center of foraging activity and supports two communal night roosts. One roost area is within the existing Skagit Wild and Scenic River corridor. The second is within the proposed Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River designation. This abundance of bald eagles is a major attraction in Skagit County, and supports tourist activity, including the Upper Skagit Bald Eagle Festival.The National Wild and Scenic Rivers System was created by Congress in 1968 to preserve certain rivers of outstanding value in a free-flowing condition for future generations. The Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River Act will prohibit dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of a the river and establish a protected corridor extending one-quarter mile from the ordinary high-water mark on both sides of the river. Designating Illabot Creek as a National Wild and Scenic River will complement other local habitat protection and salmon and trout recovery efforts that are underway in the Skagit basin.According to The Nature Conservancy, Illabot Creek and the surrounding area are home to the following species: Chinook salmon, Chum salmon, Coho salmon, Pink salmon, Sockeye salmon, Steelhead trout, Bull trout, Cutthroat trout, Marten, Roosevelt elk, Western toad, Bald eagle, Band-tailed pigeon, Blue grouse, Kestrel, Marbled murrelet, Northern spotted owl, Olive-sided flycatcher, Osprey, Pacific slope flycatcher, Peregrine falcon, Rufous hummingbird, Townsend’s warbler, Western wood peewee, and the Willow flycatcher.###
05.02.2011	A delegation of five Members of the US House of Representatives, in partnership with the National Committee on US-China Relations, returned to Washington DC from China after achieving a series of first time visits with Chinese military leaders and activities in support of furthering the US-China military to military relationship. The delegation visited Beijing, Qingdao, Chengdu, and Shanghai before returning to Washington DC late Sunday night.“This US-China Working Group trip to China was certainly a trip of many firsts,” said Rep. Rick Larsen, co-chair of the US-China Working Group. “Most notably, while in Qingdao, we were the first American civilians to board and tour a Song Class People Liberation Army – Navy (PLA-N) submarine. It took some persistence on our delegation’s part to make it happen, but the importance of these firsts should not be underestimated in light of the recent resumption in US-China mil-to-mil talks,” said Larsen. The Song class is the most advanced diesel-electric attack submarine type to have been designed and built by indigenous Chinese effort. US military leaders have visited the boat in the past but we were the first American civilians to be invited and take the opportunity to make the visit. Other key firsts for the trip included the first foreign civilian delegation to tour and visit the PLA-N Submarine Academy and the first to visit PLA-N North Sea Fleet Headquarters. The group led by Larsen and Rep. Charles Boustany, co-chair of the USCWG, included Representatives Eric Paulsen (MN), Hank Johnson (GA) and Mike Coffman (CO). While in Beijing, the delegation also shared dinner with PLA General Chen Bingde, China’s top military officer. “Our Chinese hosts saw the importance of the visit as it is a major step in openness and transparency in the U.S.-China relationship,” Boustany said. “Our delegation stressed the importance of a consistent sustained military-to-military agenda – one that parallels or is integrated into existing U.S.-China discussions. We emphasized Congress is keenly interested in the progress to deepen trust between our two countries." Following the dinner, General Chen announced that he will be visiting Washington DC for high-level military dialogues later this month. Another key visit was to the Chengdu Aircraft Industry (CAI) Group – specifically the Chengdu State Aircraft Factory 132, a supplier of aircraft for the Chinese military. – and the manufacturer of China’s new J-20 Stealth Fighter.The delegation was also told that they were the first Congressional delegation to tour the Flying Tiger museum in Chengdu. The visits added to more firsts for that the USCWG has achieved since being founded in 2005. In January 2006, the USCWG was the first to visit the Chinese space launch facility in Jiuquan.In August, 2007, the USCWG was the first to visit the Chinese taikonaut training facility. “There are current attempts in Congress to cut down exchanges and engagements between US and Chinese government agencies. We seek to expand the engagement opportunities between our two countries whenever appropriate,” said Larsen and Boustany.###
05.02.2011	US Rep Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden."Ten years ago our nation was united in a common purpose -- to protect our country from further terrorist attacks and capture or kill those who attacked our nation. The announcement of Osama bin Laden's death stands as the strongest accomplishment in that effort."Osama bin Laden provided the intellectual and inspirational leadership for the September 11th attacks. His death aids the ongoing mission to disrupt and dismantle terrorist networks around the world, and it provides a morale boost to our men and women in uniform. Thousands of Americans and our allies have served tirelessly in this fight against terrorists - and while that fight does not end with the death of bin Laden, this is an enormous achievement."I join in honoring all of the U.S. personnel in this effort, civilian and military. I echo the President's call for unity at this time. And I ask everyone to remember the families of the victims of the September 11th attacks. "###
04.29.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and officials from the City of Burlington celebrated the announcement that Burlington was awarded a grant for over $500,000 from the U.S. Department of Transportation to help with construction of the Burlington-Skagit County Regional Scenic Byway Visitor Center. Larsen supported this project through meetings with local officials and a letter to the Department of Transportation advocating for the grant.“Building a new visitor center in Burlington is going to create good jobs in the community now and well into the future,” said Rep. Larsen. “This building will help revitalize the Burlington downtown and attract more visitors to the region who will spend their dollars here and help support businesses and the local economy.”“The creation of a focal point for downtown has been a dream of the community for over twenty years. This will move the redevelopment of downtown forward, including new businesses, mixed use development and renovation of existing businesses. This is the economic driver that will bring new businesses and development to the heart of town, and boost sales in the I-5 retail core area substantially,” said Mayor Ed Brunz. “Job creation includes 20+ construction jobs and many long term employment opportunities in addition to four immediate permanent positions. It is estimated that once the facility opens, several hundred new jobs will be indirectly created because of the positive economic effects across the city. Design of the facility was funded with Lodging Tax dollars and the strong support of the local lodging industry.”“The creation of the Burlington-Skagit County Regional Scenic Byway Visitor Center will bring many new visitors to Burlington to stay in our hotels, shop and enjoy the Skagit Valley experience,” Brunz continued."This grant will revolutionize downtown Burlington. A group of Burlington citizens have worked for 20 years to achieve this park. Everyone can use the park and we are now truly the Hub City!" said Duane Stowe, a long time Downtown Business Owner.###
04.26.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the announcement that the Department of Justice established the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group.“Last week the President’s announced the formation of an Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group. This group must take a hard look at the manipulation of gas prices – determining where and when any fraud of prices took place. We must make sure that every effort is being taken to identify and halt speculation.“All across Washington, families and small businesses are once again struggling to meet the demanding budget strain caused by skyrocketing gas prices. When gas prices hit record highs three years ago, I voted in favor of the creation of a task force similar to the one now being formed. I expect this group to present a complete picture to the President and hope any findings of manipulation will be swiftly addressed by the Administration and by Congress.“There is no simple fix or solution for rising gas prices. We must crack down on speculators, but ultimately long-term investments and policy changes are the only way to stabilize our energy future. I will continue to listen and work with my constituents to address their needs. This situation affects all of us and we must take the necessary steps to end the cycle.”On August 21st, the President and Attorney General Eric Holder announced the formation of the Oil and Gas Price Fraud Working Group. In his memo outlining the group, Mr. Holder called for the exploration of “whether there is any evidence of manipulation of oil and gas prices, collusion, fraud or misinterpretations at the retail or wholesale levels that would violate state or federal laws and that has harmed consumers…” and the evaluation of “the role of speculators and index traders in oil futures markets.”The Energy Information Administration reports that the average price of unleaded regular fuel in Washington last week was $3.94 per gallon, 88 cents higher than it was one year ago and ten cents higher than the national average.###
04.15.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement after voting against the Republican Budget Resolution for the 2012 Fiscal Year. “I set a goal for myself to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us in the Pacific Northwest through investments in skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation, and infrastructure all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world. “When I looked at this budget proposal, I asked myself if it would help create jobs and boost economic leadership in the world and the answer is no. “The Republican budget proposal slashes critical help by eliminating Medicare while the Democrats’ budget proposal strengthens the guaranteed benefit of Medicare so seniors can count on it for years to come. “The Republican budget hurts students by cutting critical Pell Grants that help thousands of young adults in the Pacific Northwest achieve the dream of higher education while the Democrats’ budget proposal maintains this essential investment in our youth that will help them land good jobs after graduation and contribute to economic leadership in the world. “The Republican budget extends tax breaks to the top two percent of income earners while the Democrats’ budget proposal asks for shared sacrifice to address our debt and deficit problem. “Debts and deficits matter. We need to control spending but we need to take a balanced approach that will tackle our debt and deficit problem while protecting our economic progress and job creation efforts.” Outside economic groups that have weighed in on this budget proposal dismiss many of the Republican claims that the budget will grow jobs and boost the economy. From their analysis, the budget will actually hurt job growth and economic progress. Macroeconomic Advisers, the highly respected economic forecasting firm, said House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan’s claim that this budget will lower unemployment to 2 percent by 2021 is “nonsense.” They also rejected the claim that the spending cuts in this proposal will generate economic growth. “We don’t believe this finding, which was generated by manipulating an economic model that that would not otherwise have produced the result.’’ And the Economic Policy Institute said: “The proposal would also bring non-security discretionary (NSD) funding down to its lowest level as a share of gross domestic product in over 50 years, and to less than half of the average level of NSD funding during the Reagan administration. The immediate impact of these cuts would be a significant loss of jobs in an economy already 11 million jobs short of reaching pre-recession unemployment rates.” ###
04.14.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for a budget compromise to fund the government for the remainder of the 2011 Fiscal Year. “Earlier this year I set a goal for myself to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us in the Pacific Northwest through investments in skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation, and infrastructure all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world. I will keep working to achieve this goal by pushing for a responsible budget that will grow our economy and fuel private sector job growth by making key investments. “I supported this budget compromise because it takes a balanced approach towards tackling our debt and deficit problem while preserving our economic progress and critical job creation efforts. “I am pleased that the compromise protects essential initiatives like support for our manufacturers and critical student loans that are helping to grow the economy, create jobs and help hardworking families in Northwest Washington. “The compromise includes $448 million that will go directly to closing the backlog of veterans’ claims at the VA. Making veterans and their families wait for weeks or months on end to receive compensation they have earned cannot happen, and I am glad to see this money included. Additionally, I was pleased that the bill restored funding for HUD-VASH vouchers. This program is one of the most successful at getting – and keeping – homeless veterans off the street and into permanent housing. If we are to meet the goal of ending veterans homelessness, we will need strong support for these types of programs. “The budget compromise protects the Pell Grant program as we know it, which will allow students in Northwest Washington to continue to count on this critical student aid to help them achieve the dream of higher education. “Debts and deficits matter. We need to control spending if we want to get serious about tackling our deficit and controlling our debt but we need to do it in a balanced way. I voted for this budget compromise because it is a more balanced approach to reducing spending than the Republicans’ proposal for the 2012 budget which will eliminate Medicare.” ###
04.13.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) hosted a conference call with community members from Northwest Washington. Members from local hospitals, seniors groups and medical organizations joined the call to share their concerns about the future of Medicare and ask Rep. Larsen questions about the impact of the Republican Medicare plan. “It is clear that local health care leaders share my concern that seniors cannot afford the Republican plan for Medicare that will eliminate this critical benefit as we know it.“In the 2nd District of Washington state, 97 percent of seniors have Medicare, Medicaid or both and nearly 50 percent of seniors’ household income in the 2nd District is from Social Security. We need to be fighting to ensure seniors get the quality care they need and the guaranteed benefits they have earned not burdening them with costs they cannot afford during these tough economic times. “To illustrate how devastating this proposal would be on local seniors: 25% of seniors in Whatcom County get 100% of their income from Social Security, which averages about $1000 per month. Currently, this population spends about $300 per month on healthcare costs. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, these out-of-pocket costs would more than double under the Republican budget proposal. This is unacceptable for seniors in the region. “I support the reforms we have already made to Medicare that saves taxpayer money while improving care to seniors without cutting care to seniors. The new Republican plan shifts costs to seniors and eliminates Medicare.”###
04.13.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, co-led an oversight hearing on Improving and Streamlining the Coast Guard’s Acquisition Program The Subcommittee received testimony from the following witnesses: Vice Admiral John Currier, Deputy Commandant for Mission Support, United States Coast Guard; and Mr. John P. Hutton, Director of Acquisition and Sourcing Management, Government Accountability Office. “We have an obligation to ensure the Coast Guard and the men and women who serve are equipped to handle the demands we place upon them,” said Rep. Larsen. “But we need to get this right. History demonstrates that the Coast Guard will be relying on the assets it purchases today for many more years than anticipated. We also need to be practical and recognize that a course correction of this magnitude simply does not happen overnight.” Below is Larsen’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA), Democratic Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Opening Statement at Hearing on Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation “Improving and Streamlining the Coast Guard’s Acquisition Program” April 13, 2011 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this morning’s hearing to continue the subcommittee’s oversight of the U.S. Coast Guard’s major acquisition programs and policies. I appreciate the opportunity to examine the status of the Coast Guard’s acquisition activities and to assess current acquisition management challenges. The Coast Guard is a multi-mission agency with a diverse portfolio of operations including vessel inspections, search and rescue, port security and oil spill response. In short, our nation’s “Guardian of the Sea”, protects our coasts, ensures safe and efficient maritime commerce and supports hundreds of thousands of maritime jobs. When the Coast Guard began its recapitalization program in 1996, it set out on a daunting task. The Coast Guard intended to replace or modernize its aging fleet of over 90 cutters and some 200 aircraft – and it attempted to do so through an unproven procurement process using a single entity to fulfill its needs. By the time the Deepwater contract was executed with Integrated Coast Guard Systems in June 2002, GAO and others had already raised concerns. As was made painfully clear during the course of the subcommittee’s four oversight hearings on this issue during the 110th and 111th Congresses, the Coast Guard’s past oversight and management of its major system acquisitions – especially of the $27 billion Deepwater Program which was to procure these entirely new fleets of vessels and aircraft – was woefully insufficient and ineffective. Regrettably, the Service’s inadequate oversight led to substantial cost overruns, design flaws, delays in the delivery of new assets, and perhaps worst of all, a diminution of the Coast Guard’s operational capabilities at sea and in the air. The Government Accountability Office reaffirmed this determination through multiple analyses. GAO has conducted no fewer than 15 audits and evaluations of the Deepwater Program since 2001. I look forward to hearing this morning from John Hutton, GAO’s Director for Acquisitions and Management, as the GAO releases its latest update on the Coast Guard’s progress in reforming its acquisition process. To provide the necessary course correction, the Congress included in Title IV of last year’s Coast Guard reauthorization legislation specific provisions to overhaul the Service’s acquisition policies. New requirements were – appointment of a Chief Acquisition Officer,imposition of a system of acquisitions controls to ensure that operational requirements are well-defined before initiating acquisition efforts,new requirements to ensure all acquired assets undergo thorough testing, andthe development and maintenance of an acquisition management career path within the Service. I am very interested in hearing from Admiral Currier on the Coast Guard’s progress in implementing these reforms. Mr. Chairman, acquisition policy is not just a function of process. Our policies are also reflected in the budgetary resources we devote to programs. At our budget oversight hearing on March 1, we heard a lot about doing “more with less.” However, I believe that we also established that the more likely outcome of fewer resources is that the Coast Guard will be doing “less with less.” While recent budget cuts have largely spared the Coast Guard, the massive cuts in discretionary spending in the budget resolution presented to the House and due on the floor Friday do not portend full funding of the Coast Guard’s asset replacement program. The Coast Guard’s Acquisition, Construction, and Improvements Account average was $1.38 billion from fiscal year 2007 through the request for 2012. However, the Coast Guard’s projected funding for fiscal years 2013 through 2016 average $1.9 billion annually – a $520 million annual increase. This level greatly exceeds any historical levels and will likely need to be adjusted down. We are past the time when we can discuss cuts in the abstract – these proposed cuts have consequences. Can the Coast Guard respond to oil and other spills, can it respond to a tsunami on the West Coast, and can it perform all of the missions we place upon it? I look forward to working with Admiral Currier and the Coast Guard in assessing the real impacts of the possible cuts. The subcommittee should also not overlook the critical importance of other ongoing Coast Guard acquisition programs such as Rescue 21, the Service’s sustainment programs for legacy assets that remain in service, and several unbudgeted acquisition needs, including the need for polar icebreakers. It remains paramount that the subcommittee, GAO and other observers continue to shine a light on the Coast Guard as we move forward to ensure that its acquisition programs are mission-driven, cost-effective, and accountable. Mr. Chairman, the Coast Guard and the men and women who serve need the capabilities to address the myriad demands we place upon them. But we need to get this right. History demonstrates that the Coast Guard will be relying on the assets it purchases today for many more years than anticipated. We also need to be practical and recognize that a course correction of this magnitude simply does not happen overnight. ###
04.12.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent the following letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers after receiving reports that work on the Skagit River General Investigation Study (Skagit GI) had been ordered to stop. “People in my district are counting on this study to be completed so we can begin constructing the critical flood control projects that will help them protect their homes, farms and businesses from floods. To abruptly halt forward progress on the Skagit G.I. without exhausting every option available is irresponsible to the mission of protecting lives and property,” said Rep. Larsen. The full text of the letter follows: Dear General: I have serious concern about reports that work on the Skagit River General Investigation Study (Skagit G.I.) has been stopped. To abruptly halt forward progress on the Skagit G.I. without exhausting every option available is irresponsible to the mission of protecting lives and property. The Skagit G.I. has taken over thirteen years and has endured numerous scheduled completion date revisions to get to the point where it is today. The Skagit community cannot afford another delay. For more than a decade the people of the Skagit Valley have looked to the Corps to provide the basis on which they can begin completing flood control projects that will increase safety for those living on the banks of the Skagit River. The Corps itself has recognized how important this GI study is, the Skagit G.I. has simply taken too long. Through the Reset Initiative the Corps gave the Skagit G.I. a needed higher priority level to urge along its completion in a fiscally responsible manner. Skagit County, the local sponsor of the investigation, has invested their own money and pledged to work with the Corps toward timely completion. It would be a disservice to the residents of the Skagit Valley to let the Skagit G.I. deviate from its schedule one more time. Less than $4 million remains to complete the investigation. Stopping the Skagit G.I. will waste the $6.263 million of federal funds already invested, not including the local community sponsor’s match. With every new flood comes a threat to the community’s of Skagit County. The sense of urgency behind the Skagit G.I. has never diminished and the County’s intention to complete the study was reiterated in a letter signed in January of this year. It is time to complete the Skagit G.I. On behalf of the residents of Skagit County, I demand that every program is evaluated to find savings in order to fund and complete the Skagit G.I. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress
04.08.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration announcement of a final rule on vessel traffic and Southern Resident killer whales:“After having met with many groups in Anacortes and the San Juans about the impacts of the proposed No-Go Zone, I am pleased that NOAA announced it has removed the zone from the final rule. Additionally, I am pleased that NOAA will release a final rule with enough time for residents, outdoor enthusiasts, researchers, and the local tourism industry to continue to plan their summer schedules with confidence.”“As the summer season begins, I will be closely monitoring the implementation of the new buffer zone and discussing its effect with the local community. This is a significant change to existing rules, and it should protect of our environment and endangered species while maintaining appropriate access and opportunities for those wishing to experience it. ”The final rule, to be issued by NOAA in the coming days, establishes a 200-yard buffer around any killer whale and prohibits vessels from intercepting a whale or positioning in the whale’s path. This doubles the current buffer distance restriction. The rules will apply to all motor boats, sail boats and kayaks, in Washington’s inland waters.###
04.07.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting against a short-term budget bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. “The time to pass a long-term budget that will help grow the economy and fuel private sector job creation is now. Instead, the Majority Party is pushing forward with a partisan budget that undermines the ongoing negotiations between the House, Senate and White House to avoid a government shutdown. “We need to work together to reach a budget compromise that both sides can agree on, not fund the government one week at a time. “Not only does this bill do nothing to help achieve a long-term solution to fund government operations for the rest of this fiscal year, but it also makes severe cuts that will harm our economic growth and job creation efforts, including critical help for families, $2 billion for investments in infrastructure projects that support good private sector jobs, and research programs that are boosting U.S. innovation and competitiveness. “The majority’s short-term budget bill also includes ideological policy requirements that have no place in this kind of legislation, including a prohibition of DC funds to cover abortion in the District of Columbia. Why is that in the budget? I don’t know.”###
04.06.2011	Rep. Rick Larsen released the following statement tonight in response to reports that the Lummi Nation and Whatcom County reached a deal to continue to delay termination of Lummi Island ferry service so they can continue to negotiate. “I am pleased that the Lummi Nation and Whatcom County returned to the table to negotiate a deal regarding the Lummi Ferry, and to see that the deadline for termination of Lummi Island ferry service has been extended to May 15,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “I am confident that they will continue to work together to reach a long-term solution.”###
04.06.2011	Full Audio of Telephone Town Hall Washington, D.C. — Tonight, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) hosted a telephone town hall meeting with nearly 5,500 constituents from the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state to discuss jobs, the economy and health care. “I want to thank everyone who took time out of their evening to join tonight’s call. It was a great chance for me to have a conversation with folks back home about important local and national issues,” said Rep. Larsen. “One of my top goals in Congress is to increase opportunities for me to communicate with my constituents about the work I am doing to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us in the Pacific Northwest through investments in skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation and infrastructure, all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.” Rep. Larsen hosted tonight’s call as part of an effort to increase opportunities for constituents to interact with him while Congress is in session. Close to 5,500 constituents called in to ask Larsen questions about jobs, the economy and the federal budget. “It’s clear from listening to folks in Northwest Washington that people are still very concerned about the state of the economy and what Congress is doing to help get people back to work,” said Rep. Larsen. “It was great to have the opportunity to talk with constituents about the work I am doing to fuel private sector job growth and economic growth in the Pacific Northwest.” ###
04.05.2011	Today, US Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after Republican leaders in the U.S. House of Representatives rolled out their budget proposal for 2012. “Budgets are not about dollars and cents, they’re about how we can keep our economy moving to grow jobs and help middle class families.“House Republicans need a wake up call to realize building a budget is not just for achieving some arbitrary figure in cuts; they need to factor in the seniors, students and veterans that rely on critical initiatives in the federal budget. “Instead of laying the foundation for future economic growth, this budget proposal takes the first steps to undermine economic growth, end Medicare and halt job creation efforts. Medicare“Although I give credit to Republicans for putting something on the table when it comes to Medicare, I can’t give them credit for what they actually put on the table. This Medicare proposal gets an A for effort and an F for content. “The Republican plan makes Medicare a voucher program for people under 55 years old when they turn 65. “In other words, it eliminates Medicare in 10 years. “I support the reforms we have already made to Medicare that saves taxpayer money while improving care to seniors without cutting care to seniors. The new Republican plan cuts costs and eventually Medicare.Deficits and Debt“The Federal government must get its fiscal house in order. Congress must bring down the $1.65 trillion deficit; yet you cannot have credibility on cutting the deficit and controlling the debt unless the economy is growing. This budget proposal jeopardizes the economic growth we need to tackle our debt and deficit problem. A Responsible Budget“We need a responsible budget that protects the economic progress we have made and lays a foundation for future economic growth. This year I have voted with Republicans and Democrats to cut nearly $50 billion from the President's 2011 budget and I will continue to work with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to identify further areas we can responsibly cut as we build our budget for 2012.“It is critical that we protect the initiatives that help our long-term economic recovery: Pell Grants that help students afford college tuition and vital infrastructure projects that keep our economy moving and fuel private sector job growth. If we make many of the cuts proposed in this budget, we harm our ability to grow the economy and create private sector jobs and make it more difficult – if not impossible – to cut the debt and deficit.“Slashing tuition help for students, extending the 2001 Tax Cuts for the top two percent of income earners and eliminating the guaranteed benefit of Medicare for seniors is not how we’re going to get our economy back on track and get people back to work.“Earlier this year I set a goal for myself to implement a forward thinking plan for long term economic growth that works for us in the Pacific Northwest through investments in skills and knowledge of people, support for innovation, and infrastructure all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world. I will keep working to achieve this goal by pushing for a responsible budget that will grow our economy and fuel private sector job growth by making these key investments.”###
04.05.2011	Today, US Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after testifying to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit about his priorities for transportation initiatives that will create jobs in the Pacific Northwest.“Last week, I spoke with local private sector engineers who said that the single biggest action Congress could take to save and create jobs in their industry would be to pass a 6 year transportation reauthorization bill. “In the Pacific Northwest, transportation investment means jobs. “In my district, this means making key investments in: the state ferry system, the largest in the country; highway safety to protect people on dangerous highways like Highway 2; and freight mobility to create jobs in the Pacific Northwest. “I cannot emphasize enough how we need to consolidate federal transportation programs as first proposed two years ago. Currently there are 108 separate federal surface transportation programs administered by five separate federal agencies.“The current program structure is fragmented and stove-piped. There is little relation between our national transportation goals and this complicated decision-making process.“These measures will not fill the funding gap, contrary to Republican claims – but they are necessary reforms important for the future of transportation funding.”The full text of Larsen’s remarks, as prepared for delivery, follows:REP. RICK LARSENTESTIMONY BEFORE THE HIGHWAYS AND TRANSIT SUBCOMMITTEE“POLICY PROPOSALS FROM MEMBERS OF CONGRESS TO REFORM THE NATION’S SURFACE TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS”Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to testify before the subcommittee on my policy proposals for the next surface transportation bill.I look forward to working with you and Ranking Member DeFazio to invest in our nation’s transportation infrastructure and create jobs as we rewrite the federal surface transportation legislation.As we write the next surface transportation bill, it is clear that our nation needs a significant investment in our transportation infrastructure to create private sector construction jobs; invest in the repair and maintenance of highways, roads, bridges and transit; and set the foundation for future economic growth.In the Pacific Northwest, transportation investment means jobs.Local private sector engineers were in my office last week and said that the single biggest action Congress could take to save and create jobs in their industry would be to pass a 6 year transportation reauthorization bill.The Committee Chair has indicated that we should not expect a bill that calls for more funding than the Highway Trust Fund can sustain – in other words, a bill that contains less funding than SAFETEA-LU.I support innovative financing mechanisms, but I will be clear: innovative financing mechanisms are supplements to the Highway Trust Fund, not substitutes. It is hard to see how innovative financing bridges the gap between the current Trust Fund levels and the amount that most transportation experts believe we need to simply maintain the transportation system we have.If this committee is going to write a $250 billion bill, we should all be clear on what that means: states and localities will do less with less. Fewer private sector construction jobs will be created, fewer highways, roads, and buses will be maintained, and even fewer new capacity-building projects will be built.On the issue of the consolidation, I support consolidating federal transportation programs as Democrats first proposed in the 2009 Surface Transportation Authorization Act and streamlining the federal permitting process. These measures will not fill the funding gap – but they are simply necessary reforms important for the future of transportation funding.Currently there are 108 separate federal surface transportation programs administered by five separate federal agencies. The current program structure is fragmented and stove-piped. There is little relation between our national transportation goals and this complicated decision-making process.Then-Chairman Oberstar’s Surface Transportation Authorization Act proposed consolidating or terminating more than 75 programs. It would have transformed the current structure into a performance-based framework designed to achieve specific national objectives.The GAO recently concurred with Oberstar’s approach in their March 2011 report on Opportunities to Reduce Potential Duplication in Government Programs, Save Tax Dollars, and Enhance Revenue. The GAO argues that “this fragmented approach impedes effective decision-making and limits the ability of decision makers to devise comprehensive solutions to complex challenges.” They conclude that “a fundamental re-examination and reform of the nation’s surface transportation policies is needed.” I urge the Committee to heed the GAO’s advice.Next, I’d like to discuss the top transportation priorities for my district in the reauthorization bill: ferries, highway safety, and freight mobility.Meeting these priorities will mean jobs in the Pacific Northwest.Ferries are top priority for my district and Washington state. Washington State Ferries is the largest ferry system in the United States and carries over 25 million riders annually. Ferries are integral to the transportation infrastructure of Washington State: they are an extension of the highway system and provide public transportation to help thousands of my constituents get to work and to return home.I encourage the Subcommittee to improve and expand the overall federal investment in ferry transportation.Next month, Senator Murray and I will introduce the United States Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2011. Our legislation would make a robust investment in the federal ferryboat program. It would also mandate that half of those funds be distributed by formula to help ensure that significant funding is directed to the largest and most important public ferry systems. Half of the program funds would continue to be distributed on a discretionary basis, which would help initiate and expand ferry services throughout the country.These changes will significantly improve the current program and provide our nation’s ferry systems with the resources they need to improve public safety, meet growing demand and create jobs to keep our economy moving.Highway safety is a top priority for my district. My district includes US Highway 2, a stretch of highway where there have been over 50 fatal accidents since 1999.I support the inclusion of a robust safety program in the next surface transportation bill that could direct more resources toward particularly dangerous highway corridors.Freight mobility is a priority for my district and Washington State. In 2007, Washington State freight systems supported over 1 million jobs in freight-dependent industry sectors. Washington State’s transportation infrastructure – including our northern border crossings; Interstate 5; Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific rail lines; the Ports of Everett, Seattle and Tacoma; and intermodal connectors – is critical to supporting the movement of freight.Investment in freight mobility is important because the more freight we move, the more jobs we create.I support the creation and funding of a national freight transportation program that will work with states and local governments to invest in highway, rail and port projects that eliminate chokepoints and increase efficiency. Since a program should be built around existing freight corridors, leverage private participation, and encourage active coordination among states, MPOs and localities.Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to present my policy requests for the next surface transportation authorization. I look forward to continuing to work with you and the rest of the Subcommittee to invest in our nation’s transportation infrastructure to create jobs.###
04.01.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting against a budget bill in the US House of Representatives. Larsen voted against the Government Prevention Shutdown Act of 2011 because the bill violates the constitutional provision of passing the Senate and being signed by the President before becoming a law. Larsen did vote to cut off pay for Members of Congress in the event of a government shutdown. “Today, the new majority is doing something so blatantly unconstitutional, it’s laughable: they are trying to pass a budget bill into law without being voted on by the Senate or signed by the President. “My advice to the Republican Leadership is to reread their copies of the Constitution. Article 1, Section 7, Clause 2 which states ‘Every bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a law, be presented to the President of the United States…’ should be particularly helpful.“Or, if they can’t find a copy of the Constitution, ‘Schoolhouse Rock’ provides some helpful information about how a bill becomes a law. I suggest they check out the video before trying to make any more laws without the Senate and the President.”###
03.30.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement for Members’ Day for the House Budget Committee. Members’ Day provides Members of Congress with an opportunity to testify before the House Budget Committee regarding Members’ priorities in relation to the federal budget. Larsen submitted remarks that included his concern that budget cuts may devastate the 8,000 students in the 2nd District of Washington who rely on critical help from Pell Grants to afford college tuition.“The Pell Grant program has a profound impact on students, universities, and on the economic vitality of our country. In the midst of university cuts to vital student services and unstable increases in tuition, Western Washington University students are finding themselves unable to prioritize their educational experiences or continue their education at all,” said Iris Maute-Gibson, Legislative Liaison for the Association Students of Western Washington University. “I am pleased that Rep. Larsen is fighting to maintain Pell Grant funding to help dedicated Western Washington University students and guarantee economic growth engine for our nation.”“We should be telling young adults "America will invest in you," but the Republican budget cuts delay and may end the dream of higher education for many. In my district, over 8,000 students received Pell Grants that helped them attain the higher education and career training they need to secure good jobs after graduation,” said Rep. Larsen.The full text of Larsen’s remarks follows:Budget Committee Members’ Day RemarksWednesday, March 30th 2011Thank you Mister Chairman and Members of the House Budget Committee for providing me with the opportunity to voice my concerns regarding the federal budget.I am working to find solutions to get the economy back on track and fuel job growth. This means making investments in local infrastructure that creates private sector jobs, supporting research that promotes innovation and building our manufacturing base to grow jobs through exports-all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.But the majority’s budget proposals in the 112th Congress take the first steps to undermine these efforts to grow our economy and create jobs. These cuts are putting local jobs, law enforcement and help for hardworking families on the chopping block.That is why; as Congress continues to move forward making reckless cuts that we stand together to protect those programs that help our long-term economic recovery.If we cut these programs, we harm our ability to grow the economy and create jobs and make it more difficult – if not impossible – to cut the debt and deficit.I agree that the Federal government must get its fiscal house in order and bring down the $1.5 trillion deficit.However, these budget proposals make reckless cuts into the investments necessary for economic growth.We need a responsible budget that protects the economic progress we have made and lays a foundation for future economic growth.I will continue to work with colleagues to identify areas we can responsibility cut. In fact, during this Congress I have supported nearly $50 billion in responsible budget cuts.However, we cannot have credibility on reducing the deficit or controlling the debt unless our economy is growing.And, unfortunately, the cuts proposed by the Majority would have a devastating effect on local programs and our economy.Among the programs slashed by the majority’s budget are Pell Grants—need based student aid that helps many low-income families send their children to college. We should be telling young adults "America will invest in you," but the Republican budget cuts delay and may end the dream of higher education for many. In my district, over 8,000 students received Pell Grants that helped them attain the higher education and career training they need to secure good jobs after graduation.Unfortunately, Pell Grant funding is facing a funding shortfall. The recent spending bill passed by the House – that I opposed -- would cut this year’s maximum Pell grant by $845.Again, I strongly support efforts to reduce the deficit and cut the debt.However, we will not be able to reduce our deficit unless we continue to grow our economy and the proposed cuts are aimed at precisely the programs we are going to need for future economic growth.I have also made a commitment not to support efforts to balance the budget on the backs of those most in need in our communities.As a Member of Congress, and one who is committed to growing the economy and cutting the deficit, I have hard choices to make.The Majority continues to bring proposals to the floor that cut programs that are critical to our communities and our economic recovery.I will continue to partner with my Congressional colleagues to identify cuts we can make.But, my first priority is to support those programs that help small businesses create jobs and unless we in Congress do that first we will not be able to form a long-term plan to cut the deficit.Another area of the budget where we must put the necessary resources is the global non-proliferation program.Under the National Nuclear Security Administration, our efforts to secure and dispose of loose nuclear materials and nuclear weapons is a paramount national security priority.Ensuring that our efforts toward the President’s goal of securing loose materials by 2012 is critical.The Global Threat Reduction Initiative – which is already seeing delays due to the current fiscal year’s uncertain funding levels – identifies and supports efforts by foreign governments to secure material.GTRI faces delayed shipments of highly enriched uranium from nations like Belarus, Poland, Uzbekistan and Hungary.The longer we allow these materials to stay out there, the more we put our allies, our troops and our nation at risk.I greatly hope that this national security priority is one that the committee acts on judiciously as it decides where to decrease funding.###
03.29.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) offered an amendment to help members of the armed forces and gold star recipients afford to stay in their homes after Republicans brought a bill to the floor that will terminate the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), a critical lifeline to homeowners who are struggling to keep their homes. HAMP currently helps 30,000 families afford to keep their homes every month and 600,000 American families are still in their homes because of this effort. Larsen’s amendment would have preserved this program for active military and gold star families. “We can all agree that we owe our men and women in uniform a tremendous debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice. “While defending our country, servicemembers should not be afraid that their families will lose the roof over their heads. “But that’s the very situation a Navy sailor found himself last year as part of Operation Enduring Freedom.7,000 miles from home in Afghanistan there was little he could do to help his spouse balance the stress of raising two children, work, and household expenses. To top it off their variable-rate mortgage was about to jump to almost $2,300 a month. This family was able to find relief in the Home Affordable Modification Program. They applied for a trial modification under HAMP and began making reduced payments. After a few months their modification became permanent and reduced their monthly payment by almost $400. “I am disappointed the House let partisan ideology get in the way of ensuring the men and women who fight and die in our wars are able to keep their homes. ###
03.17.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), voted against H.R. 1076, legislation that would slash funding for National Public Radio (NPR) and other public radio programming. “I voted against these cuts that will hit PBS, NPR and other public radio broadcasting especially hard because these cuts are misguided attempts to stifle quality sources of information and entertainment,” said Rep. Larsen. “Our local public television (KCTS) and radio stations (KUOW and KPLU, as well as other local public radio stations) are valuable regional assets that deserve our support. I will continue to support public radio and public broadcasting.”
03.15.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement after voting against H.J. Res. 48, a short-term Continuing Resolution to fund government operations through April 8th. “It is past time for the White House and Congress to come together and create a bipartisan long-term budget that will foster economic growth and job creation while tackling our debt and deficit. “We can not continue to ignore our growing debt and deficit problem by passing these short-term spending band-aids every two weeks. “The time to have a bipartisan conversation about government spending and our exploding debt and deficit problem is now; not in another three weeks, or three weeks after that, but now. ###
03.15.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, co-led a hearing to examine the United States response to piracy. Last month, 4 Americans, including a couple from Seattle, were killed by Somali captors while on vacation.“Today’s pirate is no Jack Sparrow,” said Rep. Larsen. “The statistics are startling. The New York Times reported in late February that more than 50 vessels were currently captive ranging from Thai fishing trawlers to European supertankers, with more than 800 hostages. These 800 hostages represent mariners and seafarers that are only doing their jobs. It is time for the international community to stop this injustice.” “U.S. and international efforts to combat piracy have resulted in a mixed bag of success. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), prosecution of alleged pirates remains logistically difficult, the pirates have greatly expanded their area of attacks, there has been a steady increase in the number of attacks, and there are more ransoms being paid at increasing rates. This rise of piracy in the region puts mariners in danger and is a disruptive threat to world shipping,” Rep. Larsen concluded. The full text of Rep. Larsen’s Opening Statement Follows: Rep. Rick Larsen Opening Statement Hearing Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation “Assuring the Freedom of Americans on the High Seas: The United States Response to Piracy” March 15, 2011 Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for calling today's hearing. Piracy, particularly off the Somalia coast, is a disruptive threat to world shipping. Tragically, just last month, piracy also became deadly for Jean and Scott Adam of Marina del Rey, California, and their friends, Phyllis Macay and Bob Riggle of Seattle, Washington. I extend my sympathies to their families. These four individuals posed a threat to no one. They were not mariners involved in international trade. The Adams were living their life-long dream. Ms. Macay and Mr. Riggle were friends joining in the adventure. While the circumstances of their deaths are still being investigated, we do know that they were killed by their Somali captors while their release was being negotiated. But for these pirates, these four U.S. citizens would be alive and well today. Today’s pirate is no Jack Sparrow. Although piracy has been a threat to seafaring nations for thousands of years, the emergence of aggressive and persistent attacks off the Horn of Africa is especially concerning. The killing of the four hostages aboard the Quest certainly increased the attention of the international community on piracy – and the international community has increased its focus on piracy. The statistics are startling. The New York Times reported in late February that more than 50 vessels were currently captive ranging from Thai fishing trawlers to European supertankers, with more than 800 hostages. These 800 hostages represent mariners and seafarers that are only doing their jobs. Once captured, these hostages can be held in deplorable conditions for months before release. It is time for the international community to stop this injustice. The Gulf of Aden and the adjoining Indian Ocean constitute a critical shipping corridor. GAO’s September report on piracy states that over 33,000 ships pass through the Gulf of Aden annually. This includes tanker ships moving 10 to 15 percent of world petroleum shipments. For vessels headed west, the alternative route is around the tip of Africa and adds 4,900 nautical miles to the transit. The rise of piracy in the region puts mariners in danger and poses an economic burden on ocean carriers and shipping companies. In fact, according to a Chatham House report, insurance premiums in the London insurance market for ships traveling through the Gulf rose tenfold in 2008. Fortunately, U.S. insurance rates have remained stable due to U.S. insurers not yet having to pay claims. Several factors have contributed to the frequency of pirate attacks. A larger number of high-value targets passing through the Gulf, global proliferation of the small arms trade, and most significantly, persistent civil violence, lawlessness, and economic dislocation in Somalia. Any comprehensive international approach to combating piracy must address the current political situation in Somalia, it must be truly international, and it must be a solution that will be address piracy around the world. Somalia does not have a functioning government. With pirates having a virtually unlimited ability to operate from Somalia, piracy cannot be eliminated solely from the sea. I am particularly interested to hear what the State Department witness will say on this subject. Last week, Bloomberg reported that China and Russia are leading a new effort at the United Nations to curb the threat of piracy off the coast of Somalia and defeat al-Qaeda-linked terrorists fighting to seize control of that nation. According to the report, Russia has circulated a draft resolution that would commit the UN Security Council to “urgently” begin talks on creation of three courts for piracy cases. The measure also would urge construction of two prisons for convicted pirates, and demand that all nations enact laws to criminalize piracy. The international community has stepped up efforts to combat piracy. Combined Task Force 151, the multi-national effort joined by the U.S, the European Union Operation ATALANTA, NATO, which the U.S. also supports, and independent states are patrolling the area and providing greater protection to ships traveling through the Gulf. The International Maritime Bureau's Piracy Reporting Center and MARAD have helped inform the maritime community about piracy and how to implement best practices for ships to evade and defend themselves from pirate attacks. I look forward to discussing these international efforts with our witnesses. GAO’s report from last September discusses several challenges and describes a mixed bag of success. Ø Prosecution of alleged pirates remains logistically difficult, although I note that on February 16, the pirate associated with the attack on the Maersk Alabama was sentenced to 33 years by a New York district judge. Ø The pirates have greatly expanded their area of attacks to an area as large as the lower 48 States. Ø There has been a steady increase in the number of attacks, even as the rate of success declines. Ø The number of hostages being held is increasing. Ø There are more ransoms being paid at increasing amounts. These issues raise important questions for our panel. Are the efforts of the U.S. and the international community succeeding or failing? Are the rules of engagement changing? In light of the recent killings, is transit in the area more or less dangerous? When it comes to piracy in the 21st century, there is no X that marks the spot to point us in the right direction. But, there are several ways that U.S. policymakers can help combat piracy: Ø Encourage the international commercial maritime industry to adopt best practices; Ø Continue advances in the use of defensive technologies; Ø Help coastal states in pirate-prone areas boost their coastal monitoring and interdiction capabilities; and, Ø Provide resources to the Coast Guard and MARAD so they can continue to advise the industry on how to strengthen its own security. Mr. Chairman, I thank you again for holding this hearing. I look forward to discussing these issues with the panel, and assessing how government and non-government entities can increase security and decrease opportunities for piracy, and help the maritime community navigate this serious issue. ###
03.10.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting to end the FHA Refinance Program to reduce the deficit and focus attention on foreclosure assistance programs that are more successful. This program was authorized to use $8 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) but has only 245 loan applications and only endorsed 44 loans. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that the program will cost $175 million and not use the full authority.“While I support helping hardworking families who are facing foreclosure keep their homes, it is clear that this particular program was underutilized and not working,” said Rep. Larsen. “With only 44 loans closed as of last month, this program is not helping enough homeowners afford their mortgages. If we are going to be serious about tackling our nation’s debt and deficit problem, we need to cut spending from programs that are not working grow our economy, help middle class families or create jobs.” Constituents facing foreclosure should contact Rep. Larsen’s office for assistance.###
03.09.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), the Co-Chair of the bipartisan US-China Working Group, released the following statement after President Obama made an official announcement that he is nominating Commerce Secretary Gary Locke to serve as ambassador to China.“Gary is an outstanding nominee to serve as ambassador to China. As Co-Chair of the US-China Working Group, I have enjoyed partnering with Gary to address the many critical economic and trade relationships between the US and China.“Washington state is a close trading partner with China and our local businesses will benefit from Gary’s expertise with helping small and medium sized businesses increase their exports to create jobs here at home. ###
03.08.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to Paula Hammond, Secretary of the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), advocating for WSDOT to prioritize high-speed rail projects in the Everett-north corridor. Last month, Larsen sent a letter to Ray LaHood, Secretary of the US Department of Transportation, advocating for Washington state to receive high-speed rail funds rejected by the state of Florida.“The train service from Everett to the Canadian border keeps our local economy moving and is popular with commuters and tourists in the region,” said Rep. Larsen. “There are several ready-to-go projects in my district that will create good jobs and provide a much-needed boost to our local economy.”Text of the full letter follows:March 8, 2011Paula HammondSecretary of TransportationWashington State Department of TransportationDear Secretary Hammond:Congratulations on completing the stakeholder agreement and cooperative agreement that will allow Washington State to begin investing in our high-speed rail system and creating jobs in our local communities. I write to request that the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) prioritize some of your high-speed rail investments in the Everett-north corridor. The service from Everett to the Canadian border is critical to our local communities and a key component of economic growth.The Everett-north corridor contains several WSDOT proposed projects, including the Blaine-Swift Customs Facility Siding, Cascades Corridor Reliability Upgrades-North, Everett-Storage Track, Bellingham Main Line Relocation, and Everett-Curve Realignment. These projects have strong potential for improving on-time performance, enhancing safety and reliability, and creating jobs in our local communities. Although I realize the regional importance of the Seattle south corridor, the Everett-north corridor is also popular with commuters and tourists and has several highly rated, ready-to-go projects.Thank you for your attention to this request. I stand ready to assist you as WSDOT moves forward with high-speed rail investment and applies for additional high-speed rail funds from the Federal government.Sincerely, Rick LarsenMember of Congress###
03.08.2011	Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Co-Chair of the bipartisan US-China Working Group, released the following statement based on news reports that US Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke will be the new Ambassador to China."If these reports are true, I applaud the Administration for selecting Gary Locke as our country's new Ambassador to China. As Secretary of Commerce, he has been at the forefront of tackling the tough trade issues we have with China, mainly as an advocate of opening China's emerging consumer market to US goods and services. "As much focus as there will be on Gary's own upbringing as the son of a Chinese immigrant who became a US citizen and served in the US Army in World War II, he is an ideal choice because he will be representing the US values of freedom and democracy to a country that sorely lacks both."As Co-Chair of the US-China Working Group, I look forward to collaborating with Gary on the many important economic, political and cultural relationships between our country and China."###
03.04.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement after EADS announced that they will not protest the Air Force’s decision to award Boeing with the tanker contract.“Last week, the Air Force pronounced Boeing the ‘clear winner’ in the tanker competition. Today’s news that EADS will not protest this decision confirms that the Airforce made the right decision and Boeing will build the best tanker for our military at the best value for taxpayers.“This announcement paves the way for Boeing to start putting thousands of people to work building the highest quality tanker for our service members and our national security.“This contract will have an immediate impact on the NW economy, protecting and supporting 11,000 manufacturing jobs in WA specifically for the tanker – 9,800 jobs in the Second District alone. This doesn’t count the thousands of jobs created by the multiplying effects of the Tanker among the other small businesses and manufacturers around the region.”###
03.03.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to help small businesses by repealing new 1099 requirements established by the Affordable Care Act. “I have heard from many small business owners in my district that the 1099 reporting requirement in the new health care law will force them to spend their much-needed time and energy on burdensome paperwork,” said Rep. Larsen. “In this tough economy, the last thing business owners need is more paperwork when they need to be focused on how to grow their business. I voted to repeal this requirement and cut red tape so small business owners can put their energy toward expanding their business and creating jobs in the community.”“The 1099 reporting requirement will consume far too much of the time I spend running my business. While I do not agree with the way the House of Representatives is paying for this bill, it is important that this legislation moves forward and is paid for so small business owners like myself can focus our energy on growing our business instead of filling out paperwork for the IRS,” said Chuck Robinson, owner of Village Books in Bellingham. “I support Representative Larsen’s vote on this bill and appreciate the work he is doing to protect local small businesses.”###
03.03.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised President Obama and Mexican President Calderon for announcing that they have reached a pathway forward on a long haul cross-border Mexican trucking program. This announcement is in response to the ongoing issue with the tariffs placed on American agricultural and other products by the Government of Mexico following the halt of a pilot program in March 2009 requiring safety inspections of trucks entering the United States from Mexico.“These tariffs on agricultural products are hurting Washington state farmers and costing much-needed jobs in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Larsen. “I applaud President Obama and President Calderon for reaching a pathway forward on this critical issue.”“I look forward to seeing this plan when it is released later this month. It is past time to end these tariffs so U.S. farmers can finally transport their produce across the border and spur job growth and economic activity.”Larsen has worked for years to see these tariffs removed. He sent a letter to the President in April 2009 with a number of other Members of Congress asking for a solution to the Mexican tariffs and led letters to the Department of Transportation and the United States Trade Representative. He also recently raised the issue at a meeting with the Mexican Ambassador. ###
03.02.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, praised an announcement from the Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration that they are collaborating to apply cargo preference requirements to the DOE’s renewable energy loan guarantee program. Cargo preference requirements allow for U.S. flag ocean carriers, hiring U.S. crews, to bid on at least 50 percent of cargoes shipped as part of a federally-financed project. “This announcement is great news for the U.S. shipping industry. It is estimated that this change could mean $250-500 million in additional business for U.S. cargo preference shippers. This means more good paying jobs in the maritime industry and a boost to the economic competitiveness of U.S. shippers and mariners,” said Rep. Larsen. ###
03.01.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), voted in favor of a short-term Continuing Resolution cuts spending by $4 billion while continuing to fund the government through March 18th.“The bottom line is: we can not afford a government shutdown that will deprive hardworking families, seniors and veterans of the critical services they count on to get by from day to day. I supported this short-term budget fix so members of Congress can work together to reach a bipartisan agreement for how to implement a forward-thinking plan that invests in our economic growth and helps tackle our debt and deficit.” ###
03.01.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, countered claims from the majority party that the maritime industry can do more with less at a hearing on “A Review of the Administration's Fiscal Year 2012 Budget Requests for the U.S. Coast Guard, Federal Maritime Commission, and Federal Maritime Administration; Finding Ways To Do More with Less.”"The practical impacts of this budget request is that maritime will do less with less. Less shipbuilding, slower recapitalization of Coast Guard assets, and less investment into the critical maritime infrastructure that keeps our economy moving."Maritime transportation remains a critical component of our national economy contributing over $10 billion annually and generating nearly 270,000 jobs. I am concerned that this budget will underinvest in the maritime infrastructure that can help the U.S. economy expand and flourish. “One main exception is the Federal Maritime Commission where its modest increase will allow it to strengthen efforts to assure fair trade and shipping which will create jobs in the US.”###
02.28.2011	Rep. Rick Larsen released the following statement after SSA Marine announced it is submitting key documents to move forward with the proposed Gateway Pacific Terminal project. “Exports are a surefire way to get our economy moving and grow good jobs in the community. “I am pleased to see a Washington-based company making a major private investment in our nation’s export infrastructure. The Gateway Pacific Terminal will make US companies more competitive in the global market and create hundreds of local family wage jobs. “A project of this magnitude is required to go through a thorough permitting process. I am optimistic that this project will be a model for how job creation and the environment can exist in harmony and how groups can work together to facilitate responsible industrial development.” ###
02.28.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen, a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, applauded the completion of the "stakeholder agreement" that will allow Washington state to begin work on high-speed rail projects in Northwest Washington. Last night, the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway and Amtrak signed the "stakeholder agreement" and WSDOT signed the "cooperative agreement," which will allow the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to obligate Washington state's $590 million in high-speed rail grant funds. The remaining $161 million will be obligated by Wednesday. "This agreement will allow Washington state to begin investing in our high-speed rail system, which will grow the economy by providing good local jobs and helping commerce and passengers travel more efficiently throughout the region," said Rep. Larsen. "I congratulate WSDOT, BNSF and Amtrak for their hard work in completing the stakeholder agreement, which will allow federal grant dollars to immediately go to work creating jobs in our local communities."###
02.24.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), made the following statement after the Air Force announced its decision to award Boeing with the contract to replace the aerial refueling tanker:“The Air Force’s announcement confirms what I’ve known for a long time: Northwest aerospace workers are the best in the world and Boeing will build an outstanding tanker for our military.“Boeing’s victory in the tanker competition will provide a much-needed boost to our local economy and put thousands of folks to work building the highest quality tanker for our servicemembers and our national security.”###
02.22.2011	Rep Rick Larsen released the following statement after an earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand. Larsen traveled to New Zealand this week as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation to promote the trade and security relationships between the US and New Zealand."The 6.3 earthquake that hit the city of Christchurch on top of the 7.1 earthquake of September is a devastating tragedy for New Zealand."There are reports of fatalities and people trapped in buildings. The earthquake toppled the city's symbol, the spire of the Christchurch cathedral. There is a lot of other physical damage in the city center. "I ask everyone to keep the people of Christchurch in your thoughts and prayers."###
02.17.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, commended the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) for reducing regulatory burdens and bringing cost savings to small businesses involved with the export of U.S. products. Yesterday, the FMC released a final rule that will relieve over 3,000 licensed customs brokers and freight forwarders from the costs and burdens of publishing in tariffs the rates they charge for cargo shipments. According to the FMC, this rule change could save each of these small businesses up to $200,000 per year. “Helping our small businesses compete in the global marketplace is key to a long term economic growth that will support good jobs well into the future,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Federal Maritime Commission’s rule change will help our small businesses export their products overseas so they can grow and hire new workers.” ###
02.17.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, called on Ray LaHood, Secretary of Transportation, to give Washington state an opportunity to receive additional funding for high-speed rail projects that was rejected by the state of Florida. The Administration previously announced that it plans to reallocate any high-speed rail funds that are rejected by states.“There are ready-to-go high speed rail projects in Everett, Blaine and Bellingham that will immediately create good jobs for folks in the community and provide a much-needed boost to our local economy,” said Rep. Larsen. “I am fighting for Washington state to get high-speed rail dollars that were rejected by other states because this is a surefire way to grow good jobs and keep the economy moving in the Pacific Northwest.” The text of the letter follows: February 17, 2011 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary of Transportation U.S. Department of Transportation Dear Secretary LaHood: Thank you for granting Washington state an additional $161 million in redistributed high-speed rail funds. I encourage you to once again give Washington state strong consideration for the high-speed rail funds rejected by the State of Florida. My home state of Washington is well-positioned to use these funds on ready-to-go projects that will create jobs. There is strong public support for high-speed rail in Washington state. The Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor has experienced record-breaking ridership this year. Amtrak Cascades ridership was up 13% last year compared to the previous year. The state of Washington is committed to investing in the corridor: Washington state ranks second in the nation in the amount of direct state subsidy that supports Amtrak service. Washington state has invested $137 million in capital rail improvements since 1999 to improve infrastructure, safety and stations. Washington state is well positioned to use any returned high-speed rail funds. The state has 14 projects valued at $533.5 million which were submitted to and vetted by FRA in their original high-speed rail application that were not funded. Three of these projects are located in my district and could create much-needed jobs in our local communities. They include the Blaine-Swift Customs Facility Siding ($5.1 million), Bellingham Main Line Relocation ($45.1 million) and Everett Curve Realignment ($78.3 million). I urge you to give Washington state strong consideration for any returned funds and stand ready to work with you to reprogram these funds. Thank you for your attention to my request. Sincerely,Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
02.16.2011	Will Save Jobs, Help Fuel Economic GrowthToday, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), and local leaders from the 2nd District pushed to protect vital investments in infrastructure and small business from cuts in the majority party’s budget proposal to fund the government under a continuing resolution for the remainder of the fiscal year. They emphasized that cutting these investments will undermine economic growth and job creation efforts in Northwest Washington.Under this budget proposal, in Washington state over $880 million would be slashed from transportation and infrastructure projects, resulting in an estimated job loss of over 30,000 jobs. “Investing in transportation and infrastructure is a surefire way to inject dollars into our local economy and put people to work improving the roads, bridges and railways in our region,” said Rep. Larsen. “This industry has already been devastated by the economic downturn; we can not afford to make any more cuts in construction projects that will keep our economy moving and provide good jobs for folks in the community.”“There is no better way to jumpstart the economy than making investments in critical transportation and infrastructure funding, which support private sector economic expansion. The construction sector has experienced a catastrophic unemployment rate, and putting construction workers back to work at solid family wage jobs will have a tremendous ripple effect on the economy not just for the short term, but well into the future,” said Liz Evans of the Associated General Contractors of Washington. During consideration of funding legislation, Rep. Larsen voted against an attempt to completely defund the Small Business Innovation Research program.“Our small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” said Rep. Larsen. “In these tough economic times, we need to be providing small business owners with the tools and resources they need to grow and hire new workers-not slashing the vital help that allows them to compete and thrive in the global marketplace.”“The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program is critically important to my small business. The “I” in SBIR is a key aspect in my opinion. To compete globally, U.S. companies must continually innovate; most small businesses like mine can’t afford to invest in research without a defined application and market. The SBIR program provides an efficient way to develop new technologies that have immediate impact on the needs of U.S. government agencies, as well as commercial customers. Easily 50% of my firm’s sales to government and commercial (domestic and foreign) entities stem from advances that were made possible by the SBIR program,” said Travis Ayers, owner of Luxel Corporation in Friday Harbor. ###
02.15.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement emphasizing the need to protect funding that will help the US secure loose nuclear materials in order to destroy them. The continuing resolution proposes a 24 percent reduction to the President’s 2011 budget request for National Nuclear Security Administration’s (NNSA) Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation programs. If these cuts go into effect, the United States will be unable to secure and remove massive quantities of highly enriched uranium from countries that are vulnerable to terrorists.“We can not afford to cut these critical nuclear nonproliferation programs that are increasing our national security and keeping nuclear materials out of the hands of terrorists and rogue states.“This is not just about securing loose nuclear materials and destroying them, this is about securing our security. These cuts will undermine our ability to keep our nation and the world a safer place.”###
02.15.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), teamed up with several community leaders from the 2nd District to highlight how the majority party’s budget proposal to fund the government under a continuing resolution for the remainder of the fiscal year – will hurt families and undermine economic growth and job creation efforts in Northwest Washington.“I am working to find solutions to get the economy back on track and fuel job growth in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Larsen “This means making investments in local infrastructure that creates private sector jobs, supporting research that promotes innovation and building our manufacturing base to grow jobs through exports-all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.”“But the majority’s budget proposal takes the first steps to undermine these efforts to grow our economy and create jobs. These cuts are putting local jobs, law enforcement and help for hardworking families on the chopping block.” Among the programs slashed by this budget, is critical student aid that helps many local families send their children to college. Presidents from two area colleges echoed Larsen’s concerns about the harm in cutting Pell Grants:“We should be telling young adults "America will invest in you," but the Republican budget cuts delay and may end the dream of higher education for many. In the 2nd District, 8,264 students received Pell Grants that helped them attain the higher education and career training they need to secure good jobs after graduation,” said Rep. Larsen. "At Everett Community College, more than 1,600 students used Pell Grants to help pay for college last Fall. Proposed cuts to the Pell Grant program would make it even harder for the financially neediest students in our community to start or stay in college. Our region's economy is struggling to recover, and this is the wrong time to cut back on funding for education and job training needed to put people to work," said Dr. David Beyer, Everett Community College President.“Drastic cutting of Pell Grant funding would be detrimental to thousands of students who are relying on this financial assistance in order to pursue training and education that they need to take the next step in life. Whatcom has experienced an increase of more than 300% in Pell Grant awards since 2007-08 with half of the 2010-11 academic year remaining. So far this year, almost $7 million has been allocated. For many students, this funding is the only hope they have to access the higher education system, facilitating their dreams of entering a career or baccalaureate institution that will in turn affect the economy of our local community, Washington State and our nation,” said Dr. Kathi Hiyane-Brown, President of Whatcom Community College in Bellingham.The budget will also hurt Youthbuild, a program in Snohomish County that helps young adults who have dropped out of school obtain high school diplomas or GED certificates along wil the career training they need to get a job in construction. Through the program, the youth involved also help construct safe and affordable housing in the community.“These budget cuts will destroy Youthbuild, a locally driven, taxpayer funded effort that connects young adults with skilled training in construction,” said Rep. Larsen. “In addition to providing valuable services to youth and addressing the need for housing in our community, the loss of the program would result in the loss of one staff position at the Council, two positions at Housing Hope, our private non-profit housing partner, and course sections with associated instructional staff at two local community colleges,” said Sue Ambler, CEO of the Workforce Development Council of Snohomish County.This budget also puts local law enforcement and border security on the chopping block. Sheriffs from Whatcom and Snohomish County joined Larsen in emphasizing the danger in cutting the resources that they depend on to do their jobs keeping local communities safe.“We can not afford to shortchange our local law enforcement as they work to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Larsen.“The struggling economy has slowed neither the pace nor necessity of technology in crime fighting. Cutting COPS dollars would send us back in time to fight crime with antiquated tools and methods. We simply can’t keep up with the criminals – let alone get ahead of them – if we can’t keep up with advances in technology,” said Snohomish County Sheriff Lovick. “We can’t afford to lose ground on our efforts to stop the spread of drugs in our community. The COPS grants we receive go directly to buying the equipment we need to identify and pursue drug trafficking organizations, as well as to investigating the manufacturing and distribution of methamphetamines. We’re going after the people who are going after our children.”“Cutting Operation Stonegarden funds will deprive our local law enforcement agencies of the critical tools and resources they need to coordinate their efforts to secure the northern border,” said Rep. Larsen.“A report recently issued by the Congressional Government Accountability Office on northern border security highlighted significant risks and vulnerabilities. Our local communities are the first to be impacted by border-related crime and potentially affected by acts of terrorism. It is essential to the safety of Whatcom County and the nation that the federal government continues to support local programs necessitated by the presence of the international border,” said Bill Elfo, Whatcom County Sheriff. ###
02.14.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement announcing his vote against extending provisions of the Patriot Act.“As recently as last week, I voted to extend three provisions of the Patriot Act, but I can do so no longer. The failure of these provisions to pass last week has given me a bit more time to consider my position. The thing that has changed in the last week when I voted for the extension of the Patriot Act revisions is: Enough.Enough of extending these provisions without anything but what amounts to a pro forma debate about the balance between security and privacy;Enough of the delay in developing an appropriate Congressional oversight mechanism of the Patriot Act implementation;Enough of the extension of the business records provision that allows warrants for everything from what books you check out of the library to the books you buy.“It is still possible that I could vote for a Patriot Act reauthorization in the future, but it will depend upon what it looks like.“So, yes. I did change my position from what it was last week. But this has been something I have contemplated for some time. It is always the right time to do the right thing.”###
02.14.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement slamming the majority party’s budget proposal to fund the government under a continuing resolution for the remainder of the fiscal year – a proposal that will undermine economic growth and job creation efforts in Northwest Washington. “Congress must focus on growing the economy by making investments in infrastructure that creates private sector jobs, supporting research that promotes innovation and building our manufacturing base to grow jobs through exports-all in order to maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world. “The Republican majority’s budget proposal undermines these efforts to grow our economy and create jobs. We cannot have credibility on reducing the deficit or controlling the debt unless our economy is growing. “We should be telling young adults "America will invest in you," but the Republican budget cuts delay and may end the dream of higher education for many. “We know innovation and research fuel economic growth, so why are Republicans cutting research into renewable energy and energy efficiency that could put money directly back into taxpayers' pockets? “Investing in infrastructure will create private sector jobs and keep our economy moving, but the Republicans plan to make drastic cuts to high speed rail investment that will diminish opportunities to build an Everett to Bellingham link and create good jobs in the community. “This budget proposal makes reckless cuts into the investments necessary for economic growth. We need a responsible budget that protects the economic progress we have made and lays a foundation for future economic growth that will support good jobs and get our debt and deficit under control.” ###
02.14.2011	Says NAS Whidbey Island Still Central Part of Navy MissionToday, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement on the Navy’s decision to make Jacksonville and Hawaii the first two homes of the initial P8-A squadrons.“Uniformed leadership of the Navy at the highest level has decided that Jacksonville and Hawaii will be the first two homes of the initial P8-A squadrons. It is still possible that NAS Whidbey Island will be home to P8-A squadrons in the future. “The US Navy leadership believes that it needs the P8-A squadrons as far forward in the Pacific as possible. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I appreciate the strategy behind this decision but I will demand the full justification behind it. “This was a difficult decision for the Navy. I am not happy about it. “Naval Air Station Whidbey Island is an ideal location for the Navy to send aircraft to as the men and women who are stationed on Whidbey Island enjoy a high quality of life, access to good training ranges, a low cost of living, and tremendous support from the surrounding community.“NAS Whidbey Island will remain critical to the U.S. Navy as the center of electronic attack, home of the Navy Growlers, as well as the potential future homes of P-8As and the replacement platform for the EP-3 squadrons.“Northwest Washington will continue to be an essential region for the US Navy as the Navy has committed to keeping a carrier in Everett, expanding the Growler program at Whidbey, and considering future opportunities for P8-A squadrons to come to NAS Whidbey.”###
02.11.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in opposition to letting critical Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) benefits expire tomorrow. House Republicans failed to act on legislation that would extend this program to help Americans who have lost their jobs due to increased imports.During the October 2009-September 2010 federal fiscal year, 5,329 Washington residents received Trade Act services – more than double the number from the previous year. Of them, 2,637 received job retraining. After receiving Trade Act services, some 74 percent of participants obtain new jobs. On average, their new jobs paid 85 percent of what they earned before being laid off.“It is a mistake to let the Trade Adjustment Assistance benefits expire. TAA is a critical program that has helped thousands of Washington residents receive the job training they need to find good employment after losing their jobs due to increased imports,” said Rep. Larsen. “TAA is a critical funding source for up-skilling dislocated workers who have lost their jobs to foreign influence. In the four counties we serve, 212 individuals benefitted from TAA funded services over the last two years,” said Gay Dubigk, Executive Director of the Northwest Workforce Council in Bellingham.###
02.11.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement in response to reports that President Hosni Mubarak resigned today and handed off power to the Egyptian military.“As President Mubarak steps down from power, the Egyptian government must show a respect for human rights and a clear path to democracy in Egypt. “While the Egyptian people are resolute in their belief that Egypt must move swiftly to a representative government, it is critical that protestors and government security forces show continued restraint and patience as this transition begins.“I am confident the United States will work with Egypt to ensure an orderly and peaceful transition of power that will support the economic and democratic aspirations of the Egyptian people.“I commend President Obama for his leadership in promoting a peaceful path forward while assuring the people of Egypt that the United States remains an ally.”###
02.11.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, co-led an oversight hearing to examine the recommendations from the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling. The Subcommittees received testimony about lessons learned from the spill from U.S. Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen (Ret.), former National Incident Commander for the BP spill, and members of the Commission: Dr. Donald F. Boesch and Terry D. Garcia. “Today’s hearing on the BP Oil Spill made it clear that our ability to implement the Commission’s recommendations for how to improve our oil spill prevention and response could be seriously jeopardized by the draconian and indiscriminate budgetary cuts that the Republicans are proposing,” said Larsen. “The devastation of the BP Oil Spill reinforced the need to ensure that our policies for offshore drilling are rigorous, safeguard workers, benefit the economy and protect the environment,” said Rep. Larsen. “Too many lives are at stake and too many jobs are at risk, for us to fail to move forward with implementing these recommendations.” The full text of Larsen’s opening statement follows: OPENING REMARKS OF U.S. REPRESENTATIVE RICK LARSEN (D-WA) Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Joint Hearing on “Improving Oil Spill Prevention and Response, Restoring Jobs, and Ensuring our Energy Security: Recommendations from the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling” February 11, 2011 Mr. Chairman, thank you for conducting this joint subcommittee hearing. I welcome the opportunity to discuss the recommendations of the National Commission on the BP Oil Spill. The message today is clear: undertaking deepwater drilling requires a deeper understanding of the risks that accompany the clear benefits of deepwater drilling. Now that we have these recommendations in hand, Congress should act to ensure that our policies for offshore drilling are rigorous, safeguard workers, benefit the economy and protect the environment. Too many lives are at stake, and too many jobs are at risk, for the Congress to fail to act. If we cannot tap our offshore resources in a way that protects lives and the environment, there will be pressure to restrict the use of those resources. That would be devastating to the maritime industry, the jobs they support, and our economy as a whole. We also need to provide Federal agencies with adequate resources to prevent another such tragedy from happening again, and to respond should we have to. I welcome Admiral Allen to the subcommittees today. I appreciated your willingness to serve the United States as commander of the response effort, even following your retirement. I look forward to hearing your observations and recommendations. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill was a major human and environmental disaster of potentially unprecedented proportions. As a representative from the Puget Sound, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I want to do everything possible to prevent an oil spills from any sources occurring in my area of the country and other areas of the country. The oil spill commission report clearly demonstrates that we have a long way to go to prevent similar disasters from occurring again. Unfortunately, Congress is proposing budget cuts into the muscle and bone of investments needed for economic growth and to protect our environment. If nothing else, the BP spill showed the need for a more robust public capacity to respond quickly and safely to oil spills. The public depends on federal agencies to ensure the safety of deepwater drilling and the safety of the men and women who work on those platforms. Diminishing this capacity through budget cuts is irresponsible, especially considering the Commission’s call for increased investment. Some of the voices in Washington, D.C. argue that we must reduce or eliminate regulatory burdens. Once again, the BP spill demonstrated that the oil and gas industry was subject to too little regulation, not too much. Improved regulation is necessary both in how BP implemented safety measures during drilling, and in ensuring effective, meaningful response plans once the spill occurred. No one is suggesting that we eliminate deepwater drilling off our coasts. Given what we now know about the risks of deepwater drilling, we should put the pieces in place to ensure the highest level of safety. The National Commission’s report revealed what many of us expected to learn about the Deepwater Horizon spill. First, the Federal government’s oversight of offshore oil and gas drilling was too lax. Second, that Federal agencies and the oil and gas industry were inadequately prepared to effectively stop, track, contain and clean up a spill of this magnitude. And third, we learned that the Jones Act — the law which protects and supports our domestic maritime industry — was absolutely no hindrance to the Federal government’s response to this environmental calamity. And as we will hear later, Admiral Allen concurs entirely with this finding. I proposed last year during the Committee’s May 19th hearing on the spill that the country take a step back to ensure that any future offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico lives up to claims of safety and reliability. If anything, the National Commission’s report only reaffirms my convictions, especially on the following points: Future offshore drilling must occur within a transparent and accountable legal framework that clearly assigns responsibility for any spills to the industry.Congress must act to raise the liability caps in the Oil Pollution Act. The Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund must be replenished, and the Fund’s fee structure revised to match the increased hazards of deep sea drilling.More investments must be made to develop field tested and government certified response and clean-up technologies that more than match the industry’s ability to drill in frontier areas. I look forward to evaluating the Commission’s recommendations and expect that our witnesses this morning will provide additional insights on these points, and more. When the EXXON VALDEZ ran aground on Bligh Reef in Alaska in 1989, Congress responded with the Oil Pollution Act. Now, 22 years later, the BP spill demonstrated the need to amend and strengthen that Act. I stand ready to work with Chairman LoBiondo and with Chairman Gibbs, with the ranking Democrat member, Congressman Rahall, with Mr. Bishop, and the other members of the Committee in shaping legislation to strengthen our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. Mr. Chairman, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill exposed the real risks and costs of energy production on the Outer Continental Shelf. We have before us the opportunity to make a necessary course correction in our production of offshore energy. I urge that we not let the current debate on the Federal budget or regulations deter us from making necessary investments to ensure that offshore drilling can be done safely, efficiently and with minimal harm to the environment. ###
02.10.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, submitted the following statement to the U.S. House of Representatives, criticizing the majority party for failing to propose a jobs plan that will help the economy and get people back to work. Instead, the Republicans are wasting taxpayer dollars and two days on the House floor on a vote instructing House committees to conduct oversight-a task they already perform.“My number one priority is growing the economy and creating jobs in the Pacific Northwest, but the new majority party seems to have a different agenda,” said Rep. Larsen. “It is past time for a jobs plan that will put people back to work and help build our economy.”“Of course oversight is important. In fact, the Democrats conducted 1,400 oversight hearings in the 110th Congress. But let’s not waste two days debating something we are already doing while the American people need us to focus on jobs and the economy.”“Investing in our crumbling roads, bridges, ports and railroads is a surefire way to keep our economy moving, create good jobs in our community, and maintain US economic leadership in the world,” said Rep. Larsen.The text of Larsen’s statement follows:Mr Speaker, I rise today to speak in support of investing in our nation’s infrastructure to create good, family-wage jobs.The American people want Congress to focus on growing jobs and getting the economy back on track.But the new majority has failed to present any plan to tackle our economic problems or create new jobs for Americans left struggling in the wake of the economic recession.Of course oversight is important. In fact, the Democrats conducted 1,400 oversight hearings in the 110th Congress. But let’s not waste two days debating something we are already doing while the American people need us to focus on jobs and the economy.We need a jobs plan now that will invest in our infrastructure so we can rebuild our nation’s crumbling roads, bridges, highways and railroads to keep our economy moving and create good jobs in our communities.As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am committed to improving and enhancing our infrastructure so we can expand our workforce and maintain US economic leadership in the world.I urge my colleagues to oppose this misguided effort and direct our attention instead to policies that will get our economy moving and create jobs.###
02.08.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, praised the Administration for announcing that it plans to invest in high-speed and intercity rail. Vice President Biden and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced a six year plan to invest $53 billion to help give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail within 25 years. Paula Hammond, Secretary of the Washington State Department of Transportation, was present for today’s announcement. “Investing in high-speed rail will put people to work, help keep our economy moving and increase the opportunity to enhance the rail link between Everett and Bellingham,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Pacific Northwest is a great example of how investing in our high-speed rail system can grow the economy by providing good local jobs and helping commerce and passengers travel more efficiently throughout the region. I look forward on working with the Administration to improve our rail system so we can expand our workforce and maintain U.S. economic leadership in the world.” ###
02.08.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) became a cosponsor of legislation that was introduced today to help small businesses by repealing new 1099 requirements established by the Affordable Care Act. The 1099 reporting requirement has proven to be burdensome for many small businesses. “The 1099 reporting requirement in the new health care law is a burdensome requirement that is forcing small business owners to do paperwork instead of providing affordable health care to their employees,” said Rep. Larsen. “I am working to repeal this requirement to cut red tape for small businesses so they can focus on growing and creating new jobs in the community.” ###
01.31.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in reaction to reports on the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) ruling on whether Boeing received illegal subsidies to fund aircraft construction. “Today the WTO handed Airbus a full plate of lemons, and now their spin machine is trying to turn it into lemonade. “But Airbus can’t hide from the facts: Today’s WTO ruling rejected most of Europe’s claims, finding that Boeing received less than $2.6 billion in illegal aid. The WTO already found the European Union guilty of giving Airbus nearly $20 billion in illegal subsidies. The EU is trying to make a mountain out of today’s molehill of a ruling. “As the Defense Department moves forward with the tanker competition, it cannot ignore the fact that Airbus has fueled its bid with billions of dollars in illegal subsidies from the European government. A fair, open and transparent competition must take into account the unfair competitive advantage that Airbus tanker received from these massive subsidies. “I will continue working to make sure that Washington state aerospace workers can compete for the tanker contract and new business around the world on a level playing field.” ###
01.30.2011	Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement regarding the ongoing protests in Egypt."Although the situation in Egypt is fluid, what is constant is the United States' belief in democracy and human rights. I sincerely hope for an outcome in Egypt that shows respect for these universal values. "Demonstrators and government forces must show restraint despite the incidents of violence resulting in looting and some deaths this weekend. "Ultimately, the United States should support a peaceful outcome that advances the economic and democratic aspirations of the Egyptian people."The State Department is advising U.S. citizens in Egypt to remain in their residences or hotels until the situation stabilizes. If constituents need assistance, the Embassy duty officer is available to U.S. citizens for emergencies at +20 1 2797-3300 during evening and weekend hours and the American Citizens Services Section can be reached at +20 1 2797-2301 during business hours, Sunday to Thursday from 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. and at consularcairoacs@state.gov. If constituents need further help, they should contact Larsen's Everett or Bellingham office.###
01.26.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted against eliminating the Presidential Election Campaign Fund.“At a time when unemployment is too high and middle class families are still hurting from the economic recession, Americans want Congress to be focused on creating jobs and getting the economy moving again.“Instead of working to reduce unemployment and get the economy back on track, my colleagues in Congress want to take power away from the public and give corporations and special interests more influence in presidential elections and party conventions.“Congress needs to enact meaningful campaign finance reform that will stop the flow of secret, unlimited, undisclosed money into campaigns, not open up the flood gates to special interest dollars in our presidential elections and conventions. I support restoring transparency and accountability to our electoral process so voters can follow the money and know who is behind political advertisements.”###
01.25.2011	U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement slamming the Republican Budget-less Resolution.“The budget proposal that the Republicans are bringing to the floor today consists of a one paragraph statement that does not outline one spending cut or any specific numbers.“The only cut that can be produced from this single sheet of paper is a paper cut.“Republicans are hiding their draconian spending cuts from the American people. If they have spending cuts to put on the table, let the American people see them. “The American people deserve to know that these arbitrary cuts could jeopardize the tuition aid that helps families afford to send their kids to college. Last year more than 8,200 low-income students received over $28 million in Pell Grant funding to attend college in Northwest Washington. At a time when enrollment in colleges and universities in the 2nd district is at an all-time high, the majority’s proposal could slash Pell Grant funding by as much as $1000 per student. “The majority needs to stop manufacturing phony cuts and focus on helping the economy manufacture jobs.###
01.24.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement about what he hopes the President will include in tomorrow night’s State of the Union address.“Mainstream economists on both sides of the aisle agree that the actions of Congress and the Administration helped to rescue the economy and create private sector jobs in the two years since President Obama took office.“But the economy has grown by inches when we need to see it grow by miles. There are still too many Americans out of work and too many families struggling to make ends meet. Tomorrow night, the President must tell the nation what he plans to do to get our economy back on track and put people back to work in this country.“If the President wants to build our workforce, help the middle class and keep America at the forefront of the global economy, then he needs to make a strong commitment to grow our manufacturing base, invest in our nation’s infrastructure and focus on helping our small businesses grow and create jobs.“We need to help our small and medium sized manufacturers access the global marketplace so they can grow and create good jobs. The President must address how we can help connect manufacturers with the tools and resources they need so they can ship their products-not their jobs-overseas.“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and we need to make sure they have the tools and resources they need to grow in today’s tough economy. It is critical that the President prioritizes helping small businesses access the credit they need to expand and hire. “The President must emphasize the need to make key investments in our roads, bridges and highways to improve our infrastructure and create good jobs in our communities. Our vibrant water ports, railroads, highways and airports keep our economy moving and support good jobs in the region.”###
01.20.2011	Larsen Elected to Senior Leadership Position on Important Coast Guard and Maritime SubcommitteeWill Focus Work on Jobs and Trade in the Pacific Northwest U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will be named Ranking Member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Rep. Larsen will be the most senior Democratic member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, which oversees the Coast Guard and the maritime industry. “I am honored to have been selected by my colleagues to be the Ranking Member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee,” said Rep. Larsen. “The work of the CGMT Subcommittee is critical to jobs and the economy in Washington state and the Second District. Washington state is home to the country’s largest ferry system, some of our nation’s busiest ports and the most trade focused economy in the nation. Washington state’s maritime industries employ over 9,000 people and countless more depend on our maritime transportation system in their daily lives.” As Ranking Member, Rep. Larsen will work to create jobs in Northwest Washington by promoting and protecting the maritime industry. The maritime industry is a central part of the economy of the 2nd District: it directly employs over 1,500 people and supports more than 4,000 additional jobs in the 2nd District. He will work with local ship and boat building and repair companies to create local jobs and help our economy recover. Rep. Larsen is especially honored to oversee the operations of the U.S. Coast Guard. “The men and women of the Coast Guard play a critical role in protecting our homeland, saving lives at sea and ensuring the safety of maritime commerce,” said Rep. Larsen. “In the Puget Sound, the Coast Guard ensures that ships navigate safely through the Sound and protect the flow of commerce by securing our ports. They also inspect our Washington State Ferries and countless commercial and recreational vessels that Northwest Washington residents use every day.” As Ranking Member, Rep. Larsen will work with the Coast Guard to ensure they have the resources and authorities necessary to protect our ports and waterways. As the service works to modernize and re-capitalize their fleet, Rep. Larsen will oversee the implementation of the Coast Guard’s budget to ensure that the service spends taxpayer dollars efficiently and effectively. “I look forward to working with Chairman LoBiondo in a constructive and bipartisan manner to support the Coast Guard and promote maritime industry jobs,” said Rep. Larsen. Finally, Rep. Larsen intends to use his leadership positions on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee and the Seapower Subcommittee on the House Armed Services Committee to ensure the needs of servicemen and women and their families, as well as promoting Northwest Washington Navy bases and shipyards. Many members of the maritime industry in Washington state extended their support for Larsen’s appointment to this position. “Congressman Larsen has been a consistent advocate for maritime commerce and the family-wage jobs it creates,” said Port of Seattle CEO Tay Yoshitani. “We are seeing signs of economic recovery in Seattle, and under his leadership, I’m confident that growth will continue.” “This is great news for the Puget Sound maritime community,” said Todd Pacific Shipyards CEO Steve Welch, “Rick has been a key ally on Coast Guard and Navy issues throughout his time in Congress. He has always shown his ability to understand and communicate issues of significant complexity. His prior work in these areas shows this new post is richly deserved. We look forward to his leadership on issues so important to our national security, economy, and to our way of life in and around Puget Sound.” “Few members of Congress have worked so forcefully over the course of their careers to protect the jobs of American maritime workers,” says Capt. Michael Murray, Vice President of MM&P’s United Inland Group, which is based in Seattle. “Rick has consistently been a fighter for the U.S.-flag maritime industry and a strong advocate of policies and programs that help ensure American maritime jobs are not outsourced to foreign-flagged ships.” “In my experience Rick has been the quintessential public servant to his district, and this gives him yet another opportunity to demonstrate that role,” Port of Everett Commission President Mark Wolken said. “Rick understands the critical role ports play in job creation and economic vitality in the Puget Sound region. His commitment to infrastructure investment and port security measures allows us to support more than 31,000 jobs in Snohomish County.” “Expanding jobs and businesses on the waterfront is one of the highest priorities for the Port of Bellingham,” said Port of Bellingham Executive Director Charlie Sheldon. “Whatcom County already has more than 2,000 maritime jobs and we believe Congressman Larsen’s leadership position on this committee will bring new focus to the issues that confront the Port and Whatcom County’s maritime industry. This will be essential as we work to attract new business and industry to the 220-acre Bellingham waterfront site.” “We would like to congratulate Rick Larsen on his being named the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation,” said Jim Dunlap, President of Dunlap Towing Company.“Dunlap Towing is a family owned business located in LaConner and Everett, Washington, operating throughout Puget Sound, U.S. West Coast, Alaska, and Hawaii. Rick has been a great partner to Dunlap Towing and the maritime industry in Puget sound as we work to create local jobs and expand our business. We look forward to working with Rick in his new leadership position to promote and protect the Northwest Washington maritime industry.” ###
01.20.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement about today’s meeting between Chinese President Hu’s and Members of Congressional Leadership. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group (USCWG)."I am pleased President Hu had the opportunity to meet with Members of Congress during his visit to the United States.“The US-China relationship is the most important bilateral relationship in the world and it’s critical President Hu hears from Members about those issues that are of particular importance to them.“The U.S and China play key roles in ensuring peace and stability in Asia. Both countries must continue to work to keep the Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. In particular, China must do all it can to ensure North Korea renounces its recent provocative actions and takes immediate steps to eliminate its nuclear weapons program.“Economically, the U.S. and China must continue to work together to improve access to the Chinese market for U.S. companies. At the top of the list is breaking the link between Chinese government procurement and domestic innovation. This puts U.S. companies at a disadvantage and unfairly tilts the playing field toward domestic Chinese companies. China must move forward on protecting intellectual property rights. Last year, the US software industry lost $8 billion as a result of China's lack of IPR protection, translating to as many as 60,000 U.S. jobs lost. Additionally, Congress will need to see continued appreciation in the value of the RMB. The Chinese currency has appreciated about 3 percent against the US dollar since June 19 – positive movement that must continue.“I look forward to continued dialogue between the US and China on these issues."###
01.19.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting against repeal of the new health care law.“Repealing the new health care law means repealing patients’ rights and ballooning our deficit by $230 billion by 2021, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. I voted against this costly repeal to protect affordable health coverage for hardworking families, small businesses and seniors in Northwest Washington. “The American people want the new Congress to focus on getting the economy to recover and helping people find jobs in this tough economy- not yanking much-needed health benefits from seniors, young adults and people with pre-existing conditions.“My number one issue is finding solutions for job growth that work in the Pacific Northwest- landing the Air Force re-fueling tanker contract to create thousands of jobs for folks at Boeing, helping our small and medium sized manufacturers export their goods overseas to create jobs here at home, and getting credit to the women and men who own businesses in Northwest Washington.”###
01.19.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group, applauded the announcement by the U.S. and Chinese governments of final government approval by China for the purchase of 200 Boeing jets, including 737s and 777s. China’s approval of these airline contracts will result in a $19 billion order from Boeing, which will support more than 100,000 jobs across the country at Boeing and thousands of their suppliers. Larsen attended the arrival ceremony of Chinese President Hu at the White House this morning and will be at a luncheon with President Hu at the State Department this afternoon.“China’s final approval decision to purchase 200 Boeing jets is great news for our region and the manufacturing workforce in Northwest Washington,” said Rep. Larsen. “This deal will mean jobs at the Boeing plant in Everett, jobs at the many aerospace suppliers in Northwest Washington, and a boost to the local economy.”“China is a vital trading partner for the United States, especially for aerospace-our nation’s largest export sector. China is projected to be Boeing’s largest commercial airplane customer over the next 20 years,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to maintain this economic relationship with China so it can continue to support good jobs and economic growth in Northwest Washington.” ###
01.19.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) highlighted the costs that repeal of the new health care law will have on families, small businesses, and seniors in Northwest Washington. A new report, released by the Committee on Energy and Commerce, details the impact that repeal will have in the 2nd Congressional District.“The Republican’s first order of business in this tough economy, is to repeal health care reform- which, instead of creating jobs or helping the economy recover, will actually add $230 billion to the deficit by 2021, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget office.“Repealing the new health care law will hurt families, small businesses and seniors in Northwest Washington.“Repealing the health care law means that insurance companies will still be able to discriminate against up to 331,000 individuals with pre-existing conditions in the 2nd District of Washington state, including up to 41,000 children in the region. This would include one of my constituents from Arlington, who suffers from severe mental illness. Her parents are saving $10,000 a year from the new health care reform law, but could lose that much-needed financial help if this law gets repealed.“Repealing the health care law means 2,400 young adults in the 2nd District will lose their insurance coverage they get through their parents’ plans. This would be devastating to the students at WWU and high schools across Northwest Washington who will be graduating this Spring and looking for work. Congress should be focused on helping make sure students have the tools they need to find a job, instead of giving them one more thing to worry about.“Repealing the health care law means over 10,000 seniors in the region will see the cost of their prescription drugs skyrocket and 110,000 seniors could be denied new preventative care benefits. Seniors need us to keep closing the donut hole so they can afford their Medicare prescriptions, not take away their much-needed benefits.”A full copy of the report on impact of repealing the health care law in the 2nd District can be found here.###
01.19.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to Frontier Communications, calling on them to offer a better alternative for customers in Northwest Washington that use their cable service. Frontier recently announced that it will alter the existing framework of its fiber-optic television service. Specifically, Frontier’s decision to offer its customers a choice between continuing with their current FIOS television service—with a rate increase of 46 percent or switching their cable television service to the satellite provider DirecTV.“Folks in Northwest Washington are concerned about the future of cable service offered through Frontier Communications- and rightly so. I am calling on Frontier to offer consumers better and more affordable options for cable service in the region,” said Rep. Larsen.The text of the letter follows:Dear Mr. Mason:I am writing to express concerns that I share with many of my constituents in Northwest Washington about Frontier’s plans for cable service in our region. The Everett Herald recently published an article, “Switch to a Dish or pay more, Frontier tells FIOS customers,” that highlights some of the problems that people in Northwest Washington have with Frontier’s announcement that it will alter the existing framework of its fiber-optic television service. Specifically, Frontier’s decision to offer its customers a choice between continuing with their current FIOS television service—with a rate increase of 46 percent or switching their cable television service to the satellite provider DirecTV.I am concerned with Frontier’s decision to substantially raise its cable television rates for its existing customers in the Pacific Northwest. Last September, Frontier Communications Chief Executive Maggie Wilderotter was quoted in The Oregonian newspaper stating that Frontier would distinguish itself from larger cable companies by holding down prices for its customers. I find it troubling that less than six months later Frontier is dramatically raising its cable television rates.Additionally, it is problematic that Frontier has not offered an adequate alternative to those customers who live in apartment complexes where the installation of satellite dishes is prohibited and therefore cannot take advantage of the option to switch their cable service to DirecTV.Thank you for your timely consideration of my concerns. I look forward to your response.Sincerely, Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd District###
01.18.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement about Chinese President Hu’s visit to the United States. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group (USCWG). "The US-China relationship is the most important bilateral relationship in the world. Both nation’s face a number of challenges and opportunities moving forward. It is critical that Congress, and the rest of the world, sees results during the summit between Chinese President Hu Jintao and President Obama, particularly regarding North Korea and economic issues.“The U.S and China play key roles in ensuring peace and stability in Asia. Both countries must continue to work to keep the Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. In particular, China must do all it can to ensure North Korea renounces its recent provocative actions and takes immediate steps to eliminate its nuclear weapons program.“Economically, the U.S. and China must continue to work together to improve access to the Chinese market for U.S. companies. At the top of the list is breaking the link between Chinese government procurement and domestic innovation. This puts U.S. companies at a disadvantage and unfairly tilts the playing field toward domestic Chinese companies. China must move forward on protecting intellectual property rights. Last year, the US software industry lost $8 billion as a result of China's lack of IPR protection, translating to as many as 60,000 U.S. jobs lost. Additionally, Congress will need to see continued appreciation in the value of the RMB. The Chinese currency has appreciated about 3 percent against the US dollar since June 19 – positive movement that must continue.“There is also great distrust within Congress of the Chinese PLA. Only through sustained and consistent military-to-military dialogue can this distrust be reduced. I am happy to see the resumption of the U.S. and China military – to-military relationship, and was pleased with Secretary Gates’ visit to China last week.“The U.S. is committed to our relationships in the Pacific region, and look forward to working with our Chinese counterparts and our allies in the region to ensure the principles of regional stability, freedom of navigation, respect for international law, and unimpeded commerce under lawful conditions are respected.###
01.17.2011	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) delivered the following remarks to celebrate Martin Luther King Day at the kickoff celebration and breakfast for the MLK Day of Service event sponsored by Whatcom’s Service Learning Program. Larsen then joined volunteers in a day of community service in Whatcom County.Remarks as prepared for delivery:Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. once stated that "The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy. The true neighbor will risk his position, his prestige and even his life for the welfare of others..."It is a fitting tribute to Representative Gabrielle Giffords, my good friend and colleague in Congress, that we are gathered here to celebrate Martin Luther King Day- a day to remember the life, legacy and teachings of Dr Martin Luther King Jr.-as we continue to pray for Gabby’s recovery and honor the victims of the unforgiveable tragedy in Arizona.Gabby Giffords is a dedicated public servant. She carries the values of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr-fairness, opportunity, and service-with her every day as she works to take care of her constituents and her community.Martin Luther King Day is a living holiday that gives all of us the chance to rededicate ourselves to practicing these same values to ensure that our nation is rich with opportunity and fairness.What does the Lord require? Do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with God.These words from the prophet Micah are as true today as they were when first spoken.They provide guidance for how we in Congress can lead by example for everyone in this country as we try to come to terms with the tragedy in Arizona.We can work with and for each other with justice, mercy and humility in our hearts.When Micah said these words, they were guidance. Today, they are a plea. Or, as the President said Wednesday night, “It is important to pause for a moment and make sure that we are talking with each other in a way that heals and not in way a way that wounds.”I know we can heed these words.As we keep all the victims of this tragedy in our prayers, we can also honor them by carrying the ideals of Martin Luther King, Jr with us every day of the year. I ask you, on this Martin Luther King Day, to join me in recommitting to honoring Dr King by dedicating ourselves to creating heaven on earth and a country that meets the expectations of our childrenToday, I will honor Dr. King by joining Northwest Youth Services to set up a shelter for homeless teens in Bellingham, WWU students to read books about civil rights, justice and service to local children, and working on the restoration site along Whatcom Creek.###
01.15.2011	Everett, WA – Today, Congressman Rick Larsen praised the Skagit County Board of Commissioners for sending a letter that commits the county to the Skagit River General Investigation (G.I.)Skagit County, the local sponsor of the Skagit River G.I., delivered a letter to Col. Anthony Wright on Friday, January 14, committing to the hydrology and hydraulics as updated by the U.S. Geological Survey in January of 2010. The hydrology and hydraulics is the data used in the G.I. to determine the total amount of water and its characteristics in a catastrophic 100-year flood event, an event that has a one percent chance of happening each year.“The commitment by the Board of Commissioners to continue with the existing data for the Skagit River G.I. shows their dedication to protecting the lives and livelihoods of the citizens of Skagit Valley,” said Rep. Larsen. “Their decision will ensure the study stays cost-effective and remains on schedule.” “The Skagit River G.I. will enable the design and implementation of flood control measures that local communities and their partners can have the confidence to move forward with,” said Larsen. “I applaud the efforts of the Skagit County Commissioners to complete the General Investigation in a timely manner that will help prevent flooding and reduce the risk to lives and property in the Skagit Valley,” said Rep. Larsen.###
01.12.2011	Washington, D.C. —Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will deliver the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to honor Representative Giffords and remember the victims of the tragic shooting in Arizona.“What does the Lord require? Do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with God.“These words from the prophet Micah are as true today as they were when first spoken.“They provide a guidance to how we in Congress can lead by example for everyone in this country as we try to come to terms with the tragedy in Arizona.“We can work with each other with justice, mercy and humility in our hearts.“When Micah said these words, they were guidance. Today, they are a plea. I know we can heed these words.“I ask that we keep all the victims of this tragedy in our prayers.” ###
01.08.2011	U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to news reports that Representative Gabrielle Giffords was shot while at a public event in Arizona."I am shocked to hear of this tragedy. This is an unforgivable, monstrous act that has no excuse. "My wife Tiia and I are keeping Representative Giffords and her family in our thoughts and prayers. I serve with Gabby on the House Armed Services Committee. She is a dedicated public servant." ###
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. —Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement about Alcoa Intalco’s plans to restart a portion of idled capacity at the Ferndale facility.“Intalco’s decision to make more aluminum at the Ferndale plant means jobs for folks in the region and economic growth in Whatcom County.“Alcoa's decision to make more aluminum in Ferndale, creating 60 direct and another 174 indirect jobs, justifies all of the hard work the workers, management, BPA and my office have done to keep these jobs here.“Knowing Intalco will be adding 60 new jobs at their Ferndale plant, with another 174 indirect jobs that will be created in the region, on the same day that we learn the unemployment rate dropped nearly half a point is doubly great news. “I have been working to keep Intalco running for more than ten years. The 500 jobs at the Ferndale plant are critical for workers in the area and economic activity in the region. “I am committed to seeing Intalco secure a long term contract for affordable power that will provide stability for workers and give the plant a reason to make major long-term investments.”###
01.06.2011	Washington, D.C. —Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) offered an amendment to ensure that the Republican bill to repeal the health care reform law will not eliminate health insurance coverage for young adults under 26 who are currently receiving coverage from their parent’s health insurance plan.“Over 20,000 young adults in Washington state are receiving affordable health insurance due to the new health care law,” said Rep. Larsen. “Losing this coverage would be devastating to students at Western Washington University and high schools across Northwest Washington who will be graduating this spring and looking for work. Congress should be focused on helping make sure students have the tools they need to find a job, instead of giving them one more thing to worry about in this tough economy.”###
01.06.2011	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood shared an initial concept document for a long haul cross-border Mexican trucking program with Congress and the government of Mexico. This program is an effort to seek a solution to the tariffs placed on American agricultural and other products by the Government of Mexico following the halt of a pilot program in March 2009 requiring safety inspections of trucks entering the United States from Mexico.“Farmers in my district and across the Pacific Northwest have been hit hard by the arbitrary and unnecessary tariffs imposed by the Mexican government.“I am frustrated that it has taken this long to start the process of finding a solution but I am pleased the Department of Transportation is making progress on this important issue. “Allowing U.S. farmers to have full market access into Mexico will spur job growth and economic activity.“I will continue working to see these tariffs lifted so farmers in the Pacific Northwest can transport their produce across the border and increase the income for their farms. Rep. Larsen sent a letter to the President in April 2009 with a number of other Members of Congress asking for a solution to the Mexican tariffs and recently met with the Ambassador from Mexico to discuss the issue.###
01.06.2011	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after meeting with Senator Lisa Brown, Majority Leader of the Washington State Senate. Yesterday, House Republicans ended a Congressional policy that helps states plan and pay for transportation projects. Funds for highways and transit will no longer be protected from annual budget cuts and could be used for other purposes. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, this could mean a loss of $121.7 million in transportation funding for Washington state.“Folks in Washington state want Congress to focus on getting the economy back on track and reducing unemployment,” said Rep. Larsen. “Instead of creating jobs, Republicans want to deny Washington state the transportation dollars it needs to fuel payrolls for the men and women who work hard to repair our roads, bridges and railroads.”“Today, I met with Senate Majority Leader Lisa Brown to discuss how critical this funding is for jobs and transportation projects in Washington state.”###
01.05.2011	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their Rules Package for the 112th Congress. This package establishes the rules that the U.S. House of Representatives will operate under for the 112th Congress. The Republican plan abolishes the “pay-as-you-go” principle, contains a special provision that allows Republicans to repeal the health care bill and ignore the trillion dollar increase in the deficit that will result, and exempts tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans from any budget enforcement restraint. “Day one of the 112th Congress and House Republicans are already violating their campaign promises and the needs of the American people. The set of rules they introduced today will explode our debt and deficit, kill our economic recovery and make the House of Representatives less transparent.“Like a lemming, the set of budget rules contained in this package will push us further off the deficit cliff. It breaks the promise so many of us made to reduce the deficit and control the debt by refusing to pay for tax cuts for the wealthiest of Americans and forces future generations to foot the bill. Over the cliff like a lemming; but I suppose there is nothing like a little lemming to go with tea.“Instead of transparency, this set of rules confers "King for a Day" status to one Member of the House of Representatives-allowing him to set the entire budget for the federal government without any public input.“The last time this country allowed that was never. Only before we were a country did a king set our budget. And now Republicans are set to give this authority again to one person, the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, a person I admire as a Member of Congress-as a King, not so much."And, in the next few days, the new House majority wants to repeal help for seniors on prescription drugs and take away consumer protections from families battling insurance problems. This effort will add $143 billion to the deficit over the next ten years.“This is all happening while we should be focusing on the economic recovery that is underway thanks to the tough decisions that the last Congress made. We need to redirect our focus to the economy and stop exploding the deficits and debt.”###
01.05.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, released the following statement after House Republicans announced their intent to end a Congressional policy that helps states plan and pay for transportation projects. Under the Republican plan, funds for highways and transit will no longer be protected from annual budget cuts and could be used for other purposes. According to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, this could mean a loss of $121.7 million in transportation funding for Washington state. “Washington state needs this transportation funding to repair our local roads and support good jobs for folks in the region,” said Rep. Larsen. “Congressional Republicans are playing political games with the livelihood of the men and women who work hard to improve the highways and infrastructure in Northwest Washington.”###
01.05.2011	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement, outlining his priorities for the 112th Congress. Today, Larsen will be sworn in for his sixth term in the U.S. House of Representatives. “My number one issue in the 112th Congress is getting the economy back on track and finding solutions that work in the Pacific Northwest. “Mainstream economists on both sides of the aisle agree that our actions during the last session of Congress helped to rescue the economy and create jobs. But, too many people are still out of work and more needs to be done to reduce unemployment and grow the economy. “Getting the economy moving in Northwest Washington means landing the tanker to create thousands of jobs for folks at Boeing, helping our small and medium sized manufacturers export their products so they can hire folks back home, and getting credit to the women and men who own businesses in Northwest Washington. “As a member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I am working to make key investments in our roads, bridges and highways that will improve our infrastructure and create jobs in our communities. These investments will be critical in the Pacific Northwest where our vibrant water ports, railroads, highways and airports keep our economy moving and support good jobs in the region. “Along with getting our economy moving again, Congress needs to prioritize controlling the nation’s debt and deficit. The statutory “pay-as-you-go” law that holds Congress accountable by requiring any spending increases to be offset with savings elsewhere in the budget is a critical tool to help control the debt and deficit. Any effort to undermine PAYGO is going to jeopardize our ability manage the debt and shrink the deficit. “As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I am committed to making sure our men and women in uniform have the tools they need to protect our country and their families are taken care of.“Congress needs to enact meaningful campaign finance reform that will stop the flow of secret, unlimited, undisclosed money into campaigns. I am working to restore transparency and accountability to our electoral process so voters can follow the money and know who is behind political advertisements.“I will defend the good we have done over the last two years: the job growth policies that are helping hardworking families pay their bills, holding Wall Street accountable to protect middle class families and small businesses, health care reform that helps seniors afford the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs and the New START Treaty that will make the world a safer place.” ###
01.04.2011	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Rep. Charles Boustany (LA-07), chairs of the Congressional U.S.-China Working Group, met with Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi to discuss the strategic issues facing the U.S. and China. After the meeting, Representative Larsen released the following statement:"Foreign Minister Yang, Representative Boustany and I had a very positive and constructive dialogue about the issues facing the U.S. and China. “Representative Boustany and I made it clear to the Foreign Minister that Congress must see results during the summit between Chinese President Hu Jintao and President Obama taking place later this month, particularly regarding North Korea and economic issues.“We discussed the need for peace and stability in Asia and the importance of keeping the Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. China must do all it can to ensure North Korea renounces its recent provocative actions and takes immediate steps to eliminate its nuclear weapons program.“Economically, the U.S. and China must continue to work together to improve access to the Chinese market for U.S. companies. At the top of the list is breaking the link between Chinese government procurement and domestic innovation. This puts U.S. companies at a disadvantage and unfairly tilts the playing field toward domestic Chinese companies. China must move forward on protecting intellectual property rights. Last year, the US software industry lost $8 billion as a result of China's lack of IPR protection, translating to as many as 60,000 U.S. jobs lost. Additionally, Congress will need to see continued appreciation in the value of the RMB. The Chinese currency has appreciated about 3 percent against the US dollar since June 19 – positive movement that must continue.“Rep. Boustany and I also communicated that there is also great distrust within Congress of the Chinese PLA. Only through sustained and consistent military-to-military dialogue can this distrust be reduced. I am happy to see the resumption of the U.S. and China military – to-military relationship, and look forward to Secretary Gates’ visit to China later this month.“The U.S. is committed to our relationships in the Pacific region, and look forward to working with our Chinese counterparts and our allies in the region to ensure the principles of regional stability, freedom of navigation, respect for international law, and unimpeded commerce under lawful conditions are respected."In my view, Foreign Minister Yang understands that Congress is watching this relationship very closely and is looking for results on many fronts."###
12.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to ratify the New START Treaty. The New START Treaty will require the United States and Russia, the two largest nuclear powers in the world, to reduce their stockpiles of of strategic nuclear warheads and launchers. It will put in place a strong regime so we can verify that the Russians are making nuclear reductions and conduct inspections of their nuclear facilities. The treaty will also allow the U.S. to maintain a safe and secure nuclear arsenal to maintain the defensive military capabilities which will are necessary for our national security. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services’ Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which oversees nuclear weapons for the United States.“I applaud the U.S. Senate for ratifying the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia. This treaty will strengthen national and global security.“Our military leaders have made it clear: this treaty is vital to our national security. In addition to reducing the nuclear arsenal of both the U.S. and Russia, it will allow U.S. inspectors to inspect nuclear sites to verify that Russia is complying.“I am pleased that enough members of the Senate were able to put politics aside and vote to ratify this treaty so we can begin to reduce our nuclear arsenal and make the world a safer place. This treaty brings us a step closer to ending the proliferation of nuclear weapons across the world. I look forward to continuing to work with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to achieve a vision of a world without nuclear weapons.###
12.21.2010	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Defense Level Playing Field Act (HR 6540), introduced by U.S. Representatives Jay Inslee (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02), to force the Department of Defense to take into account the billions of dollars in illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments when it awards the contract for the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. The measure passed on a bipartisan vote of 325 to 23.“Our national security and thousands of jobs are at stake,” said Rep. Larsen. “This bill will level the playing field for Boeing workers – the best aerospace workers in the world – and help protect American taxpayers from getting stuck with the bill for a tanker fueled by billions of dollars of illegal subsidies.”The language of the Defense Level Playing Field Act was adopted by the House of Representatives as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (HR 5136) in May of this year. However, the Senate has failed to act on this legislation, and the House was forced to consider a new defense bill that did not include any policy measures that could slow consideration of the bill in the Senate, including the Inslee-Larsen provision relating to tankers. This bill reinforces the support of the House of Representatives for considering the impact of illegal subsidies and gives the Senate another opportunity to act on this important legislation.###
12.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, praised the Senate for voting to repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. The U.S. House of Representatives passed repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell last week. It will now go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Today is a victory for our national security, our military readiness, and all men and women who want to serve our country.“The House and Senate have both finally agreed: all qualified men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line to fight for our country should be allowed to volunteer for our military.“I look forward to President Obama signing this into law, so the Pentagon can move forward with implementing repeal in a responsible way that will not threaten our military readiness.”###
12.17.2010	U.S. Representatives Jay Inslee (WA-01) and Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined with a bipartisan group of Members of Congress to introduce legislation that would force the Department of Defense to take into account the billions of dollars in illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments. “We are fighting a battle for American workers and Boeing families,” said Rep. Inslee. “Our amendment is, as it was when the House passed it earlier this year with 410 votes, about giving American workers the opportunity to compete on a level playing field to build the next generation of air refueling tanker. The Air Force should understand that our tax dollars will not be used to undercut American workers and reward illegal behavior.““The Air Force should not reward the illegal actions of European governments,” said Rep. Larsen. “If European taxpayers get a $35 billion tanker contract because they gave Airbus $5 billion in illegal subsidies, that’s a 700% return on investment, and that’s not fair to American taxpayers or American workers. This bill will give Boeing workers – the best aerospace workers in the world - a chance to compete for the tanker contract on a level playing field.”The Defense Level Playing Field Act (HR 6540) is identical to an amendment that was adopted to the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act by a bipartisan vote of 410-8. However, the Senate failed to act on their version of the defense bill earlier this year, and House and Senate leaders began negotiating a new defense bill that would be stripped of controversial provisions so it could pass the House and Senate quickly. During these negotiations, certain Senators objected to the Inslee-Larsen provision on tankers and it was removed from the bill.###
12.17.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2011. The NDAA passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote count of 341 to 48. “I supported the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen our national security and support service members and their families. This bill provides our service members with the equipment and resources they need to protect our country.” The House of Representatives passed a version of the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act in May, but the Senate was unable to pass its version of the legislation. The bill voted on today emerged from bipartisan negotiations with leaders in the House and Senate, who removed many controversial measures in an effort to help ensure a swift passage for the House and Senate. Unfortunately, members of the Senate objected to language supported by Rep. Larsen in the earlier version of the defense bill that would have forced the Department of Defense to take into account the illegal subsidies received by Airbus in the tanker competition, and this language was not included in the final bill.“I am disappointed that the defense bill does not include language forcing the Department of Defense to adjust the tanker competition to account for the fact that Airbus has received billions of dollars in illegal subsidies from European governments. I will keep fighting to level the playing field for Boeing by forcing the Department of Defense to take into account the unfair competitive advantage these illegal subsidies give to Airbus.”“Although this bill is not perfect, it includes critical priorities for our military. This bill invests in the tools needed to crack down on terrorism and keep the worst weapons out of the worst hands by increasing our efforts to secure loose nuclear materials around the world. This bill will take care of our service members and their families by raising military pay 1.4% and allowing TRICARE beneficiaries to keep their kids on their health care coverage until the age 26. And this bill includes acquisition reform provisions that will save taxpayers billions of dollars on defense purchases and get needed equipment to our troops faster.“I urge the Senate to act quickly to support this important legislation.”###
12.17.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for a tax cut package that will extend tax cuts for middle class Americans, help the unemployed, and extend a payroll tax holiday to spur job growth. “Our economy is still hurting. The Bush recession has lasted too long and too many folks are still struggling to make ends meet.“I share the anger of people who are calling my office, upset with the President and the fact that he caved to the wealthiest Americans. But I can’t let that anger get in the way of what this tax cut deal can do to grow the economy, create jobs and help the folks in my district who need this help.“Tonight, I put politics aside and voted to help grow the economy, create jobs and put money in the pockets of folks who need it to get by during these tough times.“If this was a decision between voting for the extension of middle class tax cuts and stopping the extension of the high end cuts, that would also be an easy decision. In fact, I have already taken that vote.“Unfortunately, that was not the choice I faced with this tax cut package. I voted for this package because it included unemployment benefits for folks still looking for work, tax credits to help families afford skyrocketing tuition, and a payroll tax that will spur hiring and send workers home with a higher paycheck. “The Center for American Progress estimates that the job-creating elements of this package will create 2.2 million jobs on top of what the economy will produce in 2011. “I know many share my concerns about the impact this package has on the debt and deficits. I have consistently said the number one step to shrink the deficit and control the debt is to grow the economy. If our economy is growing, it increases our capability to shrink the deficit and control the debt.“I was elected to look out for the middle class and help the economy grow and create jobs. This package has a lot to offer in that regard. So I am going to keep my commitment to growing the economy and the middle class in order to fight another day to get a more progressive tax structure.”###
12.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) met with Mexican Ambassador Arturo Sarukhan to discuss issues affecting the US-Mexico trade relationship. Specifically, Rep. Larsen raised the issue of market access for fresh Pacific Northwest potatoes in Mexico. Currently, fresh US potatoes are not allowed into Mexico beyond a 26-kilometer border region costing Pacific Northwest potato farmers needed income and jobs. "Today, I met with the Mexican Ambassador to advocate for Washington state potato growers and discuss the importance of full market access to the Mexican market for fresh Pacific Northwest potatoes. “Allowing U.S. fresh potatoes full market access into Mexico will spur economic growth and create jobs. U.S. potato growers estimate that providing full market access into Mexico could generate $100 million annually for the entire U.S. fresh potato industry."Washington state potatoes grown in the Columbia Basin, Yakima Valley, and in my district in Skagit Valley, are known world-wide for being premium quality potatoes. Mexico's continued limitation of Pacific Northwest potatoes into the Mexican market is arbitrary and unnecessary."I look forward to working with the Mexican government to remove this limitation to Pacific Northwest potato exports that would create jobs, and move the US-Mexico trading relationship forward,” said Rep. Larsen. “Unfortunately, Mexico has not fully implemented the provisions of the 2003 agreement and the Mexican domestic potato industry has continually blocked reasonable trade negotiations since the signing of this trade pact. The lack of forward movement on this issue has been exasperating for our Washington State potato growers who have seen this agreement decay. Currently 20 percent of all US fresh potato exports to Mexico originate from Washington State,” said Matt Harris, Director of Trade for the Washington State Potato Commission.###
12.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Yesterday, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Rep. Charles Boustany (LA-07), chairs of the Congressional U.S.-China Working Group, met with Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan to discuss the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) and other issues. Following the meeting, Representative Larsen released the following statement:"Vice Premier Wang, Representative Boustany and I had a very positive and constructive dialogue about the issues facing the U.S. and China. “Representative Boustany and I made it clear to the Vice Premier that Congress must see results from the JCCT and the summit between Chinese President Hu Jintao and President Obama taking place in January."At the top of the list is breaking the link between Chinese government procurement and domestic innovation. This puts U.S. companies at a disadvantage and unfairly tilts the playing field toward domestic Chinese companies. China must move forward on protecting intellectual property rights. Last year, the US software industry lost $8 billion as a result of China's lack of IPR protection, translating to as many as 60,000 U.S. jobs lost."China must move away from isolated one-time announcements of business deals and move toward a more consistent set of purchases of U.S. products that will reap long-term benefits for both countries.“We discussed the need for peace and stability in Asia and the importance of keeping the Korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons. China must do all it can to ensure North Korea renounces its recent provocative actions and takes immediate steps to eliminate its nuclear weapons program."In my view, Vice Premier Wang understands that Congress is watching this relationship very closely and is looking for results on many fronts."###
12.15.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted for standalone legislation to repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. The U.S. Senate has so far failed to advance a repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell as part of the defense bill so Larsen joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to introduce legislation that will repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell as a standalone measure. The legislation passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 250 to 175. “All qualified men and women who want to fight for our country should be able to volunteer for our military.“Don’t Ask Don’t Tell has forced many brave men and women to leave service, hurting our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan and our military readiness. We cannot afford to let this harmful policy remain in place at a time when we need the basic and advanced skills of all men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line for our country.“I urge the Senate to vote on this bill so we can allow the Pentagon to move forward with implementing the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell in a thoughtful and prepared way that will not risk our military readiness.###
12.15.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement about his position on the tax cut compromise. “I am mad at the President. In fact his tax cut compromise has me livid. I am as mad as those who have called me in the last week arguing against the deal. They say the President has caved in, has given too much to the wealthiest, and has broken his promises. I couldn't agree more. “If this choice was about politics, my decision would be easy: take my anger out on the President, feel better and please the progressive base in the district. And if this was a decision between voting for the extension of middle class tax cuts and stopping the extension of the high end cuts, that would also be an easy decision. In fact, I have already taken that vote.“But the choice I have to make now is about the economy. I have to decide if there is enough in the proposed package to help grow our economy to outweigh the inclusion of tax cut extensions for the wealthiest Americans and impact this will have on the debt.“I have concluded that the needs of the unemployed and the potential for economic growth do outweigh the costs associated with the package. That is why I will vote to support this package.“The economy is still hurting. The hangover from the Bush recession has been long. The unemployment rate is 9.8 percent and the 2011 economy is expected to grow by inches, not by the feet needed to drop unemployment much lower.“No legitimate economic theory can argue that extending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans will create jobs. I am not defending them. Remember that the Bush presidency created no new net jobs and left us with the Great Recession. “On the other hand, mainstream economists estimate that the job-stimulating parts of the package will add a half to a full percentage point to economic growth in the U.S.“The Center for American Progress estimates that those elements will create 2.2 million jobs on top of what the economy will produce in 2011. “The extension of unemployment benefits will help those hurting the most. Every dollar of unemployment benefit creates $1.61 in other economic activity. This is important for people in Snohomish County, which is suffering from the highest unemployment rate in my district. “A one-year, two percent cut in the payroll tax will create 720,000 jobs through 2012. This is important to families in Skagit County that work at small and medium sized manufacturers who, as a result, will be able to take more money home each time they get a paycheck.“The inclusion of tax credits for families paying for college is a step forward, especially if it is combined with the $5.7 billion investment in Pell Grants included in the 2011 budget. This will help thousands of students at Western Washington University and the community colleges in the area.“And the extension of a successful renewable energy tax credits is vital to creating thousands of good jobs in clean energy development and continuing the momentum to an economy based more on renewable energy.“I know many share my concerns about the impact this package has on the debt and deficits. I have consistently said the number one step to shrink the deficit and control the debt is to grow the economy. If our economy is growing, it increases our capability to shrink the deficit and control the debt.“So, looking past my anger with the President, there is a benefit to passing this package. It contains job generating elements that will boost the economy, reduce unemployment and build the foundation necessary to start shrinking the deficit and controlling debt growth in the long-term.“I don't like the tax cut extensions for high end earners or the estate tax compromise in this plan. But I will still support the bill for the greater good that it will do for our economy. And I welcome the fight that will take place when these issues resurface in 2012.“I believe the economy will be better and unemployment will be falling in 2012 and proponents for the rich will have to find other reasons to defend high end tax cuts. I am sure they will. And I will defend the middle class and small businesses in my district. “I was elected to look out for the middle class and help the economy grow and create jobs. This package has a lot to offer in that regard. So I am going to keep my commitment to growing the economy and the middle class in order to fight another day to get a more progressive tax structure.”###
12.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, cosponsored legislation to repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. The U.S. Senate has so far failed to advance a repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell as part of the defense bill so Larsen is joining colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to introduce legislation that will repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell as a standalone measure. Larsen said:“It is past time for us to move forward and repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. All qualified men and women who are willing to serve their country should be able to volunteer for the military.“I am cosponsoring legislation to repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell because I am disappointed in the Senate’s failure to move forward with ending this harmful policy. At a time when we have troops on the ground in Afghanistan and Iraq, we cannot afford inaction on this harmful policy.“Keeping Don’t Ask Don’t Tell intact will only harm our military readiness by depriving our troops of service members who are providing basic and advanced skills toward our nation's security. According to the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, more than 13,500 service members have been kicked out of the military since Don't Ask, Don't Tell took effect in 1993. In the last five years, the military has discharged nearly 800 mission-critical troops, including dozens of Arabic and Farsi linguists who were essential to military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.“Both the Pentagon and service members agree: the risk of repeal to overall military effectiveness is low. The Pentagon recently released a comprehensive and objective study that surveyed 400,000 service members. Over 90 percent of these men and women in the field said that working with a service member who they believed to be gay did not hurt the performance of their brigade or platoon.“The Pentagon’s report articulated that the military is ready and able to implement repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell in a thoughtful and prepared way that will not threaten our military readiness.“I call on my colleagues in Congress to move forward with repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell so we can allow all qualified men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line to serve their country.”### Click here to read PubliCola's coverage of my stance on repealing DADT.
12.14.2010	Moving Forward to Create JobsBy U.S. Congressman Rick LarsenCo-chair, US-China Working GroupNext month's summit between President Obama and Chinese President Hu Jintao will receive worldwide attention, and appropriately so. The U.S. - China relationship is likely the most important bilateral relationship in the world, impacting every state, county, and congressional district in the United States. Economically, the US and the People’s Republic of China (PRC) are joined at the hip. According to the US-China Business Council (that keeps up-to-date US-China trade data for every State and Congressional district in the country) Washington State exports to China grew nearly 400 percent over the last decade – compared to 41 percent to the rest of the world – allowing small and medium sized businesses to export their products into the Chinese market and not their jobs. China is Washington’s largest export market, and as the President continues to work toward doubling exports in the next five years as part of his National Export Initiative, China will be a key market for U.S. companies.But, many challenges face the trade relationship between the U.S. and China. Chinese government policy creates barriers to US companies’ ability to access the Chinese market. The most egregious example is the linkage between Chinese government procurement and innovation – known as indigenous innovation. Additionally, lack of intellectual property rights (IPR) protection in China, high barriers to investment, and the lack of transparency in Chinese government rule-making serve as barriers to US companies trying to enter or grow their exports in the Chinese market and unfairly tilt the playing field in the favor of Chinese domestic companies. The US-China Business Council’s “PRC Transparency Tracking” report of April 2010 found that, at best, roughly 50 percent of regulations and rules in China were posted for public comment, and few of those allowed the full 30 days for comment submissions.The U.S. government has an opportunity to level the playing field for U.S. businesses when the Joint Committee on Commerce and Trade (JCCT) meets this week. Led by Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ron Kirk on the U.S. side and Vice Premier Wang Qishan on the Chinese side, the JCCT is a forum for high-level dialogue on bilateral trade issues and a vehicle for promoting commercial relations between the U.S. and China. During the JCCT, it is necessary that U.S. representatives focus on removing barriers to U.S. exports into China. At the top of this list is breaking the link between Chinese government procurement and innovation. At both the central and provincial levels, Chinese government officials produce catalogs of products that receive procurement preferences by Chinese government agencies. To be included in these catalogs, the IPR of these products must be registered in China. These indigenous innovation policies essentially remove the ability of American companies to compete fairly with their Chinese competitors for government procurement.A second priority for the U.S. during the JCCT is IPR protection and enforcement. The U.S. business software industry lost close to $8 billion last year as a result of China’s lack of IPR protection. For a company like Microsoft, this translates to the loss of 5,000 – 10,000 jobs; and the overall impact to the U.S. economy could be as high as 60,000 lost jobs in the United States. China has indicated it is committed to cracking down on IPR fraud, but still has a long way to go. IPR protection is critical for innovation for both American and Chinese entrepreneurs. The better China protects IPR, the better off American and Chinese business leaders will be.China must lower barriers to foreign investment. The JCCT is a perfect opportunity for the U.S. to push China to open more sectors to foreign investment, especially the services sectors, and reduce ownership restrictions. One example, consistent with outcomes of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, is for China to remove any requirements for U.S. companies to transfer their technology in order to participate in China’s New Energy Vehicle (NEV) industry or entry into the NEV market. One constant concern raised by the Chinese is the U.S.’s export control policies. Earlier this month, President Obama announced a series of regulations as part of the implementation of the new U.S. export control system that was launched in August of 2010. Consistent with national security concerns, the key changes include the rebuilding of U.S. export control lists and revamping the licensing process. These improvements to U.S. export control policies are important as U.S. companies seek to increase exports around the world. The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has strongly endorsed these changes and the Milken Institute estimates that modernizing these controls could enhance GDP by $64.2 billion and create 160,000 manufacturing jobs. The ability of U.S. companies to export their products overseas, and particularly into the growing Chinese market, is critical for creating jobs here at home. The JCCT this week provides the Administration an opportunity to continue to push China to lower barriers to foreign investment and level the playing the field for U.S. companies to sell their products to the Chinese public. I look forward to seeing positive outcomes from the JCCT and from the upcoming summit between President Hu and President Obama.
12.13.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following letter calling for the National Defense Authorization Act to include language that will require the Department of Defense to take into account the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments when it awards a contract for the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. The World Trade Organization has ruled that Airbus received billions in illegal subsidies to develop the A330 airframe, on which the Airbus tanker is based. The letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee will be sent after Representative Larsen gives his colleagues an opportunity to sign it. Leadership of the House of Representatives and Senate are working to pass a National Defense Authorization Act before Congress adjourns. “Congress needs to act to force the Department of Defense to stop ignoring the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments,” said Rep. Larsen. “This session of Congress is coming to an end, but I am not stopping my fight to make sure that Boeing workers build the next generation of tankers for our military.”The text of the letter follows:Dear Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon:As you complete work on the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act, we write to express our support for language to ensure a fair competition for the Air Force tanker contract. We urge you to include section 848 of H.R. 5136, which requires the Department of Defense to take into account the impact of illegal subsidies on the KC-X tanker competition.Specifically, section 848 requires the Department of Defense, when awarding a contract for the KC-X aerial refueling program, to consider any unfair competitive advantage that an offeror may possess. In this section, the term ‘unfair competitive advantage,’ with respect to an offer for a contract, is defined as a situation in which the cost of development, production, or manufacturing is not fully borne by the offeror for such contract.This provision has strong bipartisan support; section 848 passed on the floor of the House as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 410-8. We strongly urge you to retain section 848 in any final version of the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act. ###Click here to read the Seattle PI coverage of where I stand.
12.13.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Hunger Caucus, released the following statement after President Obama signed the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act (S. 3307) into law. The legislation will help school districts improve the nutritional quality of the food they offer kids, expand after-school and breakfast programs, and connect schools to local farms so children can have fresh and healthy produce. “I applaud the President for signing the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act into law. I am encouraged by the commitment of the President and First Lady to ending childhood hunger by 2015. I will continue to work with the Obama Administration to make sure that all Americans, and especially low-income children, are getting enough to eat.“In my Congressional District, nearly one in six families suffer from hunger and in Washington state over 400,000 children are from families that can not afford to put food on the table. In the last year, I visited schools in Monroe and Mount Baker, and Boys and Girls Clubs in Everett and Ferndale, to learn what our community is doing to ensure local children are getting enough nutritious food to eat every day, and what Congress can do to help. The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act supports the great work being done by schools and non-profits in Northwest Washington.“This law is an important step towards making sure that no child goes hungry, but there is still more work to be done to ensure that low-income kids get nutritious food at the times when they are most vulnerable to hunger-during the summer, after school, and on weekends. As a member of the House Hunger Caucus, I will continue working to help local schools and organizations provide nutritious meals to children 365 days a year.The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act contains the following policy changes to ensure that low-income children have access to nutritious food: Improve the nutritional quality of school meals by providing school districts with an additional 6 cents per meal if they comply with federal nutrition standards. This will be the first federal reimbursement rate increase in more than 30 years. Require the Agriculture Department to develop science-based nutrition standards for all foods that kids can buy on a school campus. This will help reduce the amount of high calorie food and beverages in schools. Expand the after-school meal program for at-risk children by reimbursing the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) providers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia for providing an after-school meal to at-risk kids. This provision is estimated to provide an additional 21 million meals to at-risk children every year.###
12.12.2010	Updates from Whatcom, Skagit and Snohomish Counties:Whatcom County Whatcom Unified Emergency Management is closely monitoring the evolving impacts of the current storm and anticipated Nooksack River flooding later tonight. County and city public works departments and the 911 dispatch center are receiving calls for flooded businesses and homes, flooded streets and small landslides. Crews are out clearing culverts, street drains, and addressing other flood related issues. Citizens can report non-hazardous flood related issues to the following numbers depending on your location:City of Bellingham 778-7700Whatcom County 676-6759Call 911 to report hazardous flood related issues. Drivers should use extreme caution in driving through standing water and heed water over roadway and road closed signs. Skagit County The flood waters in Skagit County continue to recede, with a crest reading in Mount Vernon of 29.0 feet, at 4:00 p.m. yesterday. The crest in Concrete was measured at 31.2 feet at 11:20 p.m. last night. Therehas also been a slight reduction of flood water levels in the Samish River basin. A small staff at the Emergency Operations Center will continue to monitor the situation in both rivers. The Skagit County Department of Emergency Management requests that any residents whose property has been damaged fill out a preliminary Damage Assessment form. This form can be found on Skagit County's website at www.skagitcounty.net. Residents can also have personnel at Emergency Management help fill out these forms by calling 360-428-3250. Normal hours of operation are from 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. There are still a number of road closures in the area. Updated road information can also be accessed on the County's website.Additional information regarding steps that can be taken to assure personal safety and matters pertaining to health - during and after a flood event - are also on the County's website.Snohomish CountySnohomish County's Emergency Operations Center dropped its activation to minimal levels after the last of the rivers crested today. At this point, Snohomish County turns its eyes toward recovery and begins collecting damage assessments for state and federal assistance consideration. Beginning tomorrow, the Department of Emergency Management will start taking damage assessments by telephone at 425-388-5088. Homeowners and business owners can call from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays to report damages. They should begin by documenting what damage has occurred (photos are best) and have an estimated cost of repairing damage or replacing damaged items. For additional information, visit the Snohomish County website at www.snoco.org. For Additional Information on the Flood:Continue to check this website, my office will update it as we receive additional information
12.09.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to the Navy’s announcement that the USS Nimitz will be home ported at Naval Station Everett following its maintenance in Bremerton. “Bringing the USS Nimitz to Naval Station Everett is great news for our community and the right move for our national security. The Navy constructed a base in Everett to support a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier because it is a deepwater port that never needs to be dredged with unimpeded access to the Pacific. Having a carrier at Everett is vital to the local economy, supporting hundreds of good jobs in the ship repair industry and thousands of jobs in the community.“Local officials and leaders in the business community have worked together to support sailors and their families stationed in Everett. The over 4,000 sailors on the Nimitz will enjoy an outstanding quality of life in Everett while serving at the most modern base in the Navy.“I look forward to welcoming the USS Nimitz to our community and letting its sailors and families know that they are welcome and supported here in Everett.”
12.09.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s announcement that Washington state will receive up to $161.5 million in funding for high-speed rail projects. The Department of Transportation is reallocating high-speed rail funds that were rejected by other states. Larsen had called on Ray LaHood, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, to award Washington state with this funding as Washington has many ready-to-go projects that will create jobs. “More high-speed rail funding is a win, win, win for Washington state,” said Rep. Larsen. “I thank Secretary LaHood for recognizing that Washington state can put this funding right to work creating jobs, growing the local economy, and helping commerce and passengers travel more efficiently from point to point.” “Communities across the state, including three in my district- in Everett, Blaine and Bellingham-have ready-to-go projects that will immediately create good jobs for folks who are looking for work during these tough economic times,” said Rep. Larsen. ###
12.09.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to give students who grew up in the United States a chance to contribute to our country by either serving in the military or pursuing a higher education. “The DREAM Act is about allowing young people to serve our country,” said Rep. Larsen. “Folks who grew up in the United States should have the opportunity to contribute to our country through either military service or attaining a college education.”The DREAM Act allows eligible immigrant students aged 29 or under, who have lived here for at least five years and were brought to the U.S. by their parents before the age of 15, to apply for conditional non-immigrant status and eventually become eligible for lawful permanent resident (LPR) status after 10 years, if they choose to serve in the military for two years or attain a college education. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that House version of the DREAM Act will increase revenues by $1.7 billion, and reduce the deficit by more than $2.2 billion, over the next 10 years.“At a time when we have troops on the ground in Afghanistan and Iraq, we should not be turning away qualified individuals who want to serve our country,” said Rep. Larsen. “The DREAM Act will help increase our military recruitment and readiness.”The Department of Defense (DOD) supports the passage of the DREAM Act. The DREAM Act is included in the DOD’s Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010-12 to help the military “shape and maintain a mission-ready All Volunteer Force.” Currently, 35,000 non-citizens serve, and about 8,000 permanent resident aliens enlist in the military every year.###
12.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the Senior Protection Act to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment in 2011 in lieu of a cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA). The Social Security Administration announced that there will be no automatic COLA for 2011. That means that for the first time ever, 2011 will be the second consecutive year that Social Security retirees, veterans, and people with disabilities will see no increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, and Railroad Retirement benefits. The legislation did not pass in the U.S. House of Representatives with a final vote count of 254-153 because it was considered under suspension of the rules, which requires a two-thirds majority.“It is clear that folks are still hurting as the economy slowly recovers. Seniors in Northwest Washington need their social security benefits to make ends meet during these tough economic times,” said Rep. Larsen. “I supported a one-time $250 payment for the 130,000 seniors in the 2nd District who depend on social security to cover their expenses. This benefit would also put dollars right back into the local economy as seniors use the money to buy food and pay their bills.”Social Security benefit levels are modest – only $14,000 a year for the average retiree. The median income for senior households is just $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. Six in ten seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income, and about a third of retirees have little other than Social Security on which to live.###
12.03.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement regarding reports that an agreement had been reached between the Republic of Korea and the United States on a Free Trade Agreement . “Moving forward with a trade agreement between the United States and South Korea is a win-win for American businesses and workers,” said Rep. Larsen. “This agreement will help our small and medium sized businesses export their products-not their jobs overseas.” According to the Office of the United States Trade Representative, Korea was the United States’ 8th largest goods trading partner in 2009. Last year, the United States exported $28.6 billion worth of goods and $12.6 billion in services to Korea. The U.S. International Trade Commission estimates that enactment of the U.S.-Republic of Korea Trade Promotion Agreement will increase U.S. exports to Korea by as much as $11 billion. The US Commerce Department calculates that every $1 billion in increased exports creates 6,250 American jobs, which means as many as 75,000 new American manufacturing jobs. “In Washington state, approximately one in three jobs are linked to exports and the pay is 46% higher than the state average. Korea is the fifth largest trading partner for Washington,” said Rep. Larsen. “Expanding trade with South Korea will help our local small and medium sized businesses access the global marketplace so they can grow and create good jobs in our communities.” Without a trade agreement with Korea, America businesses and workers will face severe disadvantages, from high tariffs to unfair discriminatory practices. This agreement will level the playing field for US jobs and services by breaking down barriers and creating fair rules for US businesses and workers exporting to Korea. Specifically this agreement would create stronger standards for Korea farm and food exports, create new transparency requirements, cut custom red tape to speed up processing at Korea, and protect American ideas by enforcing IP protections for U.S. patents, copyrights & trademarks, among other things.###
12.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), released the following statement after voting to extend tax cuts for middle class families and small businesses. The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 will extend tax cuts for families that make less than $250,000 a year and 97% of small businesses. “Today, I supported immediately extending tax cuts for middle class families.“Families in Northwest Washington are still struggling to make ends meet in these tough economic times. Until the economy has recovered, and people can feel it, helping the middle class needs to be a top priority. “Middle class families need this financial relief and will actually use the tax break to spend money and help fuel our local economy. “While I support an immediate tax cut for middle class families, I cannot support a proposal that will blow a $700 billion hole in the national debt just to cut taxes for people who make over $250,000.“I heard a loud and clear message from folks in Northwest Washington this fall: ‘get control of the debt.’ I am working to find the right balance between extending the tax cuts to the middle class and controlling the exploding federal debt and deficit.“Controlling the debt also means controlling spending. The annual deficit, that is still too large, fell $125 billion in the last twelve months and is expected to drop over another $260 billion in the next year, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.“I believe Congress needs to keep this momentum going by controlling the growth of government and reigning in spending. I am fighting to change the way Congress manages the federal budget.”###
12.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), voted to pass the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act (S. 3307) to help reduce childhood hunger and obesity. The legislation will help school districts improve the nutritional quality of the food they offer kids, expand after-school and breakfast programs, and connect schools to local farms so children can have fresh and healthy produce. “In these tough economic times, many hardworking families cannot afford the groceries they need to feed their families. In my Congressional District, nearly one in six families suffer from hunger and in Washington state over 400,000 children are from families that are struggling to put food on the table,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act will bring us a step closer to ending childhood hunger by ensuring that kids are getting enough nutritious food to eat every day.”Local anti-hunger organizations view this legislation as vital to the fight against childhood hunger. “At Food Lifeline, 37% of the people we serve at Western Washington food pantries are children, but we know that food pantries alone can’t end hunger,” said Linda Nageotte President and CEO of Food Lifeline, a Washington state anti- hunger organization. “In this tough economy, the Healthy, Hunger-free Kids Act helps ensure that more of Washington’s children have access nutritious meals, just when they need them most. We want to thank Congressman Larsen for his leadership on legislation to strengthen our nation’s child nutrition programs and help to end hunger in our state,” she continued.Earlier this year, the House Committee on Education and Labor approved legislation that included a provision authored by Larsen, the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act (HR 4274), to allow non-profits to serve meals to low-income children year-round through the Summer Food Service Program. While this proposal was not included in the bill on the floor today, a section of the legislation achieves part of this goal by expanding the Child and Adult Care Food Program to include after-school meals served by non-profits to low-income kids.“Although this legislation did not include my proposal to help local non-profits and local government organizations serve healthy meals to low-income children 365 days a year, I am encouraged that the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act includes a provision to help the Child and Adult Care Food Program provide after school meals to at-risk children so they get the nutritious foods they need to succeed,” said Rep. Larsen. “I will continue to work to ensure that low-income kids get nutritious food at the times when they are most vulnerable to hunger— during the summer, after school, and on weekends.”The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act contains the following policy changes to ensure that low-income children have access to nutritious food: Improve the nutritional quality of school meals by providing school districts with an additional 6 cents per meal if they comply with federal nutrition standards. This will be the first federal reimbursement rate increase in more than 30 years. Require the Agriculture Department to develop science-based nutrition standards for all foods that kids can buy on a school campus. This will help reduce the amount of high calorie food and beverages in schools. Expand the after-school meal program for at-risk children by reimbursing the Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) providers in all 50 states and the District of Columbia for providing an after-school meal to at-risk kids. This provision is estimated to provide an additional 21 million meals to at-risk children every year.
11.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), made the following statement after attending a House Armed Services Committee briefing on the results of the Pentagon’s report on how ending the Don’t Ask Don’t Tell policy will affect troop readiness and morale. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “The Pentagon’s comprehensive and objective study verifies that the risk of repeal to overall military effectiveness is low. The study cites that 90 percent of service members said that working with a service member who they believed to be gay did not hurt the performance of their brigade or platoon. “I believe we need to repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell because we need to support the willingness of all Americans who want to volunteer for the military to serve their country. I also believe we need to retain people in our military who are providing basic and advanced skills toward our nation's security.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I have heard from senior military leaders who support repealing this policy. “Allowing all qualified men and women to serve their country will have long-term benefits for our national security. “I call on the Senate to move forward with a defense bill that repeals Don’t Ask Don’t Tell and allows all men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line to protect our country to join our military.###
11.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on North Korea’s artillery attack against the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong.“North Korea’s unprovoked artillery attack onto the South Korean island of Yeonpyeong is unacceptable, belligerent behavior. “The international community should not reward North Korea for its provocative actions.“I am pleased that the United States is standing with South Korea, our treaty ally, during this difficult time. I urge the international community to join the United States in condemning North Korea’s unprovoked aggression and supporting South Korea as we work to restore peace and stability to the region.”###
11.18.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, called on Ray LaHood, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, to give Washington state an opportunity to receive additional funding for high-speed rail projects. The Administration announced that it plans to reallocate high-speed rail funds that were rejected by other states.“Communities in my district can immediately start using this high-speed rail funding to create much-needed local jobs,” said Rep. Larsen. “There are high-speed rail projects in Everett, Blaine and Bellingham that are ready-to-go and will help commuters and commerce travel more efficiently throughout the region.” “Ridership in Washington state is strong and continues to grow,” said Rep. Larsen “Washington state is well-positioned to use these funds to build projects that will boost our local economy and put people to work.” The text of the letter follows:November 17, 2010The Honorable Ray LaHoodSecretary of TransportationU.S. Department of TransportationDear Secretary LaHood:I write regarding the Administration’s plans to reallocate high-speed rail funds rejected by other states. My home state of Washington is well-positioned to use these funds on ready-to-go projects that will create jobs. I encourage you to give Washington state strong consideration for any returned high-speed rail funds. There is strong public support for high-speed rail in Washington state. The Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor has experienced record-breaking ridership this year. Amtrak Cascades ridership is up 13% this year compared to last year. The second train to Vancouver, B.C., which began in August 2009 and will continue at least through October 2011, was a major factor in the growing popularity of Amtrak Cascades. The state of Washington is committed to investing in the corridor: Washington state ranks second in the nation in the amount of direct state subsidy that supports Amtrak service. Washington state has invested $137 million in capital rail improvements since 1999 to improve infrastructure, safety and stations. Earlier this year, the Federal Rail Administration (FRA) recognized Washington state’s strong commitment to high-speed rail when they awarded the Pacific Northwest Rail Corridor $590 million in Recovery Act funds. Projects funded by these grants will help grow the Amtrak Cascades service and improve on-time performance and reliability, with the long-term goal of increasing the number of daily roundtrips between Seattle and Portland. Washington state is well positioned to use any returned high-speed rail funds. The state has 14 projects valued at $533.5 million which were submitted to and vetted by FRA in their original high-speed rail application that were not funded. Three of these projects are located in my district and could create much-needed jobs in our local communities. They include the Blaine-Swift Customs Facility Siding ($5.1 million), Bellingham Main Line Relocation ($45.1 million) and Everett Curve Realignment ($78.3 million). I urge you to give Washington state strong consideration for any returned funds and stand ready to work with you to reprogram these funds. Thank you for your attention to my request.Sincerely,Rick LarsenMember of Congress###
11.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement regarding reports that the United States and NATO are preparing a “transition” strategy in Afghanistan war.“When I returned from Afghanistan in August, I called on U.S. and Afghan officials to put pen to paper to decide what our strategic relationship will look like in the future. The U.S. government must clarify what responsibilities the Afghans will assume, and how we will support them.“I am pleased that the U.S. and NATO are preparing to announce a strategy for transitioning areas of Afghanistan from NATO to Afghan leadership. This is an important step forward.“The U.S. must also develop a bilateral strategic framework that addresses how we will help Afghanistan take the lead in security operations and economic development while demonstrating our ongoing commitment to provide the country with necessary aid. This framework should not be an open-ended commitment of troops and resources, but it should reassure the Afghan people that the U.S. is a strong and reliable partner. “The U.S. strategy moving forward should continue to build on the progress we have made towards the shared goal of both Americans and Afghans: letting the Afghan people build their own country.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will continue to carefully review the Administration’s policies towards Afghanistan. ###
10.14.2010	Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen praised reports that the Canadian government announced that the Canada Border Services Agency has come up with the $800,000 in border inspection costs to keep a second Amtrak train running between Vancouver and Seattle. Larsen has been fighting to ensure this train remains in service. "Keeping the second Amtrak train in service is a great news for our economy and for folks in both the U.S. and Canada," said Rep. Larsen. "Local commuters and tourists will be able to use this train to travel more efficiently around the region and fuel the local economy by spending their dollars in communities on both sides of the border."###
10.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent a letter to the Canadian Minister of Public Safety urging the Canadian government to reconsider their fee increase on the second Amtrak Cascades train so it can remain in service. The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) recently learned that the Canadian government will impose a cost recovery fee for border clearance service for the second Amtrak Cascades train. CBSA waived the fee for the second train during last year’s pilot program. The Canadian government told WSDOT that they need an estimated $547,500 annually to operate the train. Members of Congress from both Washington and Oregon joined Murray and Larsen in signing this letter. “The second Amtrak Cascades train offers a clear economic benefit for communities on both sides of the border,” said Rep. Rick Larsen. “I urge the Canadian government to hold up their end of the bargain so this service can continue to help enhance cross-border travel for people traveling and commuting in the region. It would be a mistake to eliminate this valuable train service as ridership is growing and passengers are helping the economy by spending their dollars in both the U.S. and Canada.”"I am extremely disappointed that Canada has taken this counterproductive and harmful action against Washington state passengers," said Senator Patty Murray. "This new fee will hurt our state and it will reduce cross-border economic activity that helps both countries. I will continue working with the rest of the delegation to urge Canada to reconsider this decision."Text of the letter to the Canadian Minister of Public Safety follows:The Honorable Vic Toews Minister of Public SafetyHouse of CommonsOttawa, OntarioCanada K1A-OA6Dear Minister Toews:We were extremely disappointed to learn last month that the Canadian government plans to impose nearly $550,000 in additional fees for border-clearance services for the second Amtrak Cascades train. We are writing to respectfully request that you reconsider your decision and allow the second train to continue operating.The second train offers a clear economic benefit on both sides of the border. It has brought in an estimated $11.8 million in economic benefits to British Columbia during the past year. In our current economic recovery, we must be doing everything possible to encourage economic activity and tourism. The service has been successful in enhancing cross-border travel for people traveling and commuting in the region. Total ridership on the second train has grown steadily in the first year of operation, carrying nearly 245,000 passengers. As a result of the second train, annual ridership into Vancouver has almost doubled from approximately 35,000 to 70,000, exceeding expectations. Along with the clear economic benefits of additional rail service, enhancing this service gives our citizens an efficient and reliable alternative to driving. It takes vehicles off of the road and will help Washington state, Oregon and B.C. in achieving our long term emissions reduction goals. We also note that the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) has provided inspection services for the second train without imposing any additional cost burden on Washington and Oregon passengers. It is our sincere hope that the Canadian Border Service Agency will be able to do the same. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Our two nations have benefited greatly from the economic benefits and increased connectivity this service provides and we look forward to it continuing in the future.###
10.10.2010	U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement on the completion of the transfer of the Mitchell Hill property to the National Parks Service:“I am thrilled that the Mitchell Hill property is a part of San Juan Island Historical Park. Mitchell Hill has outstanding natural, recreational, and historical values. Transferring this property to the National Parks Service will preserve this land for future generations of local visitors and tourists.“I was pleased to secure the funding needed to protect Mitchell Hill from development and keep it open and accessible to the public.“Preserving Mitchell Hill has been a team effort, and I want to thank the Parks Service, the Department of Natural Resources, the Conservation Fund, and the many local citizens who worked to make this project a reality.”###
10.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the Missile Defense Agency’s Sea-Based X-Band Radar (SBX) will undergo maintenance on its propulsion systems at Todd Pacific Shipyards in Seattle. Naval Station Everett had been considered as a potential location for the maintenance, which is required for the SBX to continue operating.“The SBX radar will undergo a heavy maintenance period at Todd Pacific Shipyards in Seattle in the next year. Naval Station Everett could not guarantee that pier space would be available for the SBX during the times requested by the Missile Defense Agency.“The Pacific Northwest is an outstanding location for Navy ships. We have deepwater ports that never need to be dredged, and we have a private ship repair industry that is ready, willing, and able to perform challenging maintenance work on all types of vessels. I commend Todd Shipyards for taking on maintenance of the SBX.“Naval Station Everett provides sailors and their families with an outstanding quality of life. I will continue to advocate for bringing more Navy ships to Everett, including a carrier to replace the USS Lincoln when it leaves for refueling in 2012.”While considering where to bring the SBX for maintenance, the Navy hosted town hall events with citizens in Everett and South Whidbey Island to learn about their views.“I thank the Navy and the Missile Defense Agency for engaging with the local community and listening to their views on where to bring the SBX radar for maintenance,” said Rep. Larsen.###
10.07.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement regarding the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) release of a draft decision to extend the contract to provide electricity to the Intalco aluminum facility through at least May of 2012.“I have been working to keep Intalco running for nearly ten years. The plant supports over 500 good jobs for Whatcom County workers and their families. “A one-year extension of the current contract is a great step forward, and I will stand by Intalco workers and keep pushing for a long-term contract. A long-term contract will provide stability for workers and give the plant a reason to make major long-term investments. “I applaud BPA for working with Intalco through many ups and downs to structure a power contract that makes good business sense and protects local jobs.”###
10.04.2010	U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement today following the Washington Department of Labor and Industries announcement that it would fine Tesoro $2.38 million for 44 willful and serious violation of worker safety laws.“My thoughts and prayers remain with the families and loved ones of the seven men and women who died as a result of the Tesoro fire on April 2nd. “No fine or penalty can bring back the workers who were killed in this incident, but the record fine announced today sends a clear message that companies will be held accountable for keeping their workers safe.“The federal Chemical Safety Board will issue an independent report on the Tesoro incident next year, supplementing the work of the Washington Department of Labor and Industries. “Moving forward, we must learn from this incident and do everything we can to make refineries a safer place to work. I encourage Tesoro to use the results of outside investigations to make the plant safer as it restarts operations.”###
09.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised funding that will enable the Mount Vernon Police Department (MVPD) to hire two new police officers. Larsen sent a letter urging the U.S. Department of Justice to award the MVPD with a COPS Hiring Program Grant to help enhance their community policing programs. “The Mount Vernon Police Department has a strong record of effective policing programs that have reduced crime and gang violence in the community, but the state of the economy is threatening their ability to keep officers in neighborhoods and in the local schools,” said Rep. Larsen. “This critical funding will allow the MVPD to hire 2 police officers so they can continue their hard work to keep Mount Vernon safe.”Law enforcement agencies can use Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Recovery Program grants to hire and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. These grants provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. The MVPD will receive $636,538 that will allow them to hire two officers for three years. ###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on an amended version of H.R. 2378, The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act. The bill would establish a less restrictive process for the Department of Commerce to determine if foreign countries are subsidizing their exports by manipulating currency and, if so, impose trade sanctions on these countries. “I recognize that there are parts of the country that have been hit hard by trade, and some think that China’s currency has played a role in jobs leaving the U.S.“I understand that frustration. I want keep U.S. jobs in the U.S. I want to support our manufacturing base and see the label ‘Made in America’ again.“In my district alone there are over 1,000 manufacturers employing over 54,600 workers on average per day. Most are smaller manufacturing companies.“‘Made in America’ means helping small and medium sized manufacturers access the tools they need to create jobs and grow. “Congress should be talking about the real issues that impact U.S. jobs going overseas. We should address the protections needed for intellectual property rights (IPR) of American companies doing business in China. We should oppose China’s efforts to create national champions that unfairly compete with U.S. companies that are exporting into the Chinese market. We should help clean energy and aerospace manufacturing firms in Northwest Washington and across the country help ship their products – not their jobs – overseas. “These are the issues that matter and are direct ties to job creation for American companies.“China is the largest and most rapidly growing export market for Washington state and one in three jobs in Washington state is tied to trade. We need to continue to negotiate with China on those matters that create jobs for American companies.“A better approach to tackling China’s overvalued currency would be increasing our bilateral and multilateral pressure on the Chinese, and not imposing unilateral tariffs.“Using today’s legislation as a blunt tool may end up working against our trade interests.###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, praised a new report released by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) highlighting transportation jobs created by the Recovery Act. “The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials’ report underscores what many construction workers already know: that the Recovery Act has put people to work repairing and building roads, bridges and highways,” said Rep. Larsen. “I have visited projects across my district, from Lake Stevens to Ferndale, to see people at work, helping communities grow by improving roads and infrastructure, and earning a paycheck that will help them put food on the table and pay their bills.”The Recovery Act invested in transportation projects that saved or created 350,000 jobs nationally and 15,746 in Washington state for the first year, and 355,194 nationally and 13,624 in Washington state up to this point during its second year. ###
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced Joyce Eleanor, CEO of Community Transit, at a hearing for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, to discuss how the Recovery Act has benefited Community Transit and Northwest Washington. “As a former member of Community Transit’s Board of Directors and a former regular rider on their commuter service, I was honored to introduce Joyce Eleanor CEO of Community Transit to testify at today’s Transportation and Infrastructure hearing.“Community Transit is known in the 2nd District and in Washington state as a forward-thinking and community-focused transit agency. “Community Transit has a great story to tell about how federal investments can help organizations grow and hire during tough economic times. As a result of the Recovery Act, Community Transit saved or created almost 80 jobs in my district. “Community Transit is still struggling in this economy, but through Recovery Act funding, they were able to make new investments, their customers were able to rely on buses to commute around the region, and their workers were able to put food on the table and pay their bills. ###
09.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined with the Whatcom County Boys & Girls Club to call on George Miller, Chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, to continue supporting a provision Larsen authored to fight childhood hunger. This provision, modeled after Larsen’s Ensuring All Students Year-round (EASY) Access to Meals and Snacks Act (HR 4274), will help low-income kids access nutritious food after school and during the summer months. Larsen’s language was included in the House child nutrition bill, the Improving Nutrition for America’s Children Act (HR 5504), but was not included in the version of this bill that passed the Senate (S. 3307).“Nearly one in six families in my Congressional district suffers from hunger. In these tough economic times, it is critical that we are making sure kids get enough to eat so they can perform better in school and avoid serious health problems down the road,” said Rep. Larsen. “This program will help local organizations, like the Whatcom County Boys and Girls Club, ensure low-income kids get nutritious food at the times when they are most vulnerable to hunger— during the summer, after school, and on weekends.”“As a Boys & Girls Club that receives federal support to feed low income kids, we support the work done by our Congressman, Rick Larsen, to expand the Summer Food Service program to allow non-profit organizations to serve kids healthy meals and snacks throughout the year,” writes Lynn Templeton, Executive Director of the Boys & Girls Clubs of Whatcom County. “This directly benefits the kids we serve here in Whatcom County, Washington.”The text of the two letters, one from Rep. Larsen and one from the Whatcom County Boys & Girls Club, follows:To: The Honorable George MillerDear Congressman Miller:I am writing to thank you for your hard work on the child nutrition programs. Your work on behalf of kids, especially those who need us most, is deeply appreciated.I understand that the Senate has passed a child nutrition reauthorization bill, and the House is working to pass its version.As a Boys & Girls Club that receives federal support to feed low income kids, we support the work done by our Congressman, Rick Larsen, to expand the Summer Food Service program to allow non-profit organizations to serve kids healthy meals and snacks throughout the year. This directly benefits the kids we serve here in Whatcom County, Washington. Last year we served over 49,000 meals as part of our food service program at our five Branch Clubs.I hope that you will support retaining this provision as you work to enact a child nutrition bill into law this year.Thank you for your consideration, and thanks for what you do for America.With respect and gratitude,Lynn James TempletonExecutive Director/CEOBoys & Girls Clubs of Whatcom CountySeptember 22, 2010The Honorable George MillerChairman, House Committee on Education and Labor2181 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Dear Chairman Miller:Thank you for your efforts to pass a comprehensive child nutrition bill. As you continue to work to reconcile the House and Senate versions of this legislation, I urge you to attempt to retain Section 113 of the Improving Nutrition for America's Children Act (HR 5504), which will help kids get enough to eat during times when they are most vulnerable to hunger – after school, the summer, weekends, and holidays.As you know, Section 113 is based on legislation I introduced earlier this year to expand the highly successful “Miller Pilot” currently operating in California. It will allow non-profit organizations in California and nine additional states to serve meals 365 days a year through the Summer Food Service Program, reducing paperwork requirements and administrative costs and allowing these providers to focus on delivering quality foods and programming for kids.I have enclosed a letter to you from the Whatcom County Boys and Girls Club in my district. As a provider of nearly 50,000 meals each year to low-income children, they are a great advocate for the value of expanding the Miller Pilot.Thank you for your consideration of my views. I look forward to working with you to pass a comprehensive child nutrition bill in the near future.Best,Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd Congressional District
09.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Seapower and Expeditionary Forces, issued the following statement after meeting with Navy officials and representatives from local utilities, universities, governments in Everett, WA to discuss the Navy’s energy goals.“The Navy’s energy goals will be a national security game changer. “If the U.S. can reduce our dependence on foreign oil, we can save money and increase our ability to act with more freedom across the globe. “The innovation and research needed to develop a Green Navy can be done locally, here in Washington state. “Naval Station Everett is an ideal location for the Navy to test its new energy initiatives and develop solutions to meet their long-term energy goals because the base is already a leader in energy efficiency and has tremendous support from the community. “I look forward to continuing to work with Navy leadership, Naval Station Everett and the surrounding community as we seek to achieve these energy goals. ###
09.24.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after the House Ways and Means Committee voted to send Chairman Levin’s Substitute Amendment to H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act of 2009, to the House floor. This bill establishes a less restrictive process for the Department of Commerce to determine whether a country is subsidizing exports by manipulating its currency and to impose trade sanctions on these countries. Rep. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S. China Working Group. The USCWG includes 63 Members from the U.S. House of Representatives and focuses on educating Members and staff about the U.S.-China relationship through meetings and briefings with academic, business and political leaders from the United States and China. Larsen represents the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state. China is the largest and most rapidly growing export market for Washington state. One in three jobs in Washington state is tied to trade, and from 2000 - 2009, Washington state exports to China grew by 379 percent.“China must move faster to reform its currency policy.“China’s currency policy is not only hurting U.S.-China trade because it is making products manufactured in the U.S. more expensive to export, but it is also hurting their own economic interest. “Currency revaluation is one of the few tools that China has left in its toolbox to tame inflation.“I urge the Administration to intensify its multilateral efforts to increase international pressure on China to revalue its currency.“It is my hope that China will allow its currency to appreciate faster so unilateral actions by the U.S. government, like those described in the bill passed today by the Ways and Means Committee, will not be utilized.”###
09.24.2010	Washington, D.C. —U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on the Internal Revenue Service to halt diesel fuel audits after being contacted by a number of farmers throughout Washington state expressing concern about discrepancies in IRS regulations. A number of Washington state agricultural groups contacted Rep. Larsen on behalf of Robert Engle, of Engle Family Farms in Coupeville, after he received a fine for using tax-exempt diesel fuel to operate his harrow bed on a public highway. Mr. Engle, like many local famers, has been operating his harrow bed with dyed fuels under the impression that he is complying with federal law. Rep. Larsen is calling on the IRS to clarify this policy for local farmers. “Many local farmers need to transport vehicles between multiple fields on their farms. This can sometimes necessitate traveling a short distance on public roads, which Washington state law allows,” said Rep. Larsen. “I am calling on the IRS to halt diesel fuel audits until they examine whether there are discrepancies in this policy and clarify it for the farming community.”The text of the letter Rep. Larsen and Rep. Inslee sent to the IRS follows:Commissioner Douglas ShulmanInternal Revenue ServiceU.S. Department of the Treasury1111 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room 3241Washington, DC 20224Dear Commissioner Shulman,We have recently been contacted by a number of farmers throughout the state regarding fuel audits by Internal Revenue Service (IRS) inspectors on farms. One of them, Robert Engle, received a fine for the use of dyed fuel in a harrow bed, used to collect and stack hay. We are concerned that the vehicles being tested appear to match the proposed nontaxable uses defined by the IRS. Mr. Engle operates Engle Family Farms on Whidbey Island in Washington State. The farm was visited July 26, 2010 by IRS agent Jeffrey Thompson for a fuel audit. Sampling found dyed diesel fuel in the farms harrow bed, while other vehicles, semi-trucks and dump trucks, were operating with clear fuels. Mr. Engle was fined $9,000 for the fuel in the harrow bed and the 800 gallons of dyed fuel in storage.According to the Definitions of Nontaxable Uses in Part 1, Chapter 2 in Publication 510 on Excise Taxes, vehicles using dyed fuel “in carrying on a trade or business of farming, on a farm in the United States, and for farming purposes” are permitted to use dyed fuels. The farming purposes definition includes vehicles used “to handle, dry, pack, grade, or store any raw agricultural or horticultural commodity.” Hay, the only commodity that is handled and stored by a harrow bed, is a commodity that fits within this definition. There is no commercial use of a harrow bed, it is used to bring hay in from the field. The harrow bed also fits within the definitions of “Off-Highway Business Use.” Since the harrow bed is recognized as a farm vehicle, it is not licensed by the State of Washington and is still permitted by the licensing authority of the state to operate in a limited capacity on the roadway. The state allows harrow beds to operate on roadways so that it may move from field to field in the vicinity of the farm. It is not a registered vehicle, nor is it required to be by the state. For this reason, it fits in the IRS’ definition of an Off-Highway Business Use. The definition also includes specially designed mobile machinery for non-transportation functions and goes on to say that “the chassis has been specially designed to serve only as a mobile carriage and mount (and power source, if applicable) for the machinery or equipment, whether or not the machinery or equipment is in operation.” The use of limited transportation on the roadway with a harrow bed seems to overlap multiple definitions of nontaxable uses while solidly fitting the IRS definition, and is explicitly listed by Washington State as a farm-use vehicle. The transportation of hay using a harrow bed burning dyed fuel fits the definition of farming purposes for both the IRS and Washington State. Mr. Engle and farmers throughout the state have no intention of deliberately violating laws enforcing dyed fuel use. We are writing to ask that clarification be provided to explain the harrow beds exclusion by the IRS from legal use of exempt fuels. According to local famers, they are operating harrow beds with dyed fuels under the impression that they are complying with federal law. For that reason, please clarify how a harrow bed’s function on the farm is not covered in the definitions of nontaxable uses. Specifically, we would ask that the IRS clarify why a harrow bed is not considered a farm vehicle that can operate with exempt dyed fuel. The IRS also needs to clearly explain how a harrow bed, recognized by Washington State as the regulating authority on highway vehicles, fits within the definition of a “highway vehicle.” Until a thorough explanation of a harrow bed’s “highway vehicle status” is provided, the IRS, in good faith to the operators trying to interpret IRS definitions, should immediately postpone agriculture related fuel audits. Thank you for your consideration. We look forward to your response.###
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that included a key provision authored by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to connect small and medium sized businesses with export opportunities that will help them grow and hire. Larsen’s Small Manufacturers Export Initiative was included in the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010 that will increase lending to small businesses so they can create jobs in Northwest Washington. This passed the Senate last week and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “I want to see the label ‘Made in America’ again,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will help our small and medium sized businesses export their products-not their jobs-overseas.”The global market presents a fast and ever growing market for U.S. exports. Nearly 3.7 million – or 27 percent- of manufacturing jobs are supported by exports. In Rep Larsen’s district alone there are 192 aerospace production suppliers and other vendors, and in Washington state there are over 100 boat manufacturers-many of which are small businesses exporting their products. However, most U.S. small and medium sized manufacturers are dissuaded from entering the global market place due to financial roadblocks, conflicting information, Intellectual Property Rights infringements and cultural differences. The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will build the infrastructure necessary to help these American Small and Medium Sized Businesses access export opportunities around the world.“In Washington state, approximately one in three jobs are linked to exports and the pay is 46% higher than the state average,” said Rep. Larsen. “The global marketplace offers tremendous potential for our businesses to grow good jobs. We need to do all we can to help small manufacturers sell their products across the world so they can expand and prosper.” “The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will provide the resources and infrastructure that small manufacturers need to access export opportunities around the world,” said Rep. Larsen. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and we need to be their champions so we can build an environment that will allow them to thrive and create jobs.”The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will provide resources to the Department of Commerce to assist manufacturers in finding and developing new markets for their products. These funds are projected to help create over 9,000 jobs. It also authorizes funds to be used by the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) to expand the ExporTech program which helps manufacturing companies with the mechanics of exporting. The Department of Commerce projects the return on investment for the ExporTech program is 100:1.“These tools are critical for helping small manufacturers in Washington state export their products and create jobs. Washington state is home to some of the greatest innovative minds in the country and this initiative will help local small businesses grow and be globally competitive. I commend Rep Larsen on his hard work on this bill,” said John Vicklund, President of Impact Washington (formerly Washington Manufacturing Services), a non-profit organization that strengthens Washington manufacturers to make them more globally competitive.The Small Business Jobs Act that passed the House today will help small businesses by increasing much-needed lending and offering tax incentives to companies.“As the number one source of new job growth in our nation, small businesses are a critical part of our economic recovery,” said Rep. Larsen “The Small Business Jobs Act will help small businesses access the capital they need to expand and hire.” The Small Business Jobs Act establishes a $30 billion lending fund which uses performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that the funds go to American small businesses. The fund is full paid for and will save taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten year. The Small Business Jobs Act also offers tax incentives to spur investments in American small businesses. These reforms will lower capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses.###
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C. —U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced that many key provisions of the new health care law that will hold protect consumers and hold insurance companies accountable are taking effect today“In the six months since historic health care reform was signed into law, many families, seniors and small businesses across Northwest Washington have already started to receive more secure, affordable coverage. “Washington state seniors who fell into the donut hole began receiving their first $250 checks to help them afford the skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs and over 14,400 small businesses in the 2nd District learned they may qualify for significant tax credits so they no longer have to choose between health care and hiring.“Today, many of the key provisions of the new health care law that will end the abusive practices of insurance companies and give the power back to consumers will take effect. “No longer will insurance companies be able to drop patients from their plans when they get sick or deny coverage to children with preexisting conditions. “As students head back to school and think about finding a job after graduation, they can take comfort in knowing they can now stay on their parents’ health plans until they turn 26. This provision will help up to 20,500 young adults from Washington state count on secure health insurance coverage. For plan years beginning on or after September 23, 2010, all privately-insured Americans will have the following protections:Health coverage cannot be arbitrarily cancelled if you become sick. Children cannot be denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition.Children up to age 26 can stay on their parents’ health plan. Health insurance companies cannot put a lifetime limit on health coverage. Health plans’ annual limits are phased out over three years. Beginning Thursday, consumers purchasing new plans will have the following additional protections:Patients have the right to choose their own doctor.Preventive services will be available without deductable or co-payments. Patients have the right to both an internal and external appeal of insurers’ coverage decisions. Patients have the right to access out-of-network emergency room care at in-network cost-sharing rates.###
09.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, expressed disappointment in the U.S. Senate’s failure to advance legislation that would repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ “All qualified men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line to protect our country should be allowed to join our military.“Stalling on this important legislation is only hurting our nation’s military readiness. Many of our mission-critical troops, including linguists that are essential to our efforts in Afghanistan, continue to be discharged due to this outdated policy. “We can not afford inaction. It is past time to move forward and end this discriminatory policy.”###
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Larsen (WA-02) praised today’s announcement that the U.S. Department of Commerce awarded a $4.1 million Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) grant to the Puget Sound Center Foundation for Teaching, Learning, and Technology to help bridge the technological divide, improve education, and increase access to legal services in Washington state. Larsen supported legislation to invest in this important project that will expand economic and educational opportunities for people in Northwest Washington. “High speed internet helps connect people with the educational, employment and business resources that they need in today’s 21st century economy. Too many people and small businesses across Northwest Washington are suffering from living in rural communities with limited or no internet access,” said Rep. Larsen. “This BTOP grant will go a long way toward providing broadband access throughout Northwest Washington so folks can access better educational opportunities, civic tools, health resources and critical job information.”This funding will allow the Puget Sound Center Foundation to expand and upgrade 39 public computer centers in Washington State. This grant includes partnering with the Northwest Justice Project, Washington’s publicly funded legal aid program, to establish public computer centers in rural courts, where the public can access online legal resources and other services. The project also plans enhanced training offerings for economically vulnerable populations, including courses addressing GED test preparation, digital literacy, job searches, and financial education. “The Northwest Justice Project (NJP) is extremely pleased that Washington’s collaborative JusticeNet vision of using broadband technology to improve access to justice will now be a reality. Funding for the Broadband Technology Opportunity Program (BTOP) will make it possible for NJP to develop and stream much needed online videos to help families protect themselves in our courts. In addition, the JusticeNet collaborative will develop courthouse based public justice centers in Whatcom County to assist unrepresented litigants and to help the courts deliver on the promise of equal justice. BTOP funding will also allow NJP to work actively with local public computing centers throughout Washington to improve access to civil legal aid services and to NJP’s extensive online legal resources,” said Cesar Torres, Executive Director of the Northwest Justice Project.###
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. Senate passed legislation that included a key provision authored by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to connect small and medium sized businesses with export opportunities that will help them grow and hire. Larsen’s proposal was included in the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act of 2010 that passed the Senate by a vote of 61 to 38. “I want to see the label ‘Made in America’ again,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will help our small and medium sized businesses export their products-not their jobs-overseas.”The global market presents a fast and ever growing market for U.S. exports. Nearly 3.7 million – or 27 percent- of manufacturing jobs are supported by exports. In Rep Larsen’s district alone there are 192 aerospace production suppliers and other vendors, and in Washington state there are over 100 boat manufacturers-many of which are small businesses exporting their products. However, most U.S. small and medium sized manufacturers are dissuaded from entering the global market place due to financial roadblocks, conflicting information, Intellectual Property Rights infringements and cultural differences. The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will build the infrastructure necessary to help these American Small and Medium Sized Businesses access export opportunities around the world.“In Washington state, approximately one in three jobs are linked to exports and the pay is 46% higher than the state average,” said Rep. Larsen. “The global marketplace offers tremendous potential for our businesses to grow good jobs. We need to do all we can to help small manufacturers sell their products across the world so they can expand and prosper.” “The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will provide the resources and infrastructure that small manufacturers need to access export opportunities around the world,” said Rep. Larsen. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, and we need to be their champions so we can build an environment that will allow them to thrive and create jobs.”The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will provide resources to the Department of Commerce to assist manufacturers in finding and developing new markets for their products. These funds are projected to help create over 9,000 jobs. It also authorizes funds to be used by the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) to expand the ExporTech program which helps manufacturing companies with the mechanics of exporting. The Department of Commerce projects the return on investment for the ExporTech program is 100:1.“These tools are critical for helping small manufacturers in Washington state export their products and create jobs. Washington state is home to some of the greatest innovative minds in the country and this initiative will help local small businesses grow and be globally competitive. I commend Rep Larsen on his hard work on this bill,” said John Vicklund, President of Impact Washington (formerly Washington Manufacturing Services), a non-profit organization that strengthens Washington manufacturers to make them more globally competitive.###
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. —U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) lauded the work of Naval Air Station Whidbey and the EA/6B Prowler and EA/18G Growler squadrons during a keynote speech he delivered on electronic warfare at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), which hosted an all-day conference titled “Addressing an Increasingly Congested and Contested Electro-Magnetic Spectrum.” Larsen is the Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Electronic Warfare Working Group, an organization dedicated to educating senior policymakers, including the Department of Defense and Congress, about the importance of Electronic Warfare to our national security. This is particularly important to Northwest Washington, which is home to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and the Navy’s Electronic Attack Wing-Pacific, the military’s premiere Electronic Warfare unit.Maren Leed, Director of the New Defense Approaches Project at CSIS, introduced Rep. Larsen to the over 100 attendees from the military, academia, and private industry present at the conference.“(Rep. Larsen) is deeply steeped in these issues, he’s been a great advocate for the broad capability nationally, and he’s really been a leader in the House in developing a broader understanding across all the relevant committees about the importance of the Electronic Warfare component of our national defense,” Leed said. “I appreciate the opportunity to draw attention to the outstanding work being done by Electronic Warfare experts at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island,” said Rep. Larsen. “I will continue to highlight the unique skills of this community as I keep working to make sure that our military is focused on current and future Electronic Warfare threats.”The following is Rep. Larsen’s remarks, as prepared for delivery:CSIS Keynote on Electronic WarfareSeptember 15, 2010You can’t touch the spectrum, you can’t see the spectrum, and the devices which manipulate the spectrum are a mystery to everyone but technical experts. It is a challenge to explain Electronic Warfare to Members of Congress and even senior officials at the Department of Defense. But controlling the Electromagnetic Spectrum is essential to winning wars and protecting our service members.So I would like to thank CSIS for hosting this conference to help folks here in Washington DC understand Electronic Warfare (EW) and why it is important to control the electromagnetic spectrum. EW, broadly defined, is the fight to control who uses the electromagnetic spectrum, and how they use it. People in my district associate EW with Airborne Electronic Attack – essentially, EA/6B Prowlers and now EA/18G Growlers carrying high-powered jammers to confuse and incapacitate enemy radar systems. As the Representative for Naval Air Station Whidbey Island in Washington State, where the Navy’s Electronic Attack Wing is located, I am a strong advocate for these capabilities.Some folks associate EW with the work of JIEDDO – the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization – which was established during the Iraq war to defeat roadside bombs.But EW is much broader – we use electromagnetic energy in a wide range of offensive and defensive weapons systems including radars on ships, electronic countermeasures on helicopters, and jammers on ground vehicles, to give just a few examples.The most visible and publicized example of EW in the last few years has been the fight against Improvised Explosive Devices in Iraq. Insurgents in Iraq built IEDs which are detonated by simple devices such as cell phones and garage door openers. This was a somewhat basic form of EW but it was a very effective form of EW.As the military struggled to meet this threat, they turned to the Navy, which has maintained the strongest investments in EW technology and personnel since the end of Vietnam. Many Navy Electronic Warfare Officers from my district deployed with the Army and Marine Corps to Iraq and Afghanistan to help control the spectrum, and nearly 250 technical experts at Naval Station Crane are currently working to support Marine Corps and Army jamming programs.This is a success story - we have made great progress in developing and deploying technologies that can defeat IEDs, and this has saved the lives of U.S. troops. Further, our military remains focused on this threat. They have mobilized engineers to stay ahead of the new techniques that insurgents might develop, and the Army is training EW experts to help win the ground EW fight. In my view, the key issue is what happens after the clear and present threat of IEDs fades? What should we be doing to make sure we are focused on spectrum issues moving forward?The Congressional EW Working Group – which I chair along with Rep. Joe Pitts from Pennsylvania - started looking at some of these issues in 2008. We met with representatives from industry, academia, and the military services to learn about what steps the Department of Defense should take to ensure that we continue to control the spectrum long into the future.We published our findings in a report by the Association of Old Crows entitled the “Future of Electronic Warfare.” We recommended that the Department of Defense focus on three key areas:Training/ReadinessTechnologyLeadershipReadiness – EW capabilities are really human capabilities. We need to have a core group of highly-trained individuals to help each service identify threats to the spectrum, develop and deploy solutions to these threats, and perhaps most importantly, to coordinate EW systems in theater to make sure that we control the spectrum during operations. There has been some progress on this issue – the Army has established an EW training school and the Air Force has announced the creation of an F-35 EW squadron. These are new organizations, but they should yield long-term results as more people understand what EW is and why it is important.Investment – During times of war, our men and women in the field realize how important it is to invest in the spectrum, and money pours into EW. But during times of peace, EW is one of the first places that gets cut because it is not as visible as ships, planes, and tanks. It is easier to fight for a ship than an electromagnetic wave.We need to move away from this “feast or famine” mentality. The military needs to continue stable, coordinated investments in EW technologies – even if the overall defense budget is flat or declines in the future.Further, the Department of Defense needs to make sure that it is on the same page with private industry. The EW hardware we are developing today will be around for years if not decades, but commercial technologies that use the spectrum evolve more quickly. The military needs to work with private industry to make sure that we are making the right investments so we can have high quality EW hardware that can be upgraded as threats evolve. Leadership – I think one of the most important steps we can take to improve our ability to control the spectrum is to improve EW leadership – within the military services, at the joint level, and within the Office of the Secretary of Defense. This is not just the view of myself or the EW Working Group – U.S. Strategic Command performed a Capabilities Based Assessment and determined that the lack of unified EW Leadership was the #1 problem facing our military’s ability to control the spectrum. Creating a leadership structure for EW will create a more obvious career path for EW specialists, and high-ranking leaders will have more clout when it comes to setting policy and fighting for resources.At a minimum, I believe that we need to see the following changes in our leadership structure for EW. Each service needs to have a general or flag officer who focuses on EW.There should be a joint military organization to coordinate EW across the services and advocate for the EW budget.DOD should create an EW position within the Office of Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics to make sure that there is appropriate attention on EW within DOD. This type of leadership structure will ensure that as the immediate threat of IEDs fades, senior policymakers will be reminded of the importance of controlling the spectrum.The Department of Defense is focused on the challenges of EW investment, training, and leadership, and is conducting various studies on how it manages EW within the services. The services and DOD are seeking to define the relationship between EW and Information Operations, and they are working create an EW enterprise that can handle the broad challenges of setting policy, researching new technologies, coordinating acquisitions, and training EW experts to deal with both electronic attack and the tough issue of how we use an increasingly congested spectrum ourselves. These studies should help inform the POM-12. As DOD continues to work to improve its EW capabilities and management structure, I am working to raise awareness in Congress about the critical need to control the spectrum. I sponsored an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill that requires the Department of Defense to submit an EW report to Congress each year for the next five years. The law requires the report to include information on the Department’s EW strategy, its EW leadership structure, and the major EW programs that the Department is working on right now. The report was due last February but has not yet been submitted – we are going to continue pressing DOD to get this information to Congress, as required by law, as soon as possible. I have spoken with Chairman Skelton and believe that this report, when submitted, would be a good topic for a hearing early next year.I would like to conclude by talking about Afghanistan. I just returned from a CODEL to Afghanistan where I met with many of our troops and our military and civilian leaders.The demand for EW capabilities in Afghanistan is high from both U.S. Forces and our NATO allies. General Cartwright, during his confirmation hearing last year, noted that a lack of Airborne Electronic Attack was a key deficiency in Afghanistan. To meet that gap, the Navy will buy 26 additional EA/18G Growlers, and they will deploy to Afghanistan in support of the war effort.EW is saving lives in Afghanistan - our EW systems are frustrating to insurgents and forcing them to change their tactics.I think an area for improvement is our cooperation with our allies on EW. We need to continue to focus on making our relationship with NATO more “need to share” and less “need to know” so that we can work more with our partners to defeat insurgent weapons. Cooperation with NATO is critical to our success overall, and I hope that our partners in Europe will step up and dedicate more resources to Afghanistan during the Lisbon conference in November.I would like to end by thanking our host CSIS again and opening up for questions.###
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after meeting with members of the Chinese Ministry of Commerce. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group (USCWG). The USCWG includes 63 Members from the U.S. House of Representatives and focuses on educating Members and staff about the U.S.-China relationship through meetings and briefings with academic, business and political leaders from the United States and China. Larsen represents the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state. China is the largest and most rapidly growing export market for Washington state. One in three jobs in Washington state is tied to trade, and from 2000 - 2009, Washington state exports to China grew by 379 percent.“While China must continue to reform its indigenous innovation and national champion policies, China must also move faster to reform its currency policy. “China's currency policy is hurting U.S.-China trade because it is making products manufactured in the U.S. more expensive to export.“China's currency policy is detrimental to China's economic interests. Revaluation is one of the few tools that China has left in its toolbox to contain rising inflation. “As Secretary Geithner testified today before the Ways and Means Committee, many of China's trading partners are concerned with its currency policy. I urge Secretary Geithner to consider appropriate steps that will press China to continue movement on its currency. ###
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in reaction to reports on the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) interim ruling about whether Boeing received subsidies to fund aircraft construction. “According to reports on today’s interim final ruling, the WTO appears to have rejected most of Airbus’ claims about most of Boeing’s planes.“The EU is trying to pretend that today’s ruling against Boeing is somehow equivalent to the US claim against Airbus. Nothing could be farther from the truth.“The WTO ruled that the EU used billions of dollars in illegal subsidies to aid the development of every single large commercial aircraft Airbus has ever built. The WTO ruling against the US, however, initially appears to confirm only a fraction of the EU’s claims about illegal subsidies provided to Boeing. “Yesterday, I joined with 91 of my colleagues to commend the U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk for his dedication to this case. I urge him to continue fighting to level the playing field for U.S. aerospace workers, and to send a strong message to other countries around the world that it is unacceptable to launch a commercial aircraft industry using government dollars. “I will continue doing everything possible to support Northwest Washington aerospace workers – the best in the world.”###
09.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Don Manzullo (R-IL) sent a bipartisan letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, commending him for his commitment to enforcing the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) ruling that the European government provided illegal subsidies to the aerospace manufacturer Airbus. The letter urges Ambassador Kirk to continue to work to hold the European government accountable by making sure it complies with the WTO’s ruling. The letter was signed by a bipartisan group of over 80 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, including the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over U.S. trade policy, Sander Levin (D-MI) and Dave Camp (R-MI). This letter is the latest of Larsen’s efforts to support the aerospace workers employed by Boeing and suppliers in Northwest Washington.“I will keep fighting to bring attention to the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received and help ensure that American workers can compete on a level playing field,” said Rep. Larsen. The text of the letter follows:September 14, 2010The Honorable Ron KirkUnited States Trade RepresentativeDear Ambassador Kirk: We write to congratulate you on the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) ruling on the matter of European government subsidies to the aerospace manufacturer Airbus. This trade enforcement action will help level the playing field for American companies and protect American aerospace workers from unfair competition.For decades, European governments have provided Airbus with billions of dollars in subsidies, allowing Airbus to undercut its competitors’ prices and seize market share. As a result of these subsidies, thousands of American aerospace workers lost good manufacturing jobs. As you know, in 2004, the Bush Administration, led by U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick, filed a complaint with the WTO alleging that Airbus had received billions in illegal subsidies (later valued in 2006 dollars as worth a staggering $200 billion). On June 30, 2010, the WTO issued a final panel ruling in the case, finding that subsidies granted to Airbus violated international trade law. Specifically, the WTO concluded that European governments provided a "massive" amount of illegal subsidies for the development of every Airbus aircraft model ever built. The WTO also determined that the $4 billion in "launch aid" for the A380 included “prohibited export subsidies” - an even more egregious form of subsidy. All of these subsidies must be withdrawn.Despite this ruling, European officials have indicated that they will continue to provide launch aid for Airbus’ newest jet, the A350. We urge you to continue to work to ensure that European governments come into compliance with WTO rules. The implications of this ruling extend beyond the immediate dispute between European governments and the U.S. The market for large commercial aircraft is forecasted to be more than $3 trillion over the next twenty years. American companies can compete against any rival, but not foreign treasuries. The WTO’s panel ruling sends a strong message that competitors seeking to enter this market must comply with international trade laws and avoid anti-competitive behavior. We commend you and the entire team at the Office the U.S. Trade Representative for your dedication to this case.###
09.10.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in reaction to reports that President Hamid Karzai will limit the involvement of outside participants in the investigation of official corruption in Afghanistan. Larsen returned last week from traveling to Afghanistan as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation that met with U.S. troops, civilian leaders, and high-level officials from both the U.S. and Afghanistan including President Karzai."President Karzai's descision to refuse or limit international help in anti-corruption investigations is a mistake. This decision may undermine the work the international community is doing, in collaboration with the Afghan people, to ensure Afghan security and governance."This is a step in the wrong direction for the ongoing strategic relationship between the U.S. and Afghanistan. President Karzai must take a zero-tolerance stance against corruption to ensure the Taliban is the enemy and not a choice."As President Karzai moves forward with this strategy, he must show the international community that his approach will make progress eliminating corruption in Afghanistan."Larsen recently returned from visiting Afghanistan and was impressed with the high level of morale within U.S. troops and U.S. civilians.###
08.31.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, returned from traveling to Afghanistan as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation that met with U.S. troops, civilian leaders, and high-level officials from both the U.S. and Afghanistan including General David Petraeus and Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai, to discuss the diplomatic, political and security situation in the region. Larsen left Washington state for Afghanistan on Tuesday, August 24 after meeting with local veterans to discuss work he is doing for veterans and learn about the issues facing soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Larsen joined the congressional delegation, which also traveled to other countries in the region, for the Afghanistan segment of the trip. This was Larsen’s third trip to Afghanistan.“I was impressed by the high morale among American troops and civilian officials. It is clear they feel good about the work they are doing in both security operations and economic development. After nine years, the U.S. is finally redirecting its focus from Iraq to getting our troops and civilians in Afghanistan the resources they need to do their job.“The civilian surge in Afghanistan is helping to improve governance and economic development in the region. Two years ago there were 400 civilians from the U.S. and other coalition countries, and now there are expected to be 1,200 civilians by the end of 2010, who are collaborating with local communities to identify projects that will help each region of the country grow and stabilize. This civilian surge finally begins to let us satisfy some of the desires of what American people want us to do: let the Afghan people build their own country.“The U.S. military and civilian officials are working to help Afghanistan take the lead in security operations and economic development. President Karzai and the Afghanistan government must commit to eliminating corruption to prevent any terrorist organization from gaining a foothold again. “Afghanistan was a safe haven for the terrorists who attacked us. We must work with the population of Afghanistan to make the Taliban an enemy and not a choice. “As we move forward, it is time for the U.S. and Afghanistan government to put pen to paper to decide what our strategic relationship will look like in the future. ###
08.24.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, is hosting a number of events in the next two weeks to focus on the issues that matter to local veterans and servicemembers. “The Second District is home to over 75,000 veterans as well as Naval Station Everett and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island, two military installations that are vital to our national security and regional economy,” said Rep. Larsen. “One of my most important responsibilities as a member of Congress is to support our service members, veterans and their families, ensuring that they get the benefits they deserve.”Today, Larsen met with local veterans to listen to their concerns and discuss the work he is doing to ensure that the men and women who served our country get the resources and health care they need and deserve. Larsen also toured the new Community Based Outpatient Clinic in Mount Vernon, a facility that he worked hard to open so health care and services are more accessible for veterans in the 2nd District. The clinic set the goal of enrolling 6,500 veterans within the first 3 years of being open but is well ahead of that goal with 4,619 veterans enrolling for services within the first 14 months of being open. “I worked hard to bring veterans’ health care closer to home by teaming up with local veterans to open the veterans’ clinic in Mount Vernon,” said Rep. Larsen. “Veterans in Northwest Washington fought hard to protect our country and fought hard to make this clinic a reality. I am pleased that so many local veterans are enrolling at this clinic so they no longer have to travel to Seattle to get the health care and services they need and deserve.”Earlier this year, Larsen supported providing much-needed care and benefits to veterans exposed to Agent Orange in Vietnam. The Institute of Medicine ruled that there was enough evidence to link ischemic heart disease, Parkinson’s Disease, and B Cell leukemias to exposure to Agent Orange, which cleared the way for over 80,000 Vietnam vets suffering from these diseases to get the benefits they deserve – and Congress recently approved $13 billion to support these vets as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act.“It has been a long struggle to get benefits to veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange in Vietnam. I supported expanding healthcare and benefits to more men and women exposed to Agent Orange because we have an obligation to take care of veterans who suffer illnesses due to their service to our country,” said Rep. Larsen. Tonight, Larsen will deliver remarks at the Josh Fueston Swim to Live Banquet, an event to honor the memory of Josh Fueston, a local soldier who lost his battle with post-traumatic stress disorder. “Later tonight, I will speak at a memorial banquet for Joshua Fueston, a young soldier who took his own life while undergoing treatment for Post-Traumatic Stress at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. His tragic loss is part of a heart-aching trend. It is clear that we must do a better job diagnosing and treating soldiers and veterans suffering from mental health problems such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder,” said Rep. Larsen. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to providing our men and women in uniform with a high quality of life and the support services they need.”###
08.18.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded today’s announcement by Gary Locke, Secretary of the Department of Commerce, that Washington state will receive over $54 million dollars to enhance broadband services across the state.“Expanding broadband access will create good jobs in our communities and help build a foundation for future economic growth by connecting homes, hospitals, colleges and businesses across Northwest Washington,” said Rep. Larsen. The Second District of Washington state will receive over $4.8 million dollars to expand broadband access in local communities. The funding will help provide infrastructure in unserved and underserved communities like Monroe, Lake Stevens and Snohomish which currently have limited or no access to broadband. The funding will also enable connectivity at local schools, hospitals and libraries and will create over 50 local jobs, according to estimates from the Department of Commerce.“It is critical that we help our local institutions thrive in a 21st century economy,” said Rep. Larsen. “Expanding broadband services to our rural communities will allow them to access information, create new educational opportunities and make the connections they need to grow and thrive in today’s economy.” ###
08.10.2010	Washington, D.C. —Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to save jobs for teachers and help Washington state cover a $312 million budget shortfall by supporting the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. The House of Representatives was called back into session to protect education jobs and provide Medicaid assistance to states to help reduce budget shortfalls. This will help protect 310,000 jobs nationwide – which includes 161,000 teaching positions according to the Department of Education. The House passed the bill by a vote of 247 to 161 and will now be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law.“Today I voted to provide much-needed help to local school districts so they can keep teachers in the classrooms as kids head back to school this fall,” said Rep. Larsen. “I’ve met with school administrators across Northwest Washington who have struggled to keep teachers on the payroll during these tough economic times. The National Education Association estimates that this critical funding will help save 408 education jobs in my district.” “We are grateful to Congressman Larsen and other legislators who have been such strong supporters of education,” said Dr. Gary Cohn, Superintendent of the Everett Public Schools. “Federal approval of these funds is a turn in the right direction to help hold back what have been annual education funding cuts for districts around the state. Last year, funding provided by Congress protected as many as 50 teaching positions right here in Everett – more than an entire elementary school staff.”“Mount Baker School District and most districts in the state have been making budget cuts and reducing programs for several years. This downward trend has had an unfortunate impact on children,” said Dr. Rick Gantman, Superintendent of Mt. Baker School District. “The Education Jobs Act will help us maintain our service to children, keep high quality educators for our students and continue our improvement efforts.”“When kids walk back to into their classrooms this fall, I want to make sure their favorite teachers are there waiting for them so they can get the high quality education they deserve,” said Rep. Larsen. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act will provide a much-needed $546 million for Washington state, including $208 million to fund education jobs, according to the Department of Education, and $338 million for Medicaid assistance, according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. This funding will help Washington state cover a $312 million shortfall in the state budget. Without this funding, the Governor predicts that Washington state would have faced a 3.6 percent across the board spending cut for state programs. “I commend Governor Gregoire and the Washington state Legislature for their commitment to making tough choices and passing a balanced budget,” said Rep. Larsen. “This much-needed funding will help cover the shortfall in the state budget so we can avoid the layoffs of workers and cuts to critical services in our state.”This bill is fully paid for and will reduce the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. ###
08.02.2010	Testing
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), voted to respond to the crisis in the Gulf and increase safety regulations to help prevent future spills. The CLEAR Act will create new safety measures, hold the oil industry full responsible for the cleanup costs of the BP spill, and strengthen oversight of the oil drilling industry.“The Deepwater Horizon oil spill revealed many shortcomings in our oil spill pollution and response laws. “Today’s vote on the CLEAR Act is an important step towards strengthening our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. The CLEAR Act contains three critical provisions for which I have advocated. “This legislation will hold oil companies accountable for 100% of the cost of cleaning up their mess, and every penny of the economic damages they cause to Americans. The current liability cap of $75 million has proven to be grossly inadequate to cover the damage caused by a major offshore oil spill. “Immediately following the spill, President Obama and Secretary Salazar took immediate steps to reform the troubled Minerals Management Service (MMS). This legislation codifies those changes to prevent conflicts of interest. “The CLEAR Act increases safety regulations for offshore drilling. It imposes stronger oversight on well designs, including blowout preventers and requires a third party to certify safety plans. These safety measures will reduce the risk of a catastrophic spill.“As a representative from the Puget Sound, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I want to do everything possible to prevent an oil spill from occurring in Puget Sound and other areas of the country."I am committed to continuing to investigate the impacts of this massive environmental disaster and examine the best ways to ensure any future offshore drilling will live up to oil companies’ claims of safety and reliability. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on Tony Hayward, CEO of BP, to forgo the $10 billion tax credit they will receive for their oil clean up work. Larsen joined other Members of Congress in signing a letter to Hayward, urging him to take responsibility for the spill and reconsider accepting this money. Larsen is a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure which has jurisdiction over our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws, such as the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Larsen has been a member of this committee since 2001. Larsen recently cosponsored H.R. 5905, legislation that will revise our current laws to prohibit oil companies from deducting oil spill cleanup costs from income for tax purposes.“It is unacceptable for BP to stick the American people with a $10 billion bill for the cost of this oil spill clean up. BP needs to shoulder the blame for this environmental catastrophe and fully cover the cost of the clean up.“I urge BP to reconsider accepting this handout from the American taxpayers and pay for the damage to our environment and the families and businesses on the Gulf Coast. “I am committed to revising our current laws to make it clear that oil companies are fully responsible for any spills or leaks they cause.The full text of the letter follows: Dear Mr. Hayward, The April 22, 2010, explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the continuing oil spill will have repercussions in the Gulf region for decades for the families and communities along the coast. We greatly appreciate the efforts of your corporation to stop the flow of oil and help mitigate damage, but the recent announcement of your plan to take more than $10 billion from American taxpayers is reprehensible. We strongly urge you to forgo this enormous tax credit and accept responsibility for this disaster. The Gulf Coast is facing one of the largest economic and environmental disasters in history; the effects of this catastrophe will be felt for generations. With no way of knowing what the future holds, the last thing these communities should face is a tax bill to fund your remediation work. American taxpayers do not want to subsidize your failure with a $10 billion bailout. In the United States, BP has received subsidies to search for oil, to drill for oil, and to operate and lease the Deepwater Horizon. Further, BP enjoys some of the world’s lowest tax rates on oils sales in the United States. Now, your corporation believes it is owed a credit to cover more than $10 billion in expenses incurred by its failure that might be the ruin of our Gulf coast. We strongly urge you to reconsider using the U.S. tax code to take a handout from the American people, forcing everyone to pay for your damage to our businesses, our environment, and our communities. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke to the importance of making Section 214 permanent at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of the Water Resources Development Act of 2010. Section 214 of the Water Resources Development Act of 2000 allows local governments to fund additional U.S. Army Corps of Engineers staff time to expedite the processing of permits for infrastructure and ecosystem restoration projects. The bill considered by the Committee extended the Section 214 program until 2016, but Larsen proposed an amendment to make the program permanent."In a region where we must balance the most difficult environmental issues in the country with the second highest commerce and trade demands of any region in the nation, Section 214 has become key to overcoming permitting delay," Larsen said. "It is long past time to make the Section 214 program permanent." Larsen withdrew his amendment after getting a commitment from Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar to work together on making Section 214 permanent. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the release of the Army’s Health Promotion, Risk Reduction, Suicide Prevention report. The Army, led by General Peter Chiarelli, conducted this study over the course of the last 15 months to help understand the alarming rate of suicides and high risk behavior in the service. The study also recommends a path forward to lower the number of suicides committed by service members.“This report is heart aching and sobering. My thoughts and prayers go out to military families and communities in my district and across the nation that have lost loved ones to suicide.”“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to providing our men and women in uniform with a high quality of life and the support services they need. Most observers will focus on the number of suicides in the Army, but I think it is most important to focus on what the Army is doing to prevent suicides, offer help to soldiers and promote resiliency in the force. The full study can be read here. ###
07.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent the following letter to the Missile Defense Agency, expressing his views on the Sea-Based X-Band Radar (SBX) Radar Vessel Maintenance and Repair Environmental Assessment. The SBX is currently based in Adak, AK. The Missile Defense Agency must conduct maintenance on the SBX’s propulsion system in order to keep the vessel operational. Naval Station Everett is one of three deep-water West Coast ports that are equipped to handle this maintenance, and the Missile Defense Agency and the Navy are conducting an environmental assessment to determine where this maintenance should take place. The text of the letter follows: Mr. David Hasley Deputy Chief of Staff, Engineer U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command Dear Mr. Hasley: I am writing to express my views on the Sea-Based X-Band Radar (SBX) Radar Vessel Maintenance and Repair Environmental Assessment. I recognize that the SBX is vital to our national security, and that certain maintenance to this platform can only be performed at three deepwater facilities in the U.S. Further, SBX maintenance will provide a significant economic boost at a time when our economy is struggling and unemployment remains high. However, Naval Station Everett was planned and built to support nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and surface combatants, and community members have raised meritorious concerns regarding the SBX’s effect on the environment and the core missions of the base. I believe that SBX maintenance should only be performed at Everett if the following conditions are met: The time period for maintenance should be limited in nature; The SBX radar should not be operational while under maintenance; The maintenance period should not interfere with Naval Station Everett’s core missions or limit existing ships’ access to piers; The US Navy and Missile Defense Agency should conduct a thorough community outreach effort in order to understand fully the community’s views and concerns; Under no circumstance should Naval Station Everett be considered as a permanent homeport for SBX. Thank you for your consideration of my views. Sincerely, Rick Larsen
07.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured $ 650,000 to help fund the final phase of the Lighthouse Point Water Reclamation Facility. The project will improve the local quality of life by enhancing water quality, restoring shellfish beds and tribal resources and providing infrastructure to serve new customers and economic growth in the local area. The project will affect all residents in the Drayton Harbor/Birch Point area and will enhance community growth and aquaculture, a historical part of this community and tribal heritage. The final phase of the project will abandon the existing treatment plant and redirect sewage flow to the new treatment plant by constructing new pumping and conveyance facilities. This funding was included in subcommittee markup of the FY2011 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill and now must be voted on by the full Appropriations Committee.“This funding will help complete the construction of a state-of-the-art wastewater treatment plant for the City of Blaine,” said Rep. Larsen. “This long awaited facility will improve local infrastructure in the community and spur economic growth in the region.” “This project started ten years ago after we had to stop our sewer expansion project because we unearthed significant cultural remains. That was about the time the Congressman Larsen took office. At that time, he made our project a high priority and has stayed involved for a decade. We cannot say how appreciative we are of him and the Department of Interior's Rural Development program for their help,” said Gary Tomsic, City Manager for the City of Blaine. ###
07.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured $1 million to purchase conservation easements on hundreds of acres of farmland within Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve. This funding was included in the FY2011 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill and matches the amount President Obama included in his budget. It now must be voted on by the full House.“Ebey’s Landing is one of Washington state’s natural and historical treasures and a vital resource for the community,” said Rep. Larsen. “This funding will help ensure that farmers can keep good agricultural land in production and families can enjoy access to scenic trails and views for years to come.” Ebey’s Landing was created by Congress in 1978 to protect the “cultural landscape” of Coupeville and central Whidbey Island. This funding will be used to purchase conservation easements on land that is vulnerable to commercial development. Most of Ebey’s Landing is owned by private citizens, but public access is guaranteed by easements owned by the National Parks Service and conservation organizations. The land is widely used for farming, harvesting forests and recreation. Historic buildings on Ebey’s Landing continue to be used as homes and businesses.“Preserving the unique character of Ebey’s Landing for future generations requires the support of the whole community, from local farmers to small businesses to our elected representatives,” said Mark Preiss, Reserve Manager at Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve. “I thank Congressman Larsen for his effective advocacy to secure funding that will protect hundreds of acres of working farmland and preserve public access to Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve.” ###
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to improve funding for schools in military and tribal communities—including Oak Harbor, Ferndale, Marysville. This funding is designated for school districts that educate a significant number of federally connected children through the Impact Aid program.“Impact Aid funding is never guaranteed, often not paid in full, and rarely paid in a timely manner. My legislation would require the Department of Education to fully reimburse Impact Aid school districts in a timely manner to help remove the guess work when they create their budgets,” Rep. Larsen said. "Teachers, students and their families are the ones who suffer as a result. That is unfair and I am working to ensure schools get the help they need when they need it."“Congressman Larsen’s legislation will go a long way toward relieving financial uncertainty for school districts with a high number of military dependents,” said Oak Harbor Superintendent Rick Schulte. “About 54 percent of Oak Harbor students have at least one parent who is active-duty military.” “It will take the guesswork out of predicting whether we will or will not get a needed payment three, four, five or even six years after Congress allocated the money,” Schulte said. “If we know the money is going to be there, it can make the difference whether we lay off teachers or not – and that directly impacts the students.” Public schools are required by law to accept all children from military families, Indian reservations or other federal establishments. Families in federal housing, however, do not pay local property taxes on this land, denying local schools of their traditional funding source. This puts a severe financial burden on school districts that educate a significant number of federally connected children, diminishing the overall quality of education, and increasing the funding burden on local taxpayers."Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to protect our country. The least we can do is ensure a quality education for their children," Larsen said. ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to help small manufacturers export their products- not their jobs- overseas. The global market presents a fast and ever growing market for U.S. exports. Nearly 3.7 million – or 27 percent- of manufacturing jobs are supported by exports. In Rep Larsen’s district alone there are 192 aerospace production suppliers and other vendors, and in Washington state there are over 100 boat manufacturers-many of which are small businesses exporting their products. However, most U.S. small and medium sized manufacturers are dissuaded from entering the global market place due to financial roadblocks, conflicting information, Intellectual Property Rights infringements and cultural differences. The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will build the infrastructure necessary to help these American Small and Medium Sized Businesses access export opportunities around the world.“I want to see ‘Made in America’ again and this bill is an important step in that direction,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will help connect small and medium sized manufacturers with the tools and resources they need to access export opportunities around the world so they can ship their products- not their jobs- overseas.” The Small Manufacturers Export Initiative will provide resources to the Department of Commerce to assist manufacturers in finding and developing new markets for their products. These funds are projected to help create over 9,000 jobs. It also authorizes funds to be used by the Hollings Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) to expand the ExporTech program which helps manufacturing companies with the mechanics of exporting. The Department of Commerce projects the return on investment for the ExporTech program is 100:1.“Impact Washington is pleased to enthusiastically endorse this bill. The ExporTech program, which was developed as a joint program between the Manufacturing Extension Partnership and the U.S. Commercial Services, has already shown tremendous success here in Washington State and nationwide in assisting small and medium-sized manufacturers to rapidly enter and expand into global markets. It is a proven program that has the potential to be a crucial tool in significantly increasing U.S. exports,” said John Vicklund, President of Impact Washington (formerly Washington Manufacturing Services), a non-profit organization that strengthens Washington manufacturers to make them more globally competitive.“As a small business owner, I applaud Rep. Larsen’s efforts to improve the infrastructure for small manufacturers who would like to begin exporting or increase their export sales,” said Elric Saaski, CEO of Research International. “Washington State has a foreign trade assistance program, and it has been very helpful to us. A program of that type but national in scale, would be of great help to small businesses such as ours who are attempting to compete and sell products in international markets.”“While the benefits of exporting are many, especially in these turbulent economic times, the initial hurdles of entering this new market place can be intimidating and beyond the capabilities of many companies. This is a perfect area for our local, state and federal governments to assist business in becoming established in the global market,” said Steven Becker, CEO of Aquatic Life Sciences Inc. ###
07.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to extend unemployment insurance benefits to millions of jobless Americans. The Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 4213) will extend the Emergency Unemployment Compensation and Extended Benefits program through November 30, 2010. It will also retroactively restore benefits to people who started losing benefits as early as the end of May. This bill will now go to the President’s desk to be signed into law.“There are over 30,000 mothers and fathers, sons and daughters in Northwest Washington who lost their job through no fault of their own and are using unemployment insurance to make ends meet,” said Rep. Larsen. “Today I voted to extend unemployment benefits that will help these folks pay their bills as they continue to look for work. Restoring their benefits will also put dollars right back into our local economy as they use the money to buy food and fill their cars with gas.” Extending unemployment benefits is not only good for the unemployed; it is also one of the best and fastest ways to stimulate the economy, according to analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Unemployment benefits were responsible for creating more than 1 million jobs since the recession started, and adding almost 2 percent to the gross domestic product according to the Economic Policy Institute. Every dollar in unemployment benefits creates $1.61 in economic activity, according to Economist and former John McCain advisor, Mark Zandi. ###
07.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured $500,000 for Senior Services of Snohomish County to improve the quality of life for seniors and people with disabilities in the community. This funding will help construct a new 35,000 square foot Service Delivery Facility that will accommodate all of its service programs under one roof. This investment will help Senior Services construct and purchase equipment for the new facility. This funding was included in the FY2011 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill. It must now be voted on by the full House before it can be signed into law.“Senior Services of Snohomish County is doing important work to improve the quality of life for our local seniors, people with disabilities and their families,” said Rep. Larsen. “This funding to help construct and purchase equipment for a new Service Delivery Facility will help Senior Services provide meals, housing and transportation to seniors and people with disabilities in Snohomish County.” “Congressman Larsen has been a longtime supporter of senior issues. We appreciate his support for securing this investment, for the Center and for healthy aging. This funding is vital to the success of our project,” said Dave Earling, President of the Board of Directors for Senior Services of Snohomish County. ###
07.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured $230,000 for improvements at the Friday Harbor Ferry Terminal. This investment will improve pedestrian safety and circulation, ferry loading and offloading efficiency and schedule reliability at the ferry terminal. Pedestrians are currently crossing Front Street and Spring Street near the ferry terminal in an uncontrolled manner that creates conflicts with vehicle loading and offloading operations.“Washington state residents depend on the largest ferry system in the country to keep our economy moving,” said Rep. Larsen. “This investment will make the Friday Harbor Ferry Terminal safer and more efficient for both the folks who rely on the ferry to commute between home and work and for visitors who use the ferry system to tour our beautiful region.” ###
07.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray announced that they secured $1.137 million to fund the Army Corps of Engineers study on Skagit River flooding. This funding will help complete the Skagit River General Investigation Study (GI) to determine which flood control projects will best protect citizens and infrastructure from a 100 year flood of the Skagit River. Larsen secured this funding through the FY 2011 House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee bill and Murray secured it through the Senate’s version of the funding bill. The full Appropriations Committee in both chambers must now approve the legislation before it is voted on by the full House and Senate. “Folks in Skagit County need help protecting their homes, farms and businesses from the devastation of future floods,” said Representative Rick Larsen. “This funding is the boost needed to propel the GI toward project design and study completion so we can begin constructing the critical flood control projects that will help prevent flooding and reduce the risk to lives and property in the Skagit Valley. I thank Senator Murray for her commitment to securing this essential funding for the Skagit Valley community.”“This investment is a crucial piece of our effort to give Skagit County families the flood protection and peace of mind they deserve,” said Senator Patty Murray. “I was proud to work closely with Rep. Larsen to secure this funding for Skagit County. And I am going to continue working with the Skagit Valley community to make sure they have the resources they need to keep their families, homes, and businesses safe.”“We really appreciate Congressman Rick Larsen, Senator Patty Murray and Senator Maria Cantwell for going the extra mile to acquire this funding in these trying economic times. We also thank our project management team at the Corps of Engineers, and our local partners for their support,” said Skagit County Commissioner Ken Dahlstedt. “This level of funding allows us to complete the General Investigation in a timely manner and protect our citizens and infrastructure from the devastation of large flood events on the Skagit River.” This funding will provide for the maximum amount of work that can be completed by the Corps of Engineers in Fiscal Year 2011 and will be the boost needed to propel the GI out of the data gathering stage and closer to project design and study completion. This is the largest amount of funding to ever be secured for this project by Congress. ###
07.15.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to help families in Skagit County afford the cost of protecting their homes from flooding. The Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act will extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years and reform the program by expanding coverage and providing homeowners with more control over their insurance. This bill will help families in Skagit County by protecting homes that are in newly designated flood plains as a result of new Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) rate maps. The legislation stipulates that homeowners in these areas will be exempt from paying for flood insurance for the first five years and will be phased into flood insurance rates over the following five years.“Skagit County families, farms and businesses need all the help they can get to afford the cost of protecting their property from floods,” said Rep. Larsen. “Today I voted to provide financial relief to homeowners in newly designated flood plains.” This bill also establishes an Office of the Flood Insurance Advocate which will be available to assist communities with new FEMA rate maps.“By establishing an Office of the Flood Insurance Advocate, we are ensuring that our communities will receive the help they need to protect their homes from floods,” said Rep. Larsen. More than five million homes and businesses currently rely on the NFIP, which is the primary source of reliable and affordable flood insurance coverage. This bill secures the long-term viability of the program by encouraging participation, increasing financial accountability, and eliminating unnecessary premium subsidies. This reform bill updates the NFIP, established over 40 years ago, to meet the needs of the 21st century. It raises maximum coverage limits for the first time since 1994, providing a stronger safety net for families threatened by flooding. The bill also provides families with greater flexibility and options, by allowing them to pay for flood insurance in installments, creating the office of the Flood Insurance Advocate to protect and assist policyholders, and delaying the mandatory requirement to purchase insurance for five years in areas only recently declared as a flood zone. ###
07.15.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), praised the Senate for passing legislation that will protect consumers by reining in Wall Street and ending the era of taxpayer bailouts of big banks. This legislation will now go to the President to be signed into law.“I applaud the Senate for passing Wall Street Reform so we can send it to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Wall Street Reform will end the era of taxpayer bailouts so that if in the future a hedge fund, trading firm, or investment bank wants to drive off a cliff, the American people will no longer be trapped in the passenger seat.“Nearly 100,000 people across Northwest Washington lost their homes or retirement savings, through no fault of their own, because bigger banks on Wall Street made a buck at their expense. Wall Street Reform will restore financial security for hardworking families and small businesses on Main Street by cracking down on bigger banks on Wall Street.“Taxpayers will no longer be held responsible for the irresponsible actions of Wall Street. ###
07.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) received the “Outstanding Legislator” Award from the Northwest Senior Services Board in recognition of his work supporting seniors and their families in Northwest Washington.“It is an honor to receive the award for ‘Outstanding Legislator’ from the Northwest Senior Services Board,” said Rick Larsen. “I am working hard to support Washington state seniors by strengthening Medicare and helping them afford the high cost of prescription drugs.” Text of Letter from the Northwest Senior Services Board: Northwest Senior Services Board Advisory Board to the Northwest Regional Council,Area Agency on Aging for Island, San Juan, Skagit and Whatcom Counties June 4, 2010 Congressman Rick Larsen US House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Representative Larsen: The Northwest Senior Services Board is pleased to honor you with its “Outstanding Legislator” Award for 2010, for your exceptional leadership supporting seniors and their families through your work in the US Congress. Your efforts on issues important to seniors in the current session of Congress are typical of the commitment you have shown over many years. You have shown leadership advocating for resources to serve seniors, particularly through advocacy for adequate Older Americans Act funding; You have worked to strengthen Medicare in many ways, most recently through the improvements in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; You have worked diligently over many years to address Medicare payment disparities that hurt Washington State. These represent only a few of the actions you have taken as a strong advocate for our seniors and their families. We appreciate, for example, your efforts in securing the VA Community-Based Outpatient Clinic in Mount Vernon, which is a key resource for the many senior veterans of our northwest Washington counties. You have always shown that you understand that for seniors and their families, “There’s No Place Like Home”. We know that you will continue to work diligently for policies that support our seniors and their families, and that help them live as independently as possible, for as long as possible, in their own homes. Thank you, Representative Larsen, from the Northwest Senior Services Board, and seniors and their families in Northwest Washington. Sincerely, Gilbert Thurston Chair Northwest Senior Services Board/Northwest Regional Council ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to support local school districts avoid layoffs of teachers and help families afford sky-rocketing college tuition payments. Larsen supported an amendment to the 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act that makes key investments in protecting jobs for teachers and funding for Pell Grants which provide need-based grants for low-income students.“School districts are struggling to retain teachers during these tough economic times,” said Rep. Larsen. “I voted to prevent impending layoffs and help teachers keep their jobs so children in Washington state can get the high quality education that they deserve.”“Investing in student loans will provide much-needed financial relief to families who can not afford sky-rocketing tuition payments,” said Rep. Larsen. “It is critical that we provide the next generation with the tools they need to attend college and get career training so they can secure good jobs after graduation.” ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for legislation that strengthens border security and provides border personnel with the tools they need to keep our communities safe.“Drugs entering the U.S. from Mexico pose a significant threat to communities on both sides of the border and place an enormous strain on local law enforcement agencies within the United States, including the communities in my district. Many of these drugs are smuggled into Washington state leading to violence and drug use. Today I voted to provide more than $700 million to protect our southwest border and take critical steps to eliminate violence. We must equip our border personnel with the tools they need to keep our communities safe.“This bill places an additional 1,200 Customs and Border Protection to inspect ports of entry along the southwest border to help eliminate Mexican Drug Cartels from transporting methamphetamine, cocaine, and heroin into the United States. “This bill provides funding for unmanned aerial vehicles that will help ensure Border Patrol agents have the tools they need to bring dangerous criminals to justice, improve law enforcement capabilities along the Southwest Border, and keep our communities safe." ###
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for legislation which provides funding for our troops in Afghanistan and includes over $13 billion to improve care for veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange in Vietnam. Earlier this year, Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki certified that Parkinson's disease, ischemic heart disease and B-cell leukemias are linked to exposure to Agent Orange, eliminating bureaucratic hurdles for veterans with these illnesses seeking care from the VA.“We have an obligation to take care of veterans who suffer illnesses due to their service to our country,” said Rep. Larsen. “Tonight’s vote brings us one step closer to getting veterans exposed to Agent Orange the care they need.” Vietnam veterans who suffer from these diseases are encouraged to visit https://www.publichealth.va.gov/exposures/agentorange/ for further information.
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to revise current oil spill pollution and response laws to respond to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and help prevent a similar tragedy from happening in the future. Today, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure voted to advance the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act of 2010, which included several provisions that Larsen called for in a letter he sent to the Chairman of the Committee on June 16. Larsen is a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure which has jurisdiction over our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws, such as the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Larsen has been a member of this committee since 2001.“The Deepwater Horizon oil spill continues to wreak havoc in the Gulf of Mexico. After numerous attempts by BP to stop and control the spill, it is estimated that the flow rate is still between 35,000-60,000 barrels a day. “In the wake of this environmental catastrophe, it is clear that there are many shortcomings in our current oil spill pollution and response laws. “Today, I voted to strengthen our oil spill pollution and response laws so we can better respond to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill and help prevent another tragedy like this from happening in the future.“I am pleased the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act of 2010 includes several provisions that I called for, including measures that will ensure oil companies are fully responsible for any spills or leaks they cause. This bill will lift the liability caps in the Oil Pollution Act in order to match the potential magnitude of spills and leaks. “We must hold the oil companies–not taxpayers- accountable for the costs of cleanup.“Today’s vote is an important step towards strengthening our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. I am committed to continuing to investigate the impacts of this massive environmental disaster and examining the best ways to ensure any future offshore drilling will live up to oil companies’ claims of safety and reliability. ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to send Wall Street Reform to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 237 to 192 and now awaits action by the U.S. Senate.“Today, I voted to protect hardworking families and small businesses on Main Street by creating common sense regulations for Wall Street. “For too long, federal regulators were asleep at the switch as bigger banks on Wall Street played games with our economic security. As a result, our country faced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Today, I voted to send comprehensive Wall Street Reform to the President’s desk to be signed into law so that we can prevent another financial crisis from happening again. “Nearly 100,000 people in Northwest Washington lost their homes or retirement savings, through no fault of their own, because bigger banks on Wall Street played with their futures by selling risky financial products. Small businesses in our community have been forced to shut their doors because big banks put big profits and big bonuses ahead of your financial security. “This Wall Street Reform bill restores financial security for families and small businesses on Main Street by imposing strong oversight of Wall Street. No longer will taxpayers be held responsible for irresponsible actions of a few. This Wall Street Reform legislation includes provisions that will:Protect Consumers and Small Businesses on Main Street Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Wall Street Reform protects consumers from financial industry abuse. A new independent watchdog group has the authority to stop deceptive terms and hidden fees in bank loans, mortgages, and credit card contracts. It sets up a national complaint hotline so consumers can report abusive practices. Mortgage Reform Wall Street Reform ends deceptive lending practices that led to the subprime mortgage crisis. It ensures that mortgages are available only to those who can afford them. Families facing unemployment due to the economic collapse receive additional mortgage help. Interchange Fees This bill requires fees charged to small businesses by credit card companies for debit card transactions to be proportional to the cost of processing these transactions. Some small businesses claim these fees are currently too high. Create Common-Sense Regulations for Wall Street Ends the Era of Too Big to Fail Wall Street Reform ends the Era of Big Bank Bailouts. In the future, if a hedge fund, trading firm, or investment bank wants to drive off a cliff, the American people are no longer trapped in passenger seat. The bill ensures taxpayers will never again be footing the bill for the reckless behavior of big banks on Wall Street. It puts new rules in place for the liquidation of failing firms that require the financial industry, not the taxpayers, to pay for their mistakes. Executive Compensation Consumers suffered as Wall Street executives put the interests of big profits and big bonuses ahead of working families. This bill gives shareholders a vote on executive pay and golden parachutes and prevents the practice of using deceptive financial statements to reap big bonuses in the short term. Derivatives Wall Street Reform places tough new rules on the riskiest financial practices that caused the financial crash, like the credit default swaps that devastated AIG. High-risk financial products like derivatives must be traded in a regulated market with appropriate controls so that irresponsible practices and excessive risk-taking no longer escape regulatory oversight. Volcker Rule Wall Street Reform prevents the financial industry from playing games with consumers’ money and jeopardizing their retirement with high-risk financial products. This legislation includes the “Volcker Rule” to prevent banks from using consumers’ deposits on high-risk, speculative behavior that is not in their best interests. Long term risk Wall Street Reform establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify future risks in our financial system and address them before they threaten our economic stability. ###
06.30.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) final ruling on illegal subsidies for Airbus. Larsen also sent a letter to the Secretary of Defense, urging the Department of Defense to consider the multibillion dollar illegal launch aid subsidies given to EADS by the European Union and end the delays in the tanker competition. Larsen was a co-sponsor of an amendment, passed by the U.S. House of Representatives, that requires the Department of Defense to take into account the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments when it awards a contract for the next generation of aerial refueling tankers.“The jury is back and the verdict is in: the European Union is guilty of providing Airbus with billions of dollars in illegal subsidies. The WTO ruling is clear – the EU’s illegal subsidies have directly harmed American workers.“The WTO ruling must be the final nail in the coffin of Launch Aid. Airbus needs to cut off its illegal subsidies for the A350 immediately and try to develop planes the old-fashioned way: using private capital with market interest rates.“Now that the WTO ruling is out in the open, the Department of Defense needs to consider the impact of these illegal subsidies on the tanker competition. A fair, open, and transparent competition means taking into account the fact that the A330 benefited from billions in illegal subsidies.“Washington aerospace workers are the best in the world and I will continue to fight to ensure that they are allowed to compete on a level playing field.“I commend both the Obama and Bush Administrations for their work on this case. I urge the Obama Administration to continue pursuing this case aggressively. Text of Letter sent to Secretary Gates follows: June 30, 2010 The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary Department of Defense The Pentagon, Room 3E880 Washington, DC 20301 - 1000 Dear Secretary Gates: We have written in the past to express our profound disappointment at the failure of the Air Force to consider the multibillion dollar illegal launch aid subsidies given to EADS by the European Union. These subsidies caused serious and ongoing distortion in the global market for large aircraft, causing substantial harm to the American aerospace industry. We are concerned that illegal subsidies will distort the KC-X competition unless action is taken by the Air Force to create a level playing field by acknowledging the existence of these subsidies and taking steps to nullify the advantage they have given EADS. Giving appropriate and due consideration to these bid distorting subsidies in determining whom to award the contract will ensure a fair, open and transparent competition. Our concern is shared by an overwhelming majority of the House of Representatives. On May 27th, the House passed by a vote of 410 to 8 an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act requiring that the Department of Defense consider any unfair competitive advantage an offer or may possess in the KC-X aerial refueling tanker competition. With the vote taken on May 27th, the House of Representatives said that the KC-X contract has to be fair. A contract awarded without consideration of Airbus’ illegal subsidies would be deeply flawed. We ask that you quickly begin the process of ascertaining the extent to which the illegal subsidies have given EADS an unfair competitive advantage. We also ask that you quickly take steps to neutralize such unfair competitive advantage, in order that the tanker competition can proceed and a contract can be awarded without delays. We look forward to working with you. Very truly yours, Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
06.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement after a joint House-Senate conference committee completed its work on Wall Street Reform. The bill will now be voted on by both the House and Senate.“Nearly 100,000 hardworking folks in Northwest Washington lost their homes or retirement savings, through no fault of their own, because Big Banks on Wall Street played with their futures by selling risky financial products.“We need Wall Street Reform to end the Era of Big Bank Bailouts so that if in the future, Wall Street decides to drive off a cliff, the American people will no longer be in the passenger seat. “We must act to protect the financial security of hardworking families and small businesses on Main Street. “I look forward to reviewing this bill before it comes to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote. ###
06.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement in reaction to the President’s decision to change commanders in Afghanistan.“I respect General McChrystal for his years of service to our nation. His success in Iraq showed his capabilities as a great solider and leader. He was a successful practitioner and proponent of counterinsurgency, a strategy which he and the President both agree is the right strategy in Afghanistan.“However, he created a command environment that undermines our time-honored and constitutionally prescribed civilian-military relationship.“While this situation is regrettable, President Obama made the right decision, one that is his to make as our Commander in Chief, to relieve General McChrystal of his command. This incident was detracting from the difficult work that our men and women in uniform are doing in Afghanistan. “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, my first priority is taking care of the men and women in our military so they can keep our country safe. I believe President Obama made the right decision for our troops and our national security. “We need to move forward and stay focused on achieving stability in Afghanistan and defeating Al Qaeda. ###
06.17.2010	Washington, D.C. — Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to increase lending to small businesses so they can create jobs in Northwest Washington. The Small Businesses Job and Credit Act will help community banks provide much-needed capital to local small businesses.“I have spent hours walking the Main Streets of our communities talking to small business owners who are still fighting their way out of this economic crisis,” said Rep. Larsen. “Small businesses are the number one source of new job growth in this country, but the credit crunch has prevented them from accessing the capital they need to grow and create jobs.” “Our nation’s community banks play a vital role in small business lending, but the financial crisis has hamstrung their ability to make those loans,” said Rep. Larsen. “This bill will help community banks provide much-needed capital to local small businesses so they can access the tools and resources they need to grow and start hiring again.” This legislation establishes a $30 billion lending fund which uses performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that the funds go to American small businesses. The fund is full paid for and will save taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten year. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act also offers tax incentives to spur investments in American small businesses. These reforms will lower the capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. ###
06.17.2010	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) sent the following letter to the Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure calling for changes to the current oil spill pollution and response laws. The House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has jurisdiction over our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws, such as the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Larsen has been a member of this committee since 2001.“This Deepwater Horizon oil spill is the worst environmental catastrophe that our nation has ever faced. It raises significant concerns regarding the future of offshore drilling in the United States.“As federal agencies work to contain and clean up this spill, it is clear that our current regulations and safety standards for offshore drilling need serious scrutiny and improvement. “We need to ensure that any future offshore drilling will live up to oil companies’ claims of safety and reliability. “This week, I called for major revisions to our current oil spill pollution and response laws, which, in the wake of this catastrophe, are proving to be horribly inadequate.“First, our laws should make it clear that oil companies are fully responsible for any spills or leaks they cause. Congress must act to lift the liability caps in the Oil Pollution Act in order to match the potential magnitude of spills and leaks. “Second, the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund must be replenished and the per barrel fee raised to match the increased hazard of deep sea drilling.“I am committed to investigating the impacts of this massive environmental disaster and examining the best ways to strengthen our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. “As a representative from the Puget Sound, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I want to do everything possible to prevent an oil spill from occurring in Puget Sound and other areas of the country.“I join my Washington state colleagues in cosponsoring legislation to ban drilling off the coast of our state and other states on the Pacific Coast. The ‘drill here, drill now’ mantra should not apply to the Washington state coast or the Puget Sound. The Deepwater Horizon disaster has made the waters of the Gulf murkier and need for a ban on West Coast drilling clearer. The text of the letter follows: June 16, 2010 Dear Chairman Oberstar and Chairman Cummings: The Deepwater Horizon oil spill is a major human and environmental disaster of potentially unprecedented proportions. As the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has held hearings on the spill, it has become clear to me that our nation’s current oil spill pollution and response laws are inadequate to address a major offshore oil spill. I am encouraged that the Committee plans to mark up a bill to address these shortcomings. As you develop legislation to respond to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, I encourage your consideration of the following policy changes: Raise the $75 million cap for natural resource damages caused by an oil spill from an offshore facility. The current liability cap for offshore facilities in the Oil Pollution Act (OPA) has proven to be grossly inadequate to cover the damage caused by a major offshore oil spill. I urge you to raise the cap to a level that matches the potential magnitude of spills and encourages oil companies to better internalize the risk of an oil disaster. Significantly increase the per-barrel tax to match the increased hazard of deep sea drilling. The current per-barrel tax does not support an Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund that is large enough to cover the costs of responding to a medium-sized spill, let alone a massive spill like what is occurring in the Gulf. Unfortunately, we cannot assume that every oil company will be able to cover all costs of a major spill. Therefore it is essential to significantly increase the size of the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. I also encourage you to raise the per incident caps and eliminate the 2017 sunset on the per-barrel tax. Raise the financial responsibility requirement to reflect the high costs of cleaning up large spills. Under OPA, offshore facilities are not required to demonstrate their financial capability to meet liabilities exceeding $150 million, even though they are liable for all clean up costs and up to $75 million in damages. Oil companies must prove they are fully able to pay for any spills or leaks they cause. Leave the current vessel liability framework in place. The current vessel liability framework under OPA has proven effective in covering the cost of responding to spills and leaks. There are clear limits to the amount of oil that can be discharged from a tank vessel, and the current liability framework recognizes this fact. There is no need to punish tugboat and barge operators, commercial fisherman and other vessel owners for BP’s mistakes. I also understand that Speaker Pelosi has asked all chairmen to develop a legislative response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. I support the following additional policy changes outside the jurisdiction of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee: Hold BP accountable for their commitment to create an independent $20 billion fund. Congress must ensure that BP follows through on its promise to create an independent fund to pay claims to those affected by the oil spill. This fund must be truly independent and pay claims in a swift and fair manner. The $20 billion amount should also be a floor, not a ceiling. Support the President’s action to place a temporary hold on new deepwater drilling. We need to take a step back and make sure that any future drilling will actually live up to the claims of safety and reliability that have been made by oil companies for the last several years. I look forward to seeing the results of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling. Split the Minerals Management Service (MMS) into two separate agencies to prevent conflicts of interest. I support the President’s proposal to split the MMS into two agencies – one to issue leases and one to ensure that oil companies are following regulations and drilling safely. I also encourage you to ensure that the MMS has the appropriate resources to protect workers and the environment. Remove the tax deduction for punitive damages. It is outrageous that BP is allowed to take a tax deduction on any punitive damages it may pay in the future – meaning that taxpayers ultimately pay about 40 percent of these costs. This loophole should be closed so that BP is required to fully pay for the damage they have caused. Require deepwater oil rigs to install acoustic blowout preventers that can remotely shut off the flow of oil. This technology is required in other countries such as Brazil and Norway, but is not required in the United States. We must force oil companies to take all possible safety precautions in order to prevent this tragedy from happening again. Thank you for your consideration of these policy changes. I look forward to working with you and my colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to strengthen our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
06.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), testified before the U.S. House of Representative’s Committee on Ways and Means at a Hearing on China’s Trade and Industrial Policies. The following are excerpts from Larsen’s testimony:“It is my assessment that in fact lack of action on currency by the Chinese Government may be driving Congress to action on currency legislation.“Although I personally question the utility of such an action, I also do not doubt the likelihood of it.“Letting the renminbi appreciate against the dollar is a tool China has in its toolbox to contain rising inflation. “Currency policy is not a China policy.“There are a number of other issues that have a greater impact on jobs here in the U.S., including indigenous innovation particularly related to government procurement polices, IPR protection, and Chinese industrial policies.“The relationship will continue to face bumps in the road, but sustained and committed dialogue between our two nations on currency, government procurement, investment restrictions, market access barriers, indigenous innovation, and even military to military is the best way forward.Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group (USCWG). The USCWG includes 63 Members from the U.S. House of Representatives focuses on educating Members and staff about the U.S.-China relationship through meetings and briefings with academic, business and political leaders from the United States in China. Larsen represents the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state. China is the largest and more rapidly growing export market for Washington state. One in three jobs in Washington state is tied to trade, and from 2000 - 2009, Washington state exports to China grew by 379 percent.### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
06.10.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced that, starting today, thousands of seniors across Washington state will begin to receive their $250 ‘donut hole’ checks to help reduce their prescription drug costs. Under the new health care reform law, seniors who fall into the donut hole coverage cap in 2010 will receive a one-time tax free $250 rebate check. Beginning in 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs and by 2020 the donut hole will be completely closed. Last year, 76,600 Medicare beneficiaries hit the donut hole in Washington state.“These $250 ‘donut hole’ rebate checks will provide much-needed financial relief to Washington state seniors who are struggling with the skyrocketing costs of prescription drugs,” said Rep. Larsen. “Seniors deserve to count on strong Medicare coverage and affordable prescription drugs, especially during these tough economic times when every dollar counts. These checks will immediately begin to help lower the costs of prescription drugs for the tens of thousands of Washington state seniors who fall in to the donut hole this year.” Medicare recipients will automatically receive the $250 check as soon as their prescription drug costs for the year hit $2,830. Larsen also cautioned seniors to beware of scams and Medicare fraud. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and senior officials from the Administration on Aging and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services are heading up the efforts to give seniors the information they need to protect themselves from scams or fraud when it comes to their Medicare benefits.“I have heard from many seniors who are concerned about the misinformation they heard about the new health care law,” said Rep. Larsen. “I am working to make sure Washington state seniors have the right information about health care reform so they can protect themselves from the latest Medicare fraud and scams as these checks begin to hit mailboxes. Be cautious about materials you receive, and if you have any concerns or questions, please do not hesitate to contact my office.” ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
06.10.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on legislation introduced by Chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee George Miller, the Improving Nutrition for America’s Children Act, which includes a proposal he authored to fight childhood hunger. A provision of the bill is modeled after Larsen’s Ensuring All Students Year-round (EASY) Access to Meals and Snacks Act (HR 4274), which will help low-income kids access nutritious food after school and during the summer months, with implementation in 10 states selected by the Secretary of Agriculture. This proposal was endorsed by many Washington state organizations, which are listed below. “I commend Chairman Miller for writing a strong, comprehensive child nutrition bill. Our country has a moral obligation to make sure all kids get enough to eat every day and this bill is an important step towards achieving the President’s goal of eliminating childhood hunger by 2015.“Nearly one in six families in my Congressional District suffers from hunger. In these tough economic times, too many hardworking families are still struggling to put food on the table. It is critical that we are making sure kids get enough to eat so they can perform better in school and avoid serious health problems down the road.“I am pleased that the legislation includes my proposal to help local non-profits and local government organizations, like Boys and Girls Clubs and city Parks Departments, serve healthy meals to low-income children 365 days a year. By helping these local organizations cut through red tape, we will ensure low-income kids get nutritious food at the times when they are most vulnerable to hunger— during the summer, after school, and on weekends.“This legislation will help combat our nation’s obesity epidemic by creating new nutritional standards for food served in schools and strengthening support for healthy school meals.“I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this critical legislation this year.”The following Washington state organizations endorsed the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act:Children’s Alliance Anti-Hunger and Nutrition Coalition Boys & Girls Clubs of Spokane County Food Connection Tacoma Food Lifeline Loon Lake School District Lutheran Public Policy Office Minority Executive Directors Coalition National Association of Social Workers WA Nespelem Elementary School Northwest Harvest Nutrition First Onalaska Schools School’s Out Washington Seattle Food Committee The Nooksack Tribe Touchet School District University Food Bank WA State Food and Nutrition Council Within Reach Yakama Mission###
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting to pass the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011. “The National Defense Authorization Act creates a smart defense budget that focuses on the right priorities to protect America and support our troops. “This bill provides the resources we need to defeat terrorists. This budget will help America fight terrorists by investing in Special Operations forces, supporting the use of Predator drones, and expanding our ability to assist foreign militaries build their own capacity to fight terrorists. “The National Defense Authorization Act increases our efforts to secure loose nuclear materials and keep the worst weapons out of the worst hands. It supports the work of the New START treaty between the U.S. and Russia which will result in a reasonable reduction in nuclear weapons while allowing the U.S. to maintain a safe and secure nuclear deterrent.“This budget maintains our commitment to supporting our servicemembers and their families by increasing military pay by 1.9%, expanding health care coverage to include adult dependent children up to age 26, and increasing the family separation allowance for troops who are deployed away from their families.“I sponsored an amendment to this legislation that will force the Department of Defense to consider the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received as they move forward in the tanker competition. Northwest aerospace workers are the best in the world and Boeing is ready, willing and able to build an outstanding tanker for our military. It is time to end to the delays and conduct a fair, open and transparent tanker competition so we can get much-needed tankers to our men and women in uniform and create good-paying jobs in Washington state. ###
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to help small businesses create jobs, close tax loopholes and extend unemployment insurance benefits by voting for the American Jobs & Closing Tax Loopholes Act. The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act will help create and save jobs by: Extending and expanding Small Business Administration 7(a) and 504 lending programs. “Small businesses are the number one source of new job growth in this country, but the credit crunch has prevented them from accessing the capital they need to grow and create jobs,” said Rep. Larsen. “Between October and April, these SBA programs helped over 100 small businesses in my district access the capital they needed to expand and modernize. This bill will help local small business owners access the tools and resources they need to grow and start hiring again.” Extending the R&D Tax Credit for one year to incentivize keeping good jobs here in America instead of shipping them overseas. “In Washington state, 17,900 jobs are supported by high-tech exports. Extending the R&D Tax Credit will allow local businesses to provide much-needed private sector jobs to local workers, instead of shipping them overseas.” Extending the Build America Bonds for two years to lower the cost of infrastructure improvements for state and local governments. “The Build America Bonds are helping Washington state and county governments afford to fix crumbling infrastructure and rebuild our roads, schools and hospitals,” said Rep. Larsen. “Snohomish County Public Utility District announced last week that they will be creating good private sector jobs in our community by utilizing $142 million in Build America Bonds to construct local projects.” This bill will help Washington state by extending the deduction of state and local sales tax provision for one year. This will save Washington state taxpayers $475 million and will save up to 3,000 jobs. This legislation will also help Washington state by ensuring the state continues to receive federal investments in roads and bridges that help boost the economy by moving freight and commerce around the region. And, unemployment insurance benefits are extended for people who are still out of work and would have lost benefits at the end of this month. “Middle class families in Northwest Washington are still devastated by this economic crisis. I am committed to helping the families and small business owners who are still fighting their way out of this recession,” said Rep. Larsen “There are hundreds of folks in the 2nd District who lost their job through no fault of their own and are still unable to find work. Extending unemployment benefits will help these folks pay their bills and will fuel our local economy as they use the money to buy food and fill their cars with gas.” ###
05.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with a bipartisan group of Representatives, introduced an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that will require the Department of Defense to take into account the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received from European governments when it awards a contract for the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. The amendment was cosponsored by Rep. Todd Tiahrt (KS-04), Rep. Jay Inslee (WA-01), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Rep. Mike Turner (OH-03) and Rep. Russ Carnahan (MO-03). The World Trade Organization has ruled that Airbus received billions in illegal subsidies to develop the A330 airframe, on which the Airbus tanker is based. The National Defense Authorization Act is expected to be voted on tomorrow. “This amendment is part of my continuing efforts to force the Department of Defense to take into account the illegal subsidies that Airbus has received. This amendment requires DOD to recognize that Airbus is pumped up on illegal fiscal steroids and factor that information into the tanker competition. “Northwest aerospace workers are the best in the world and Boeing is ready, willing and able to build an outstanding tanker for our military.“It is time to end the delays and move forward with a fair, open and transparent competition so we can build much-needed tankers for our men and women in uniform and create good-paying jobs in Washington state. ###
05.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), and other Members of Congress, were briefed by Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen, National Incident Commander for the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Response, on the progress of the clean up of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.“Estimates from the U.S. Geological Survey indicate that this is the worst oil spill in U.S. history. As a representative from the Puget Sound, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I am committed to making sure that British Petroleum cleans up this catastrophic spill and pays back every dime to the taxpayers for their contribution to the clean up.“Federal agencies began responding to the British Petroleum oil spill on April 20th, the day of the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig. “Today, I was briefed by Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen, the National Incident Commander for the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Response, on the progress of the oil spill clean up and response. He also discussed what role the federal government is taking to find a solution to stop the BP leak at its source. ###
05.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in support of an agreement reached by the White House and Congressional leaders to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ The Department of Defense announced in February that it was launching a comprehensive study on the potential impact of repealing ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ and determining how best to implement a new policy that would prohibit discrimination. The compromise legislative language will repeal the ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy while allowing the Department of Defense to finish conducting this important review. “All qualified men and women who are willing to put their lives on the line to protect our country should be allowed to join our military. It is time for us to move forward and end this discriminatory policy.“At a time when our soldiers are fighting wars in two different countries and serving multiple extended deployments, Don’t Ask Don’t Tell unacceptably hurts our military readiness.“I endorse Congress moving forward with the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell with the compromise of delaying implementation until after the Department of Defense completes its review on how to make necessary changes to its policies. This compromise will allow the Department of Defense to continue receiving critical input from servicemembers and their families.According to the Servicemembers Legal Defense Network, more than 13,500 service members have been kicked out of the military since Don't Ask, Don't Tell took effect in 1993. In the last five years, the military has discharged nearly 800 mission-critical troops, including dozens of Arabic and Farsi linguists who were essential to military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. ###
05.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in support of H.Res. 1382, a resolution expressing sympathy to the families of the 46 sailors killed by North Korea in the sinking of the Cheonan and solidarity with South Korea in the wake of this tragic accident. “I offer my condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones of those killed in the tragic sinking of the South Korean ship Cheonan.“In the two months following the sinking of the Cheonan, the South Korean government has undertaken extensive forensic work with a team of impartial international investigators to determine the cause of the explosion. Their work leaves no doubt that the sinking of the Cheonan and the death of 46 sailors was the direct result of a torpedo fired by North Korea.“The United States stands with President Lee Myung-bak and fully supports the measures he has taken to respond to the sinking of the Cheonan. President Lee’s decision to close sea lanes and cut off trade with North Korea sends a strong message that South Korea will not tolerate unprovoked aggression. “South Korea is a strong ally of the United States, and as the President has made clear, our commitment to supporting their defense is unequivocal. “I urge the international community to join with South Korea and the United States to condemn North Korea’s unacceptable, belligerent behavior. “The United States Congress stands with South Korea during this difficult time.###
05.21.2010	Question 2: Databases How many unique production databases do you currently support? What is the average size of your production database? What is the largest size of your production databases? Question 3: Application Scalability The purpose of the following question is for the CAO to understand how the new architecture will need to scale to meet spikes in usage. Every application has a performance bottleneck that, at a given load, will begin to result in decreased or unacceptable performance. Given your current application architecture, where do you believe your current performance bottleneck is? What is your current strategy to manage spikes in usage that could result in reduced performance? Virtualization Question 4: VMWare Are any elements of your technical implementation incompatible with VMware vSphere 4? Yes No If yes, please list those elements that are incompatible. Question 5: Virtual Configuration The following question is for capacity planning only and will assist the CAO as it designs the new web architecture. You will be provided additional opportunities to submit a more formal request once the new architecture has been implemented.
05.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group, released the following statement today about the upcoming Strategic and Economic Dialogue (S&ED) between U.S. and Chinese officials. “The relationship between the US and China is not just one relationship, but many relationships. Some of these are very strong, while others need work. It is critical that the U.S. and China work to build these relationships as we face the many challenges that exist around the world today. “The upcoming Strategic and Economic Dialogue is an opportunity for leaders from the U.S. and China to strengthen these relationships for the future. “US-China cooperation on global and regional security issues such as North Korea, Iran, and the nonproliferation of nuclear weapons is necessary to ensure peace and prosperity around the world.“As we continue to face global economic challenges, the U.S. and China must continue to partner on sustainable and balanced economic growth.“The Administration has been clear that a more market-determined and stronger exchange rate is a priority for the U.S. It is also in China’s best interests to do something about their internal economic challenges, namely inflation. Adjusting their currency is one of the few tools left they have to combat inflation.“China must also understand that while the U.S. supports efforts to promote Chinese domestic technological development, they must not discriminate against U.S. companies operating in China. Further amendments by the Chinese to policies like indigenous innovation are important moving forward.“I commend the Administration for its strong commitment to the US-China relationship, and look forward to a productive S&ED that further establishes a positive, cooperative, and comprehensive US-China relationship.###
05.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, delivered the following statement at a hearing on “Implementation of the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006 and Reauthorization of the Pipeline Safety Program.” The hearing was held by the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines and Hazardous Materials, of which Larsen is also a member. Carl Weimer, a Whatcom County resident and member of the Whatcom County Council, testified before the Committee. Carl is Executive Director of the national Pipeline Safety Trust, which was established after the 1999 Bellingham pipeline explosion. The following are Rep. Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery:I would like to recognize Carl Weimer, who is here testifying on behalf of the Pipeline Safety Trust. Carl is from Whatcom County in my district, where a deadly pipeline explosion occurred nearly 11 years ago.Pipeline safety is of great importance to me and my constituents. On June 10, 1999, a pipeline explosion claimed the lives of two 10-year-old boys and an 18-year-old young man in my district in Bellingham, Washington.In response to this tragedy and several other pipeline explosions across the country, Congress passed legislation to strengthen our pipeline safety regulations. The 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act increased penalty fines, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided whistleblower protection, and allowed for state oversight. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety (PIPES) Act. Since that day in June, we have made significant progress in ensuring the safety of our nation’s pipelines. The frequency of “high consequence events” to pipelines has diminished almost 35 percent over the last ten years. Due to the integrity management program required by the new law, pipeline operators have made extensive repairs to their pipelines that otherwise would have led to future accidents. The 811 One Call program provides a number people can call before they dig to make sure that they won’t hit a pipeline. And Congress has significantly increased the number of pipeline inspectors in the field. However, we must remain vigilant, and that’s why today’s hearing is so important. In preparing for today’s hearing, my staff and I have spoke with several of our witnesses. The implementation of the 2006 law seems to be going very well, with one notable exception. PHMSA has not begun the rulemaking process for Phase II of the low-stress rule, and has not indicated when it will do so. I look forward to hearing PHMSA’s plans for initiating this rulemaking and their explanation for why it has taken so long to begin this process. PHMSA is also still in the process of implementing federal enforcement of third party excavation damage to pipelines.And although I commend President Obama for requesting Fiscal Year 2010 funding for all 135 authorized inspectors, I am concerned that PHMSA only has about 94 inspectors currently on-duty.The PIPES Act is due for reauthorization this year. I hope this hearing will spark a robust discussion about what reauthorization might look like and if there are any pressing issues that need to be addressed. From reading the testimony, it appears as if nearly all of our witnesses agree that Congress and PHMSA should clarify that states should not exempt municipalities, state transportation departments and railroads from their damage prevention “one call” rules. And some of our witnesses, including PHMSA, believe that Congress should permit risk-based reassessment intervals for natural gas transmission pipelines. Other issues, such as expanding the miles of pipelines that fall under Integrity Management rules, PHMSA’s data reporting requirements, and expanding the use of excess flow valves are also covered by the testimony.I look forward to delving into these issues with our witnesses. Whether or not Congress decides to pursue a simple reauthorization of existing programs or creates new pipeline safety mandates and programs, I believe it is important that Congress reauthorize the PIPES Act this year and does not let it lapse. It is also critical for Congress to adequately fund important programs such as the Technical Assistance to Communities grant program, the 811 One Call Program, state damage prevention grants, and federal pipeline safety inspectors.Again Madam Chairwoman, thank you for holding this hearing, and I look forward to discussing these issues with my colleagues and our witnesses. ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
05.19.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after today’s full committee mark-up of H.R. 5136, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.“This year’s National Defense Authorization Act makes the vital investments we need to protect our nation and take care of our men and women in uniform. “This legislation improves the quality of life for our service members and their families by increasing military pay by 1.9%, which is .5% above the President’s request.“Earlier this year, President Obama announced an aggressive plan to secure loose nuclear materials within four years. This legislation authorizes the funding needed to implement this initiative, strengthening our national security by helping ensure that loose nuclear materials that could be used to harm the United States do not fall into the hands of our enemies. “I firmly believe that we have a moral and legal obligation to clean up nuclear waste at Hanford, and I am pleased that this bill fully supports the President’s budget request for Hanford cleanup.“This legislation makes important investments in missile defense systems that will protect our service members and our allies from short and medium range ballistic missiles, while rejecting unnecessary funding for the deployment of unproven missile defenses.“I thank my colleagues on the Committee for supporting an amendment I co-sponsored that will require the Department of Defense to submit a report to Congress about the effects of illegal subsidies in the tanker competition. This will force the Department of Defense to publicly comment on the World Trade Organization ruling that Airbus has received illegal subsidies, an issue they have been ignoring. “I look forward to passing this legislation in the full House of Representatives in the coming weeks.###
05.19.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, cosponsored an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act that will help level the playing field for Boeing in the tanker competition. The amendment was adopted by voice vote.The FY 2009 National Defense Authorization Act included a provision supported by Rep. Larsen to require the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on the impact of illegal subsidies on the tanker competition. This amendment will require the Secretary of Defense to submit an interim report within 60 days from when the bill is signed into law. This will give Congress and other policy makers timely information about how the European government’s illegal subsidization of Airbus affects the tanker competition. “For years, we have had a simple message to the Pentagon — conduct a fair, open and transparent process, and may the best tanker win. Yet, the Pentagon continues to ignore the fact that Airbus has benefited from billions of dollars in illegal taxpayer subsidies.“This amendment will require the Pentagon to analyze the World Trade Organization’s clear ruling that Airbus is pumped up on fiscal steroids and provide information to Congress on how these subsidies affect the tanker competition.“Washington state aerospace workers are the best in the world and Boeing is ready, willing and able to build an outstanding tanker for our military. We need to end these delays and conduct a fair, open and transparent competition so we can start building much-needed tankers for our men and women in uniform and create good-paying jobs here at home. ### Site Tools Downloads Privacy Office Contact Infromation Bellingham 104 W. Magnolia, Room 206 Bellingham, WA 98225 Phone: (360) 733-4500 Fax: (360) 733-5144 Everett 2930 Wetmore Ave, Ste. 9F Everett, WA 98201 Phone: (425) 252-3188 Toll-free: (800) 562-1385 Fax: (425) 252-6606 Washington, D.C. U.S. House of Representatives 107 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: (202) 225-2605 Fax: (202) 225-4420 Return to top
05.19.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, delivered the following statement, urging a ban on offshore drilling along the Pacific Coast, at the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Hearing: “Deepwater Horizon: Oil Spill Prevention and Response Measures and Natural Resource Impacts.” The House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has jurisdiction over our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws, such as the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Larsen has been a member of this committee since 2001. Last week, Larsen sent a letter to Chairman Oberstar, urging him to use this hearing to carefully examine the environmental, economic and legal issues associated with this tragedy.The following are Rep. Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: As federal agencies work to contain and clean up this spill, we must also begin to examine the environmental, economic and legal issues arising from this tragedy. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill is a major human and environmental disaster of potentially unprecedented proportions. If this disaster was a bad 1960’s sci-fi movie, it would be the equivalent of Godzilla, Rodan, Gamera and Monster X teaming up to destroy the Gulf of Mexico. As a representative from the Puget Sound, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I want to do everything possible to prevent an oil spill from occurring in Puget Sound and other areas of the country. Results from the Washington State Oil Spill Advisory Council report outlined challenges facing a modest oil spill in the Puget Sound. Among its findings, the Council determined: Only 20-40 percent of a modest spill would be recoverable within two days of the spill; There is a shortage of booming equipment and response personnel in the Puget Sound; and The ability to track a spill at night or in fog (the latter being a specific problem to the Puget Sound) is severely limited by available technology. The Deepwater Horizon spill raises significant concerns regarding the future of offshore drilling in the United States. I propose that the country take a step back to ensure that any future offshore drilling in the Gulf will live up to oil companies’ claims of safety and reliability. First, future offshore drilling must occur within a legal framework that leaves no doubt that companies are fully responsible for any spills or leaks they cause. Congress must act to lift the liability caps in the Oil Pollution Act in order to match the potential magnitude of spills and leaks. Second, the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund must be replenished and the per barrel fee raised to match the increased hazard of deep sea drilling. Third, it seems clear that the tested technology to facilitate deep sea drilling and provide fail-safe response to disasters failed. When the fail-safe fails, we all suffer. I find it very difficult to see how deep sea drilling can survive without a more thorough public-driven testing and certification of drilling methods and response measures. While the final impacts of this potentially massive environmental disaster remain unknown, the situation has raised a number of troubling questions. I look forward to investigating these questions and examining the best ways to strengthen our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. Finally, I join my Washington state colleagues in sponsoring legislation to ban drilling off the coast of our state and other states on the Pacific Coast. The “drill here, drill now” mantra should not apply to the Washington state coast or the Puget Sound. The Deepwater Horizon disaster has made the waters of the Gulf murkier and need for a ban on West Coast drilling clearer. ###
05.18.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), pointed to a new guidance from the IRS that shows over 14,000 small businesses in the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state may qualify for significant tax credits under health insurance reform. The Affordable Care Act is providing tax credits, effective beginning in tax year 2010, for millions of American small businesses to help them offer health insurance coverage to their employees – if they choose to do so. “Small businesses in Northwest Washington will no longer have to choose between health care and hiring,” said Rep. Larsen. “Small businesses are the engine of job growth in this nation. These health insurance tax credits, that cover 35% of the small business’s premium costs this year, and 50% beginning in 2014, will help them create much-needed jobs in this tough economy.”Yesterday, the IRS announced a number of details of how the tax credit works, including:that the new tax credit will not be reduced by a state health care tax credit or subsidy (except in limited circumstances to prevent abuse of the credit);that small businesses can receive the credit not only for traditional health insurance coverage but also for add-on dental, vision, and other limited-scope coverage; anddetailed guidance on how a small business can determine whether it is eligible and how large a credit it will receive.For more information on the IRS guidance issued today, click here.###
05.14.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, sent the following letter to Jim Oberstar, Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, thanking him for holding a hearing on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. The House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has jurisdiction over our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws, such as the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Clean Water Act. Larsen has been a member of this committee since 2001. Larsen also urged Chairman Oberstar to use the hearing to carefully examine the environmental, economic and legal issues associated with this tragedy. May 14, 2010 The Honorable Jim Oberstar Chairman House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 2165 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Oberstar: I write to thank you for scheduling a hearing on the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. As federal agencies work to contain and clean up this spill, we must also begin to examine the environmental, economic and legal issues arising from this tragedy. This hearing will help uncover the gaps and shortcomings of federal oil spill legislation and regulation, which will enable the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to strengthen our nation’s laws in the future. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill is a major human and environmental disaster of potentially unprecedented proportions. The explosion on the drilling rig killed 11 workers and injured 17 more, and the spill jeopardizes the livelihood of thousands of fishermen and other Americans who live in the Gulf Coast region. Federal, state, and local government agencies as well as thousands of volunteers and members of our military have responded rapidly and worked hard to contain the leak and protect the Gulf Coast from contamination. This spill raises significant concerns regarding the future of offshore drilling in the United States. We need to take a step back and make sure that any future drilling will actually live up to the claims of safety and reliability that have been made by oil companies for the last several years. I support the President’s action to place a temporary hold on new drilling, and I look forward to seeing the results of offshore drilling reviews conducted by the Department of Interior and the new Outer Continental Shelf Safety Oversight Board. In the aftermath of the spill, President Obama proposed splitting the Minerals Management Service (MMS) into two separate agencies – one to issue leases, and one to ensure that oil companies are following regulations and drilling safely. I strongly support this change to this agency and will work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that it has the appropriate resources to protect workers and the environment. Future offshore drilling must occur within a legal framework that leaves no doubt that oil companies are fully responsible for any spills or leaks they cause. I am prepared to take whatever action is necessary to hold BP fully accountable for this spill, but Congress should never again be in a position where it is forced to clarify the legal responsibility for cleaning up an oil spill after it occurs. I support raising the liability caps for economic damages and natural resource damages, and look forward to hearing from our witnesses on how best to hold polluters accountable. While the final impacts of this potentially massive environmental disaster remain unknown, the situation has raised a number of troubling questions that I look forward to investigating at the hearing. Currently the Deepwater Horizon oil spill is only about 3 percent of BP’s worst-case scenario they outlined in their oil exploration plan. BP claimed they had the capability to handle a spill 32 times the magnitude of the Deepwater Horizon spill, yet they are clearly unable to control a much smaller spill. I would like to know why the MMS approves oil exploration plans that are so grossly inadequate. Also, in 2004 a Coast Guard report stated that oil spill response personnel did not have the capability or knowledge to respond to a major oil spill. I would like to hear from the Coast Guard what action steps they took after the 2004 report to improve our nation’s oil spill response capability. Although the Coast Guard and other agencies are working diligently to clean up the spill, it is clear that oil spill response equipment and technology have not significantly improved since the Exxon Valdez spill 20 years ago. As a representative from a district bordering Puget Sound, a place of stunning beauty and rich natural habitat, I understand how devastating an oil spill would be to a coastal region. I want to do everything possible to prevent an oil spill from occurring in Puget Sound and other areas of the country. Again, thank you for scheduling this hearing. I look forward to working with you and my colleagues on the T&I Committee to investigate the causes of the Deepwater Horizon spill and examine the best ways to strengthen our nation’s oil spill response and prevention laws. Sincerely, Rick Larsen Member of Congress ###
05.12.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), along with Congressmen Jim Costa (CA-20), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and John B. Larson (CT-01), introduced legislation to protect local jobs and strengthen the dairy industry. The Dairy Price Stabilization Act promotes market stability for farmers and helps family farmers protect jobs and grow their businesses. “The Washington state dairy industry is the tenth largest in the nation. The 128 dairy farms in Whatcom County produce the 2nd greatest amount of milk in the state,” said Rep. Larsen. “This means many local jobs and hardworking families depend on stability in the dairy industry. Every day, countless farmers and families throughout Northwest Washington suffer through the roller coaster that is the dairy market.” “The dairy price crisis is devastating our local economy and the ability to create and sustain jobs.”“Rep. Costa’s bill makes important steps toward stabilizing the price of milk, which is a top priority for dairy farmers. While I recognize this is only a first step in responding to the concerns that dairy farmers have around the country, this is an important step and I am happy to support Rep. Costa’s legislation today.”In 2009, dairy farms across the nation were devastated by one of the worst price crises of the last 40 years. Last June, prices dropped to an average of over $6.00 per hundredweight, dramatically below the cost of production. An inconsistent national support system and the absence of a national supply management plan has exacerbated the price instability and created an unsustainable business cycle for many dairy families. In 2009, America’s roughly 65,000 dairies lost over $12 billion. Sharp losses forced dairy farmers to lay off workers and, in many cases, shutter their operations. “Congressman Larsen has been an active advocate for sound dairy policy since his first days in Congress,” said Jim Werkhoven, Chairman of the Board of Darigold, Inc. and the Northwest Dairy Association. “We appreciate Mr. Larsen’s continued interest and for his sponsorship of Congressman Costa’s Dairy Price Stabilization Program. We believe this proposal is a positive step in creating the necessary dialogue on dairy policy to bring the entire industry together.”The Dairy Price Stabilization Act would help stabilize dairy prices by better aligning supply and demand. Under the program, individual dairies would have the choice of either maintaining their current production level (plus an allowable year-over-year growth rate based on market indications) or expanding their production and increasing their share of the market. Dairies choosing to increase their market share would pay a fee during the first year of expansion which is paid out to their fellow dairy farmers who are maintaining their current share of the market. This creates a rational system that allows the market to absorb increases in production by providing a tangible financial incentive for most dairies to manage their production growth."I would like to thank Representative Larsen for his support on this legislation,” said Mike Schoneveld, President of the Whatcom Dairy Federation. “The dairy industry has worked on this production stabilization plan for three years and we appreciate Rick Larsen's support now that it is a bill."The structure of the bill is based on unbiased economic analysis and modeling conducted in the past 18 months. Both the growth rate and market access fee would be determined based on market indicators including feed costs which are the largest cost factor for producers in states like California. A producer board of directors would be established to advise the Secretary of Agriculture on any necessary adjustments to program operations. The bill empowers farmers by allowing them to vote on whether to enact the program and, three years after it commences, to vote on whether to continue it.###
05.07.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to create jobs and save homeowners money by providing incentives to consumers to install energy-saving measures. The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act (H.R. 5019) passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 161.“Home Star is about creating jobs in Washington state and saving folks money during these tough economic times,” said Rep. Larsen. “Too many of our friends and neighbors remain out of work and struggling to make ends meet. Home Star will help put people back to work in manufacturing and construction jobs that can’t be shipped overseas and save families money on their soaring energy bills.” Home Star will spur energy efficient renovations by providing rebates to homeowners who install energy-saving products, such as insulation, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters. An estimate by the non-profit ClimateWorks concluded that the Home Star legislation will create 170,000 jobs and save homeowners nearly $10 billion on their energy bills over the next decade.“Not only will Home Star help reduce unemployment, it will also help reduce pollution and our dependence on foreign oil,” said Rep. Larsen. The Home Star program will give an important boost to programs already operating in Northwest Washington. David Finet, the Executive Director of the Opportunity Council, highlighted the potential benefits of the Home Star legislation."Opportunity Council has been providing energy efficiency improvements for homes in Whatcom, Island and San Juan Counties through the federally-funded weatherization assistance program for over 25 years,” said Finet. “Thousands of people in our community are already benefiting from warmer homes with lower energy bills, and there are thousands of households that could still benefit from weatherization. The whole community benefits from the energy savings, jobs and the economic boost of energy efficiency programs. The Home Star program will have a positive impact on our communities and help get our economy back on track.” Home Star includes two different programs to help boost home energy renovation. Silver Star – This provides up-front rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters at the time of sale. Homeowners receive up to $1,500 per improvement, with a rebate of up to $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. Gold Star – This rewards homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement measures to reduce energy use, backed by a quality assurance program. Consumers receive $3,000 for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, plus an additional $1,000 for each additional 5 percent energy savings up to $8,000 – capped at 50 percent of the project cost. ###
05.03.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) met with U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk, the Secretary General of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and Trade Ministers from ASEAN nations to discuss trade opportunities between the United States and the Asia Pacific region.“I was honored today to join Ambassador Kirk in Seattle to welcome the ASEAN trade minister’s delegation to the U.S. as a sign of our sustained commitment to the region. ASEAN is the fifth largest export market in the world and will be an important economic partner for the United States as we work to increase our exports as a way to grow jobs here at home. “It was important to conduct this meeting in Seattle because Washington state businesses are at the forefront of trade relationships with Southeast Asia. “In Washington state, people do not wake up looking east to Chicago or New York or Washington DC– they wake up looking West to China, Japan, Korea, as well as ASEAN countries.“One in three jobs here are linked to foreign exports. We currently rank 4th in the country for total exports abroad. Selling products overseas is a surefire way to create jobs here at home and Washington state can help serve as a model as the U.S. seeks to grow jobs through export promotion.“As ASEAN nations work towards economic integration, the United States must maintain a sustained commitment to the region. The nations of ASEAN comprise a dynamic economic region, accounting for the third largest economy in Asia. Their economies are growing rapidly – 170% in the last 10 years. “Late last year, World Bank President Bob Zoellick noted that the Southeast Asia region lies at a geographic crossroads between India and China, two rising powers, and that the ten Member-countries of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) have recognized the moment and taken actions to deepen its integration even while reaching out to others. “ASEAN countries are at a geopolitical crossroads and the United States must foster strong cultural, diplomatic and economic relationships with the region as we move forward. “I urge the Obama Administration to continue its commitment to Southeast Asia by building upon the steps it’s already taken.“Last year, President Obama became the first President to formally attend an ASEAN meeting, and next year the U.S. will host the 2011 APEC Summit.“I applaud USTR Ambassador Kirk’s decision to move forward with negotiating the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). Joining the TPP negotiations is an important step for U.S. trade interests abroad, particularly as we look for ways to help small and medium sized American companies export their products overseas.“Echoing Secretary Clinton’s speech in Hawaii, in January of this year, the United States must continue to engage Asia through multi-lateral approaches such as APEC as well as ASEAN. “Supporting strong regional organizations in Asia will lead to even stronger bilateral relationships between the U.S. and our partners in the region. “The future lies to the West, and I am committed to working with the President and our counterparts in the Asia Pacific region to ensure peace and prosperity in the 21st century. ###
04.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the introduction of the DISCLOSE Act to address the Supreme Court’s ruling in Citizens United v. FEC by ensuring our electoral process is transparent. A companion bill was also introduced in the U.S. Senate.“Citizens have the right to know who is spending money to influence elections. The DISCLOSE Act will ensure transparency and accountability in our electoral process so voters can make informed decisions about the candidates running for office.“The Citizens United ruling opened the door for special interests to have unprecedented influence on elections. I look forward to becoming a co-sponsor of this legislation so we can counteract this ruling by enacting tough disclosure requirements so voters can follow the money and know who is behind political advertisements.“The DISCLOSE Act will ensure transparency, ban foreign companies from spending unlimited cash on our candidates and will prevent Big Banks on Wall Street from spending bailout money to influence elections. Folks in Northwest Washington deserve to participate in a fair election and this legislation will help make sure that happens.###
04.29.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to conduct a greater investigation into Goldman Sachs and other investment banks by sending the following letter to Mary Schapiro, Chairwoman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. “Nearly 100,000 hardworking families in Washington state have lost their homes or fallen into bankruptcy because big banks on Wall Street gambled with their futures by selling risky financial products,” said Rep. Larsen. “I urge the SEC to broaden their investigation into Goldman Sachs and other banks on Wall Street so we can finally end the Era of Big Bank Bailouts and protect the financial security of middle class families and small businesses across the nation.”In hearings this week, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has uncovered evidence that the Abacus 2007-AC1 transaction was only one in a series of questionable CDO deals by Goldman Sachs. Besides the 24 other Abacus transactions, the Subcommittee uncovered five other transactions that Goldman Sachs created in order to profit from the collapse of the mortgage market. “Small businesses in our community have been forced to shut their doors and millions of dollars in hard-earned retirement savings were wiped out by the reckless behavior of Wall Street,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to act now and prevent another economic crisis from happening again by focusing on the needs of the hardworking families and small businesses on Main Street -- not the Big Banks on Wall Street.”April 28, 2010The Honorable Mary SchapiroChairwomanU.S. Securities and Exchange Commission100 F St. NEWashington, DC 20549Dear Chairwoman Schapiro:I write to ask the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to broaden your investigation into Goldman Sachs and other investment banks. The SEC has alleged that Goldman Sachs failed to disclose to investors information about a synthetic collateralized debt obligation (CDO) known as Abacus 2007-AC1, including the role that a major hedge fund played in selecting which mortgage securities to include in the investment portfolio. Goldman Sachs also failed to tell investors that the hedge fund was betting against the CDO. However, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has uncovered evidence that the Abacus 2007-AC1 transaction was only one in a series of questionable CDO deals. Besides the 24 other Abacus transactions, the Subcommittee uncovered five other transactions that Goldman Sachs created in order to profit from the collapse of the mortgage market. I encourage the SEC to examine these transactions to determine whether they included similar misleading statements to investors or any other illegal activities.I also urge the SEC to investigate other investment banks to determine if similar deals were made to defraud investors. This week’s Senate hearing showed that Goldman’s actions were common practices on Wall Street. Other financial institutions were also involved in the securitization of complex financial products tied to the housing market. It is vitally important that the SEC investigate Wall Street’s contribution to the economic crisis. For far too long, investment banks on Wall Street engaged in behavior that was not only reckless, but, as the SEC complaint charges, illegal. As a result, our country faced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Since the financial crisis, over 50,000 families in Washington state have entered foreclosure and over 40,000 people have filed for bankruptcy. Countless small businesses have shut their doors and millions of dollars in retirement accounts have been wiped out. For these reasons, I urge the SEC to investigate Goldman Sachs and other investment banks to the fullest extent of your authority. Thank you for your attention to my request. Sincerely,Rick LarsenMember of Congress ###
04.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted for the Implementing Management for Performance and Related Reforms to Obtain Value in Every (IMPROVE) Acquisition Act (H.R. 5013), which passed the House 417-3. This legislation will save taxpayer dollars by rooting out waste, fraud and abuse in the defense acquisition system. “Every dollar wasted in the defense acquisition system is a dollar that can not be used to support our service members and their families,” said Rep. Larsen. “The IMPROVE Acquisition Act will reduce waste, fraud and abuse in our defense acquisition system to save valuable taxpayer dollars and get our men and women in uniform the equipment they need, when they need it.”In 2009, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Weapons Systems Acquisition Reform Act (PL 111-23) to reform how the Department of Defense evaluates and purchases major weapons systems, which comprise about 20% of the defense acquisition budget. At the time, the Government Accountability Office estimated that 95 major weapons programs were a combined $295 billion over budget and on average 21 months behind schedule. The IMPROVE Acquisition Act expands on that legislation to ensure that the 80% of defense acquisition dollars that go towards equipment and services are also well-spent.“Last year, I joined with my colleagues to enact the Weapons Systems Acquisition Reform Act to address wasteful spending on weapons systems that were over-cost and behind schedule,” Larsen continued. “The IMPROVE Acquisition Act will build on that work and require the Department of Defense to apply similar rigor when purchasing other equipment and services to support our men and women in uniform.” The IMPROVE Acquisition Act contains the following specific reforms to improve defense acquisition. Strengthens the workforce that oversees acquisition; Requires DOD to set objectives for the defense acquisition system and hold people accountable for achieving those objectives; Ensures that DOD is realistic when determining what types of equipment and services it needs to purchase; and Requires DOD to develop meaningful consequences for success or failure in financial management. ###
04.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — Yesterday, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted against a Congressional pay raise for 2011 in order to save taxpayer dollars.“With so many folks still out of work and struggling to make ends meet, I am not going to vote to give myself, or any other Member of Congress a pay raise,” said Rep. Larsen. “In these tough economic times, we need to be laser-focused on getting people back to work and making sure our small businesses have the tools they need to grow and start hiring again.” The U.S. Senate already passed identical legislation last week to deny Members of Congress the automatic $1,600 pay raise. “Yesterday’s vote was an easy choice. Hardworking families in my district are not getting pay raises so it is certainly not an appropriate time for Members of Congress to get one,” said Rep. Larsen. “Moving forward we are going to face some much tougher decisions about where to save money in the budget but I am committed to making tough fiscal choices that will rein in spending and tackle our unsustainably high deficit, so we can create an economic environment that will support good jobs and grow our economy well into the future.” ###
04.26.2010	Washington, D.C. —Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on the Senate to move forward on a financial regulatory bill that will provide common-sense oversight of Big Banks and Wall Street in order to prevent another financial collapse.“Folks in Northwest Washington deserve financial security. I am disappointed that the Senate is delaying action to protect middle class families from the reckless behavior of Wall Street. “By bending the rules and selling risky financial products, Wall Street played Russian Roulette with the futures of hardworking families and drove us into a financial crisis.“We need to act now and prevent another economic crisis from happening again by focusing on the needs of the hardworking families and small businesses on Main Street -- not the Big Banks on Wall Street.“The time to act has passed. We must end the Era of Big Bank Bailouts. The Senate needs to pass legislation now so that Big Banks will no longer be allowed to drive American families and our country’s economy off a cliff. ###
04.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed by voice vote H.Res. 1262, introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), to express the condolences of the U.S. House of Representatives for those workers who died and the one worker who was severely injured at the fire at the Tesoro Anacortes Refinery on April 2, 2010. Larsen also delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The following are Rep. Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery:Madam Speaker, on April Second, Washington state experienced a tragedy when a fire occurred in the Naphtha Hydrotreater unit at the Tesoro oil refinery in Anacortes. Six workers died as a result of the fire, and one more was burned and remains in intensive care.I offer my condolences to the families, friends, and loved ones of the victims of this fire. My thoughts and prayers are with Tesoro’s employees and everyone from the City of Anacortes, the state of Washington, and our nation who grieve for the workers who died and suffered injury. I encourage my colleagues to join with me in supporting this resolution to honor the lives of Matthew C. Bowen, Darrin J. Hoines, Daniel J. Aldridge, Kathryn Powell, Donna Van Dreumel and Lew Janz.This resolution also expresses the best wishes of Congress to Matt Gumbel, who was severely burned in the fire and is currently in serious condition at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. I hope that Matt recovers as quickly as possible from his injuries.Earlier this week, I received a letter from the CEO of Tesoro and the Chair of the United Steelworkers Local 12-591, expressing support for this resolution. I request unanimous consent that this letter be entered into the Congressional Record.Multiple federal, state, and local agencies, including the Chemical Safety Board, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries, are currently investigating the causes of the fire. I strongly support the work they are doing to help us understand what happened and how to prevent a similar accident in the future.Although most Americans don’t associate Northwest Washington with oil and gas, Skagit and Whatcom Counties in my district have been home to major oil refineries for decades. The four oil refineries in Northwest Washington process approximately 500,000 barrels of oil each day. These refineries are central to the local economy, employing nearly 2,500 people and supplying over $200 million in annual wages to workers and contractors.The refining industry is inherently hazardous. As one refinery employee in my district put it “we don’t bake cookies, we boil oil.”That being said, preventing accidents that harm workers is vitally important. As the fire at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes fades from newspaper headlines, we must remain sharply focused on worker safety - at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes, and at refineries and industrial sites around the country. While it is not possible to prevent all refinery accidents, we need to learn from what happened in Anacortes. We need to make sure that we are doing everything we can to reduce the risk of a similar accident in the future.I urge my colleagues to join with me in supporting this resolution expressing the condolences of the House of Representatives to those who lost families, friends and loved ones in this fire. ###
04.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to today’s announcement that EADS will bid alone for the aerial refueling contract. “After being unable to find a U.S. partner, Airbus has decided to go it alone in the competition to build new tankers for our military.“Washington state aerospace workers are the best in the world, and Boeing is ready and able to build an outstanding tanker for our military. I am disappointed that the Department of Defense is bending over backwards to allow Airbus to participate in the competition just weeks after the WTO ruled that it received billions of dollars in illegal subsidies. “I will continue to press the Administration to explain why it is pushing ahead with a tanker competition that ignores the illegal subsidies provided to Airbus.”###
04.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — The status quo in health care is unacceptable. American families and small businesses are crippled by the staggering costs of premiums. We can not afford inaction. Health care reform will immediately start lowering the cost of health care to make coverage more affordable for families and ensure small businesses no longer have to choose between health care and hiring. Health care reform is about instilling common-sense rules of the road to hold insurance companies accountable. We will immediately put an end to their abusive practices like arbitrarily hiking premiums, denying people coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and dropping patients from their plans when they get sick. Health care reform will lower the cost of health care and give the power back to the American consumer. It preserves choice and creates competition in the insurance market. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you change jobs, you can keep your coverage. The skyrocketing cost of health care is forcing small businesses to choose between health care and hiring. This bill will provide much-needed financial relief to small business owners by offering them tax credits when they purchase coverage for their employees. Small businesses are the engine of job growth in this country and in this economy we need them to use their dollars to fuel payrolls—not out-of control premiums. Health reform means that the Medicare trust fund will be around so seniors can count on their benefits for years to come. This bill will improve their coverage and ensure access to Medicare prescriptions by beginning to close the donut hole this year. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) confirms that this bill is fiscally responsible and will reduce the deficit by $138 billion in this decade and by $1.2 trillion in 20 years. This bill will help us build a foundation for long-term growth by tackling the unsustainable cost of health care and providing much-needed financial relief for families and businesses. After reading through your emails and letters, I have noticed several common questions and concerns about health care reform. I have prepared this Frequently Asked Questions document to help answer some of your questions and concerns. I hope that you will find it helpful. HOW WILL THIS AFFECT ME?Q: What is in this bill? The health insurance bill will expand access to quality, affordable health insurance options. It sets up Health Insurance Exchanges, which will provide one-stop, comparison shopping for individuals and small businesses to purchase affordable coverage. The bill provides affordability credits to make insurance premiums more affordable for low- and middle-income families. The bill will establish common-sense rules of the road to hold insurance companies accountable. It will immediately put an end to their abusive practices like arbitrarily hiking premiums, denying people coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and dropping patients when they get sick. It creates shared responsibility among individuals, employers and government to ensure all Americans have affordable health coverage. Except in cases of hardship, individuals will be responsible for obtaining and maintaining health insurance. Those who choose not to obtain coverage will pay a penalty, and those who cannot afford to obtain coverage will get help to do so. The proposal builds on the employer-sponsored coverage that exists today: large employers will have the option of providing health insurance coverage for their workers or contributing funds on their behalf. Recognizing the special needs of small businesses which are the engine of our economy, small businesses with less than 50 employees will be exempted from any penalties for not providing health insurance. In addition, a new small business tax credit will be available for those firms who want to provide health coverage to their workers, but cannot afford it today. Health reform will strengthen Medicare. It lengthens the solvency of the Medicare trust fund so seniors can count on their benefits for years to come. This bill will improve their coverage and ensure access to Medicare prescriptions by beginning to close the donut hole this year.Q: When does this bill take effect? Some provisions take effect immediately. In 6 months, insurance companies will be prohibited from dropping people from coverage when they get sick, denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions, and placing lifetime limits on coverage. Health insurance plans will be required to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parent’s insurance. Small businesses will have access to tax credits to help them purchase health insurance for their employees. And seniors who hit the donut hole this year will receive a $250 rebate. Most of the major provisions of the bill – the health insurance exchanges, the individual and employer responsibility provisions, and the prohibition against discriminating based pre-existing conditions – take effect in 2014. Q: Why do we need health care reform? I already get great health insurance from my employer and I am afraid health care reform will mess up what I already have. We need health care reform because the status quo is unacceptable. Business as usual is unacceptable for small business owners who cannot afford coverage for their employees. The status quo does not work for families who are worried about their jobs and sky-high health costs. The current system must be reformed for taxpayers who have seen health care costs explode the federal budget deficit. Discrimination must stop for my constituents who are denied coverage, or charged through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a preexisting condition such as diabetes or cancer. If you like the status quo, if you like your health insurance, nothing will change for you. If anything, your health insurance will improve and be more affordable to you. If you get sick, you will be able to get care without worrying that your premiums are going to skyrocket the next year or that your health insurer will drop your coverage. The bill requires your employer coverage to cap your out-of-pocket costs and prohibits annual or lifetime limits on benefits, so if you have unexpected medical needs you don’t have to worry about going bankrupt due to unexpected costs. If you change jobs, you can take your health insurance with you. And because millions of people without coverage today will have coverage in the future, your premiums will be lower. Q: Will I be forced to give up my current health care coverage and take something that is going to be forced on me? No. No one will be forced to give up their current health insurance if they like it. If you have employer-sponsored health care today – as most people do – then little to nothing will change. If anything, your health care benefits will be improved: the bill mandates minimum standards that all health insurance plans will have to meet. Most employer-based plans already meet these minimum standards. If you buy your health insurance on the individual insurance market, then you can keep your plan permanently and it will be considered acceptable coverage. Health care plans that have been negotiated through collective bargaining agreements will remain the same.Q: I’m uninsured – how will health care reform help me now? Although most of the major provisions of the bill go into effect in 2014, some of the reforms will happen right away. Immediate help for the uninsured will be available until the Health Insurance Exchange is up and running – the bill creates a temporary insurance program for individuals who have been uninsured for several months or have been denied a policy because of pre-existing conditions. And if you’re young, this bill will require insurance companies to allow young people through age 26 to remain on their parents’ insurance policy. Q: I have health insurance – how will I benefit under this bill? If you get sick, you will be able to get care without worrying that your premiums are going to skyrocket the next year or that your health insurer will drop your coverage. The bill requires your employer coverage to cap your out-of-pocket costs and prohibits annual or lifetime limits on benefits, so if you have unexpected medical needs you don’t have to worry about going bankrupt due to unexpected costs. If you have a pre-existing condition like cancer or diabetes, health insurers will no longer be able to deny you coverage. And because millions of people without coverage today will have coverage in the future, your premiums will be lower. If you have insurance, but it’s unaffordable to you, you may be eligible to purchase cheaper coverage in a Health Insurance Exchange. You may also be eligible for affordability credits to help you afford your premiums and co-pays. Q: What are Health Insurance Exchanges? The Exchanges will provide one-stop, comparison shopping for individuals and small businesses to purchase affordable coverage. The Exchanges would not be insurers; they would provide eligible individuals and small businesses with access to insurers’ plans in a comparable way. Think of an Exchange as a Travelocity or Expedia for health insurance plans. Beginning in 2014, individuals and small businesses with up to 100 employees can purchase health care coverage through an Exchange. In 2017, states can allow businesses with more than 100 employees to purchase coverage. The Exchanges will make coverage more affordable for individuals and small businesses because they will be pooled together with other individuals in the Exchanges. This means that people can get the benefits of large-group rates normally enjoyed only by large employers, lower administrative costs, greater transparency, and increased price competition. Q: Will I have to buy health insurance? Under health care reform, all individuals who can afford it have a responsibility to obtain health insurance. If individuals do not obtain health insurance, then they pay a tax penalty of the greater of $695 per year up to a maximum of three times that amount per family or 2.5% of household income. If you believe that your premiums are unaffordable, you may apply for a hardship waiver to exempt you from purchasing health insurance. Fixing our broken healthcare system will provide real benefits for every part of our society – patients and consumers, businesses, hospitals, physicians and nurses. Fixing this will have a cost. I believe that everyone must take some responsibility to fix the system. That means that individuals must take personal responsibility to obtain health insurance, and employers must take responsibility to support the health coverage needs of their workers. Otherwise, everyone pays if individuals without health coverage end up in the emergency room. Q: What is the public option? The House health care reform would have established a public health insurance option that would be available through the Health Insurance Exchange. However, the final health care reform bill does not contain a public health insurance option. Q: Will health care reform destroy the employer-based health care system? Will it lead to single payer health care? No. The employer-based health care system will remain strong. Health care reform builds on the current system and improves it by making health care more affordable for families and businesses. Q: Can I get YOUR health care plan? That’s what I want – the same health care Members of Congress get. As a member of Congress, I get the same choice of health care insurance plans as all other federal employees. I have a choice of insurance providers with different benefits and different premiums. My family chooses to receive coverage from CareFirst, a Blue Cross Blue Shield plan. I want all American to get to choose their insurance the same way that federal employees and Member of Congress do – that’s why I support establishing a health insurance exchange. A health insurance exchange would be a place for individuals and small businesses to comparison shop among insurers. Q: Can I keep my health savings account (HSA), flexible spending account (FSA), or health reimbursement account (HRA)? Yes. Employees may still receive benefits under employer-provided HSAs, FSAs and HRAs. Nothing in the bill would eliminate these options. I support HSAs and believe they should continue to be an affordable health insurance option for individuals and small businesses. Q: Are you going to tax my employer-provided benefits? The health care reform bill enacts an excise tax on very high-cost health insurance policies ($10,200 annual premium for individual coverage and $27,500 for family coverage), but it does not go into effect until 2018. Q: Will health care reform increase my taxes? If you choose not to obtain health insurance coverage for you and your family – either by declining your employer-provided health insurance or by not purchasing coverage from an Exchange – then you will have to pay a penalty. If you believe that your premiums are unaffordable, you may apply for a hardship waiver to exempt you from purchasing health insurance. Q: Will health care reform result in rationing? No. Health care reform is about putting in place common-sense rules of the road to hold insurance companies accountable. We will immediately put an end to their abusive practices like arbitrarily hiking premiums, denying people coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and dropping patients from their plans when they get sick. These abusive practices ration care right now. Q: My premiums are going to skyrocket with this bill. Your premiums are going to increase whether or not Congress passes health insurance reform. However, the best estimates show that for most people, premiums won’t change significantly with health insurance reform. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that for those in the group market – those who get insurance through their employers – premiums would largely stay the same. The change in the average premium in the large group market would be between 0 percent and a 3 percent decrease compared to where they’d be under current law in 2016. Average premiums for families who buy insurance on the individual market would go up by 10 to 13 percent. The reason is that benefits would be a lot better for families buying coverage on their own under the bill. But most people buying their own coverage would receive affordability subsidies that will make their actual costs substantially lower than they otherwise would be. Q: How will health care reform affect rural communities? The health care reform bill includes numerous provisions dedicated to addressing health care access issues in rural America by bolstering the health care workforce and improving rural Medicare reimbursement. The bill provides rural physician training grants; loan repayment assistance for doctors who agree to practice in rural areas; and increases reimbursement for rural doctors, hospitals, and pharmacies.Q: Is tort reform in this bill? Medical malpractice reform is not part of this bill. Right now there is no agreement on how reform could be achieved. Setting caps on non-economic damages in medical malpractice suits has produced varied results. Some states with caps have seen their malpractice insurance rates increase more slowly than states without caps, but some states with caps have seen their rates increase faster than in states without caps. Until there’s consensus on how to address medical malpractice reform, it’s hard to move forward. The health care reform bill establishes a new voluntary state program designed to encourage states to implement alternatives (“early offer” or certificate of merit approach) to traditional medical malpractice litigation.Q: Does this bill allow health insurance to be sold across state lines? The health care reform bill permits states to enter into agreements to allow for the sale of insurance across state lines when the state legislatures of the states in question agree to do so. Insurers selling policies through a compact would only be subject to the laws and regulations of the state where the policy is written or issued. MEDICAREQ: Will Medicare change under this bill? The only changes Medicare beneficiaries will see are two significant improvements to the program that seniors have long asked for. First, the bill will cover 100 percent of the cost of preventative care, such as regular check ups, mammograms and other preventive tests. Second, the bill ensures that millions of seniors will save money on their prescription drugs by immediately beginning to close the “donut hole” in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Also: Nothing in the health care reform bill would cut Medicare benefits or increase your out-of-pocket costs for Medicare services. This bill will begin closing the Medicare Part D “donut hole” immediately, and close it completely by 2020. Seniors who reach the donut hole this year will receive a $250 rebate. Health care reform will reduce the cost of preventive services so patients stay healthier. Health care reform will reduce costly, preventable hospital readmissions, saving patients undue harm and Medicare money. Health care reform will reduce hospital acquired infections, also protecting seniors. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has shown that health care reform will slow the growth of Medicare costs by 1.4 points per year. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, this bill will lengthen the solvency of the Medicare program by almost a decade, protecting both beneficiaries and taxpayers. Q: Is the Medicare geographic inequity agreement in the final bill? The final bill includes an agreement to address the long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care in Washington state. I have been fighting to protect access to health care for Washington state seniors by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. The agreement includes changes to the reconciliation bill to immediately provide $800 million in additional funding for efficient providers and hospitals, including doctors and hospitals in Washington state. This funding is a short-term fix to the Medicare geographic payment inequity issue until long-term changes can be implemented by the Administration. It will reward Washington state medical providers for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. My colleagues and I also secured an agreement with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to study and implement changes to the Medicare reimbursement and payment system. The Secretary will commission the two Institute of Medicine studies that were included in the House health care reform bill and implement the recommendations of the studies. The studies will begin in April and will be completed within two years.Q: Why is Washington state reimbursed so low? Under the current system, Washington state is penalized for providing higher-quality, lower-cost care. The average federal Medicare payment per patient in Everett, Washington is $6,905 a patient. In McAllen, Texas the average is $14,946. But while the quality of care in Everett is the same if not better compared to McAllen, medical providers there get paid more than twice as much, costing taxpayers more than twice as much and punishing Washington providers. This inequity makes Washington physicians less likely to accept patients on Medicare, making it more difficult for local seniors to find a doctor who will accept their insurance.Q: I heard that you are cutting over a half trillion dollars out of Medicare. Is that true? The health care reform does cut about $450 billion out of the Medicare program. However, none of these cuts are to Medicare benefits. About $140 billion of this amount comes from reducing overpayments to private insurance companies that offer Medicare Advantage plans. About $200 billion comes from making changes to the way Medicare pays doctors and hospitals. These changes will make the health care delivery system more efficient, which also makes it less costly to taxpayers. About $35 billion comes from reducing payments that hospitals currently receive for providing care to uninsured patients. Since these patients will be insured under health care reform, these payments will no longer be necessary. And finally, about $80 billion comes from other changes to the Medicare program, including rooting out waste, fraud and abuse. Q: How does the bill cut waste, fraud and abuse? The bill improves payment accuracy to ensure that the right amount is paid, and expands funding and authority to fight waste, fraud and abuse. It strengthens existing compliance and enforcement tools for Medicare, increases funding to support these efforts and creates new, tougher penalties for individuals who submit false claims to Medicare. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has estimated that for every $1 we invest in fighting waste, fraud, and abuse we will produce $1.75 in savings.Q: Are my Medicare benefits going to decrease? No. In fact, the health care reform bill improves your Medicare benefits. It fills the Medicare Part D drug program “donut hole” which currently leaves a gap in your prescription drug benefits when you need help the most. It will make preventive care free for Medicare beneficiaries. It will lower the cost of prescription drugs by finally allowing the government to negotiate with drug companies to get cheaper drugs. It improves the low-income subsidy programs in Medicare so that more seniors get the financial help they need to make sure Medicare is affordable for them. And this bill will lengthen the solvency of the Medicare program, protecting both beneficiaries and taxpayers.Q: What are you doing to fix the Medicare Prescription Drug Program donut hole? The bill will begin closing the Medicare Part D “donut hole” immediately, and close it completely by 2020. Seniors who reach the donut hole this year will receive a $250 rebate. [The donut hole is the coverage gap in the Medicare Prescription Drug Program (Part D). Under Part D, Medicare does not contribute toward the cost of drugs when some individuals’ annual drug expenses fall into a certain range.] I strongly support fixing the donut hole so that Washington state seniors are no longer faced with paying thousands of dollars in out-of-pocket drug costs. Q: I’ve heard that this bill will get rid of my Medicare Advantage plan. Is that true? No. The health care reform bill does not eliminate Medicare Advantage plans – instead, it simply phases out the overpayments going to these plans. Currently, the private insurance companies that offer Medicare Advantage plans are paid an average of 14 percent more than it costs to provide traditional Medicare. Since most Medicare Advantage plans simply offer standard Medicare benefits at a higher cost to the federal government and U.S. taxpayers, the bill eliminates the extra subsidies. Most private Medicare Advantage plans will still continue to operate once the current overpayments are phased out. Q: I’ve heard that Medigap plans will no longer be available. Is that true? No. Nothing in the bill will affect Medigap plans. Medigap plans will continue to be available to Medicare beneficiaries. EMPLOYERSQ: How will the House health care reform bill help small businesses? This legislation will bring down costs for small businesses and families. Because they lack bargaining leverage, small businesses pay 18 percent more than larger businesses for the same health insurance. Insurance market reforms will make coverage more affordable. Small businesses (employers with less than 100 employees) will have new options to purchase affordable health insurance that are not available to them now. Through new Health Insurance Exchanges, small business owners and employees can comparison shop for a plan that offers lower rates that large groups and large employers get, stable pricing from year to year and lower administrative costs. The bill also offers tax credits to small businesses with less than 25 employees to help them purchase health insurance for their employees. Small businesses can receive these tax credits beginning this year. Q: I’m a small business owner - will I be required to provide health care to my employees? The health care reform bill exempts employers with 50 or fewer employees from any penalties for not providing health care coverage to their employees. 96% of small businesses would be exempt from penalties for not providing coverage. For small businesses with less than 25 employees that want to offer health insurance coverage, a tax credit help them provide health benefits to their employees – paying up to 50% of their costs based on size and average wages. 60% of small businesses will be eligible for a tax credit. Q: I’m a business owner - will I be required to provide health care to my employees? If your business employs 50 or more full time employees, you will be subject to a penalty if you do not provide insurance and one of more or your employees is receiving an affordability credit in the exchange. The fee is $2,000 per full-time employee, with the first 30 full time employees subtracted from the payment calculation. (e.g. a firm with 51 workers that does not offer coverage will pay an amount equal to 51-30, or 21 times the fee). If you have more than 50 employees and you currently offer coverage that is considered “affordable,” you can continue proving that coverage without penalty. Affordable coverage means an employer plan with an actuarial value of at least 60% and the employee share of the premium does not exceed 9.8% of income. Fixing our broken healthcare system will provide real benefits for every part of our society – patients and consumers, businesses, hospitals, physicians and nurses. Fixing this will have a cost. I believe that everyone must take some responsibility to fix the system. That means that individuals must take personal responsibility to obtain health insurance, and employers must take responsibility to support the health coverage needs of their workers. Otherwise, everyone pays if individuals without health coverage end up in the emergency room. COSTSQ: How much is this health care bill going to cost? The total cost of the health care reform bill is $940 billion over ten years. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the bill will reduce the deficit by $138 billion over 10 years and $1.2 trillion in two decades. The bill is fully paid for. Much of the bill is paid for by achieving significant efficiencies and savings in the health care system – using the money we are already spending more effectively by rewarding high-quality, efficient care and expanding coverage to bring down emergency costs.Q: Our country is in a serious economic recession. Shouldn’t Congress focus on that first? Insurance companies are not going to wait until the recession is over – they are still hiking premiums by 40 percent and denying people coverage for pre-existing conditions. Health care reform is a critical part of our economic recovery. If we don’t act now, skyrocketing health care costs will only get worse – threatening the budgets of families, businesses, and the nation. Health care reform will improve our nation’s fiscal health and put us on the road to economic recovery: the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that this bill will reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion over the next two decades.Q: How are you going to address the increases in government spending? Health care reform will be fully paid for – and it will reduce the deficit by $138 billion in the next 10 years and $1.2 trillion in the next 20 years. Moreover, making our health care system more efficient will decrease government spending and our federal deficit in the future. Moving forward, we must do even more to restore fiscal discipline to Washington, D.C. VETERANSQ: Is there any provision related to veteran’s coverage in the health care reform bill? Will this bill affect my VA health care? The health care reform bill would not significantly affect the VA health system or service members and their families covered by TRICARE. Veterans in the VA system and service members and their families covered by TRICARE will be allowed to continue seeing your doctor and your care will not be affected. The bill contains provisions to ensure that those covered by VA health care, TRICARE, or TRICARE for Life meet the individual responsibility requirement, and therefore exempts veterans and service members and their dependents from any penalty. The House has also passed separate legislation, HR 4887, the TRICARE Affirmation Act, to ensure that TRICARE is considered adequate coverage and affirm that TRICARE beneficiaries do not have to purchase additional insurance. I was an original cosponsor of this legislation, which passed unanimously. Veterans, service members and their families have access to the Health Insurance Exchange to obtain additional health insurance if they choose. LEGISLATIVE PROCESSQ: Have you read this bill? Are you going to read it? Yes, I have read the bill. Q: Why are you trying to jam this bill through the House? Why not take your time and properly debate this bill? Why is the House in such a hurry to get things done? I agree that reforming health care is a major undertaking, and Congress needs to take the time to do it right. Congress has held more than 100 hearings on health care since 2007. Democrats in Congress have held close to 3,000 health care events in our districts. Three committees in the House have spent 160 hours on hearings and markups of health care legislation. Much of the new health care reform bill has been available for review and comment for more than six months. And the full text of the bill will be publicly available for at least 72 hours before Members of Congress are asked to vote. I believe that it is important to get as much feedback as possible from my constituents before I vote on health care reform. I have been holding town halls and meetings with folks back in the district during the past several months – including meetings with local doctors, patients, small business and hospitals. Since July, I have held two in-person town halls attended by over 3,000 people, and one telephone town hall listened to by over 3,500 people. I participated in a League of Women Voters health care forum in Coupeville that was attended by over 300 people. I have held nearly 30 meetings on health care reform in the district. I have responded to over 20,000 constituent letters about health care reform. Q: Why does Congress need to pass the bill using the reconciliation process? I support taking an up or down vote on health care reform. Congress is using a legitimate process to get us to the finish line on health care reform. Health care reform already passed in the House with a majority and in the Senate with a super-majority. The American people deserve an up or down vote on final health care reform legislation. This process is not overly controversial, nor has it been rarely used: it has been used 22 times since 1980, by both parties. Q: Is the “Cornhusker kickback” in the bill? No. The final health care reform bill strips out the “Cornhusker kickback” and other special deals. CONGRESSMAN LARSEN’S POSITIONS ON HEALTH CARE REFORMQ: Do you support the final health care reform bill? If so, why? After a full review of the final health care reform bill, I will support this important legislation. The status quo in health care is unacceptable. American families and small businesses are crippled by the staggering costs of premiums. We can not afford inaction. This health care reform bill will immediately start lowering the costs of health care to make coverage more affordable for families and to ensure small businesses no longer have to choose between health care and hiring. Since the House of Representatives began crafting health care reform legislation, we have made great progress for Washington state. I brought local concerns to the attention of leadership in Washington, D.C. and fought hard to make sure the health care reform bill includes a fair deal for Washington state. Specifically, I pushed to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. I believe that a vote in favor of the Affordable Health Care for America Act is the right vote for Washington’s 2nd Congressional district.Q: What do you like about the bill? This bill implements common-sense rules of the road for insurance companies that will protect consumers from abusive practices and bring more choice and competition to our health care system. Under the current system, small businesses pay 18 percent more in premiums than large firms and their deductibles are more than double. Our health care reform package will immediately work to eliminate these inequities by offering tax credits to business owners who purchase coverage for their employees. Small businesses are the engine of job growth in this country and in this economy we need them to use their dollars to fuel payrolls—not skyrocketing premiums. Finally, this bill strengthens and improves Medicare for seniors by closing the donut hole, rooting out waste, fraud and abuse from the system and making sure seniors continue to have access to the doctors they choose. As we work our way out of this recession, we need to pass legislation that will make health care more affordable for consumers and our nation. By immediately lowering costs for families and business and by reducing the deficit by $1 trillion over the next two decades this bill is fiscally responsible and will help us create a sustainable economic environment for the future.Q: Do you support a public option? I supported the public option that was included in the House health care reform bill. It would have worked for Washington state. It would have been subject to the same rules that private insurance plans are subject to and it would not be subsidized by the government. Unfortunately, the public option is not included in the final health care reform bill. Q: Do you support single-payer health care? I do not support HR 676, legislation that would create a single-payer system by expanding Medicare, because I believe in preserving patient choice and competition, which creates incentives for doctors to provide a high level of care. I would vote against an amendment to create a single-payer system if it came up for a vote in the House. I want health care reform to happen – and that’s why I’m working to reform health care and get reform that works for Washington state. Reforming health care will mean no discrimination for pre-existing conditions. No dropping your coverage because you get sick. No more job or life decisions made based on loss of coverage. No need to change doctors or plans. No co-pays for preventive care. No excessive out-of-pocket expenses, deductibles, or co-pays. No yearly or lifetime cost caps on what insurance companies cover. HEALTH CARE REFORM MYTHSQ: Does this bill mandate government funding of abortion? Will my taxpayer dollars be paying for abortions? The bill does not mandate government funding of abortion. In fact, the bill was amended to specifically ensure that no federal funds go towards abortion services. The bill maintains current law by prohibiting federal funds from being used to pay for abortion (except in cases of rape, incest, and to save the life of the woman). No health insurance plan in the Exchanges would be required to cover abortion services. If a health insurance plan does cover abortion services, funds for this purpose must be segregated from other funds, including affordability credits. Only private premium dollars can be used to provide abortion coverage. In addition, President Obama issued an executive order providing additional safeguards to ensure that current law prohibiting federal funding of abortion services is upheld and enforced. This executive order will help ensure that the health care reform bill’s restrictions against federal funding of abortion services cannot be circumvented. Q: Will illegal aliens get government-funded health care? No. The health care reform bill specifically prevents illegal aliens from receiving government-funded health care. Only U.S. citizens and legal immigrants are eligible to receive premium credits through the Exchanges. Q: Isn’t it unconstitutional to require citizens to have health insurance? Where in the Constitution does say that people must have health insurance? There is no explicit clause within the Constitution that states health care is a fundamental right, or that states that citizens must have health coverage. However, Congress has historically provided funding to pay for the health services provided under law (Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP). Most of these statutes have been enacted pursuant to Congress's authority to "make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper" to carry out its mandate "to … provide for the … general Welfare." The power to spend for the general welfare is one of the broadest grants of authority to Congress in the U.S. Constitution. The Supreme Court allows considerable latitude to a legislative decision by Congress that a particular health care spending program provides for the general welfare. Specifically, the Necessary and Proper Clause (commonly referred to as the Elastic Clause) grants the federal government of the United States the flexibility to create laws or otherwise to act where the Constitution does not give it the explicit authority to act. The Taxing and Spending Clause (commonly referred to as the General Welfare clause) grants the federal government of the United States its power of taxation. This is open to interpretation, but the broader view of Alexander Hamilton that spending is an enumerated power that Congress may exercise independently to benefit the general welfare, such as to assist national needs in agriculture or education, provided that the spending is general in nature and does not favor any specific section of the country over any other.Q: This bill contains sweetheart deals for unions. No, it does not. This rumor came from the deal that the Administration made with House Democrats and labor unions in January. The deal would have delayed the excise tax on high-cost insurance plans for five years, but only for collectively bargained plans (until 2018). The final health care bill delays the excise tax until 2018 for all plans. It also raises the thresholds so that significantly less people are subject to the tax. Q: Is health care reform going to lead to socialized medicine? Health care reform will not socialize our health care system. To me, socializing health care means making our health care system more like Great Britain, where the government owns hospitals and employs physicians; or like Canada, where the government pays for every citizen’s health care. To be clear, President Obama and Congress are not proposing anything like this. Under the House health care reform bill, if you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor. If you like the health care coverage you have, you will be able to keep it. I share some of your concerns about the role of the federal government. I’m a strong believer in free market economy, and I believe that the government should step in to pass rules and regulations or legislation only when it’s needed, and particularly when doing so levels the playing field for consumers. I believe that reforming health care is a critical priority. Today, our health care system is broken, and it needs to be fixed. The status quo is unacceptable. Families and business are faced with skyrocketing costs. Since 2001, health care premiums have grown four times faster than wages. Health care costs are breaking the bank for families, for small businesses and governments. Reforming health care will mean no discrimination for pre-existing conditions. No dropping your coverage because you get sick. No more job or life decisions made based on loss of coverage. No need to change doctors or plans. No co-pays for preventive care. No excessive out-of-pocket expenses, deductibles, or co-pays. No yearly or lifetime cost caps on what insurance companies cover.
04.16.2010	Washington, D.C. — —U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement about this week’s Senate hearings on the failure of Washington Mutual. Larsen points to the hearings as a strong case for the need to protect consumers and enact Wall Street reforms. A report to be released Friday by the inspectors general of the Treasury Department and the FDIC found that WaMu’s two federal regulators, the FDIC and the Office of Thrift Supervision, could not agree on how to regulate the bank and who should be the primary regulator. As a result neither regulator took action to stop WaMu’s risky behavior until days before the bank failed. “This week’s hearings paint a picture of a bank that sold risky mortgages to unsuspecting homeowners in order to rake in huge profits. Federal regulators turned a blind eye to these risky practices and allowed Washington Mutual to gamble with our future. “This reckless behavior at the expense of consumers helped bring about the greatest financial crisis of our time. It was the largest bank failure in U.S. history and resulted in thousands of job losses in Northwest Washington.“Federal regulators were asleep at the switch while WaMu made tens of thousands of risky loans. Consumers suffered as big banks put the interests of big profits and big bonuses ahead of working families. “The WaMu hearings and the inspectors general report provide a sobering reminder of the urgent need for financial regulatory reform. We must prevent a crisis like this from happening again by imposing strong oversight of financial firms like WaMu and protecting American consumers from unfair and abusive financial products like WaMu’s risky mortgages. “I urge the Senate to act quickly and pass financial regulatory reform so that financial firms like WaMu will no longer be allowed to drive American families and our country’s economy off a cliff in the future. Larsen voted for the House financial regulatory reform bill that would prevent a situation like WaMu from happening again. The House bill would: Consolidate federal banking and thrift regulators: WaMu’s risky actions were never stopped by federal regulators because its two regulators could never agree on who was doing the regulating. This will help ensure that financial firms like WaMu are subject to strong oversight by a single federal regulator. Curb abusive lending practices: The House bill protects consumers from financial abuse by creating a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services. A Consumer Financial Protection Agency could have the authority to ban the risky loans WaMu sold to unwitting homeowners – loans that are still legal today despite the damage they did to the economy and the lives of many Americans. ###
04.15.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) highlighted several tax relief provisions that he fought to provide for hardworking families and small businesses in the 2nd District of Washington. In the past year, Larsen supported legislation that has provided over $200 billion in tax relief and income support to working families and small businesses across America. “In these tough economic times, hardworking families in Northwest Washington deserve some financial relief. I am proud to have supported one of the largest tax cuts in history that has put hard earned money back in the pockets of 95% of working Americans, including 291,000 families from Everett to Bellingham.“Since April 15, 2009, I have fought to make key investments in our roads, bridges and highways that have put our friends and neighbors back to work, and to protect consumers from the worst abuses in the health care industry and to make college affordable for thousands of students.“I have supported legislation that has provided over $200 billion in tax relief to working families and small businesses across America. These tax cuts have created jobs, enabled families to purchase their first home, and helped small businesses get the tools they need to grow and start hiring again. “Tax breaks I supported have helped save or create as many as 1.4 million jobs across the nation, according to a report released this week by the Council of Economic Advisors. “Small businesses have enjoyed $40 billion in tax cuts that will help them grow and create jobs. “Nearly 33,000 families across the state of Washington were able to achieve the dream of homeownership by receiving an $8,000 tax credit thanks to the First-Time Homebuyers Tax Credit that I supported. “And I have fought to end the era of big bank bailouts by voting for legislation that will protect American taxpayers from Wall Street’s reckless behavior.###
04.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement in response to the President signing the New START Treaty. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services’ Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which oversees nuclear weapons for the United States.“I congratulate President Obama on signing the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with Russia. The President’s commitment to reducing the number of nuclear warheads will make the world a safer place.“The New START Treaty will require the United States and Russia, the two largest nuclear powers in the world, to reduce the number of strategic nuclear warheads and launchers. This will send a strong message to the global community about our commitment to ending proliferation and securing nuclear materials around the world.“This treaty will also allow the U.S. to maintain a safe and secure nuclear arsenal which will ensure that we protect our national security by maintaining defensive capabilities."Next week, President Obama will host leaders from around the world at a summit on nuclear security. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to achieve a vision of a world without nuclear weapons.“As proven by months of negotiations, achieving tangible results from diplomacy can be difficult. I commend the Administration for working hard to reach an agreement with Russia that serves both of our nations’ interests and sends a strong message about the need to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons globally. I urge the Senate to ratify this treaty as quickly as possible. ###
04.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement in response to Secretary Geithner’s announcement that he will visit China on Thursday to discuss currency with the Vice Premier. Larsen is the co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group and met with Vice Premier Wan Quishan in both Beijing and Washington, D.C. last year. China is the largest and more rapidly growing export market for Washington state. “I applaud Secretary Geithner’s continued attention to the US-China bilateral relationship. There are many critical issues facing both nations, and the Secretary’s visit to China sends an important message that these matters are of utmost importance to the U.S. government.“As China reviews whether to remove the RMBs current peg to the dollar, a strong message from the Administration that the Chinese currency must be allowed to appreciate against the dollar is important.“However, while currency is a critical issue, we must not forget that the United States has many relationships with China and continued dialogue on this and other important issues such as the Chinese Indigenous Innovation policy must remain a priority for this Administration.###
04.06.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement after President Obama released his Nuclear Posture Review. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services’ Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, which oversees nuclear weapons around the globe.“The Obama Administration’s Nuclear Posture Review will strengthen America’s national security by preventing the spread of nuclear weapons across the globe. “The NPR makes it clear that terrorist groups and states that possess nuclear weapons are a grave threat to our national security. It prioritizes stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and securing nuclear materials that could be used to harm the United States and our allies. “The NPR also maintains America’s role as a leader in non-proliferation by demonstrating our commitment to continuing a safe, secure, and reliable nuclear deterrent without resorting to nuclear testing. While I share the President’s goal of creating a world without nuclear weapons, it is important to have a deterrent capability to keep Americans safe as long as other states possess nuclear materials.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I look forward to participating in hearings on the NPR in the coming weeks. ###
04.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement in reaction to news of an explosion at the Tesoro refinery in Anacortes.“I was shocked to hear the tragic news of the explosion at the Tesoro refinery this morning. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the victims of this horrible event. I am ready to help them in any way I can. It is my understanding that investigating the cause of an explosion like this will take time. I encourage as timely and as complete an investigation as possible in order to prevent similar tragedies in the future.###
03.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement praising President Obama and President Medvedev for agreeing to the most comprehensive arms control agreement in nearly two decades. “I applaud President Obama for reaching agreement on a historic arms reduction treaty with Russia. This treaty will make our country safer, it will enhance our ability to fight the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and it will improve the important relationship we have with Russia.“In April 2009, President Obama gave a speech in Prague that set forth his vision of a world without nuclear weapons. Getting to zero will be a long journey, but this arms reduction treaty is an important step in the right direction.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, I look forward to reviewing this treaty in detail.” ###
03.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the largest single investment in aid that will help students and families pay for college. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) will shift all new federal student lending to the Direct Loan program, generating funds that will be reinvested in Pell Grants, community colleges and other education initiatives — all at no cost to taxpayers. “Tuition for undergraduates is soaring at record rates. Investing in student loan reform will help students and families afford these sky-rocketing tuition payments,” said Rep. Larsen. “During these tough economic times, it’s essential that we provide the next generation with the tools they need to attend college and get career training so they can secure good jobs after graduation.” The legislation, which is now on its way to the President to be signed into law, would save $61 billion over 10 years by ending subsidies to banks, replacing that with direct-to-student lending by the federal government. About $10 billion of the savings would be set aside to reduce the federal budget deficit, $13.5 billion would be used to cover the shortfall in the Pell Grant program and $23 billion to increase the size of the grants. “By ending subsidies to banks, we are taking money from the big banks that drove us into this fiscal mess and putting it back in the pockets of mom and dad so they can afford to send their kids to college,” said Rep. Larsen. “Student loan reform will being much-needed financial relief to students and families left struggling under the enormous weight of tuition costs and loan repayments.”This bill also includes an increase in government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. Annual Pell grants would increase from $5,550 to $5,975 by 2017. Pell Grant funding for Washington would roughly double over the next year to $464 million under the measure.###
03.24.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined students from Western Washington University (WWU) to talk about his recent vote for the largest single investment in aid that will help students and families pay for college. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) will shift all new federal student lending to the Direct Loan program, generating funds that will be reinvested in Pell Grants, community colleges and other education initiatives — all at no cost to taxpayers. “Tuition for undergraduates at Western Washington University has risen by 100% in the last decade. Investing in student loan reform will help students afford these sky-rocketing tuition payments,” said Rep. Larsen. “During these tough economic times, it’s essential that we provide the next generation with the tools they need to attend college and get career training so they can secure good jobs after graduation.” The WWU students are in Washington, DC to lobby U.S. Senators to join the House in passing the bill so it can go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The legislation, which has already passed the House, would save $61 billion over 10 years by ending subsidies to banks, replacing that with direct-to-student lending by the federal government. About $10 billion of the savings would be set aside to reduce the federal budget deficit, $13.5 billion would be used to cover the shortfall in the Pell Grant program and $23 billion to increase the size of the grants. “By ended subsidies to banks, we are taking money from the big banks that drove us into this fiscal mess and putting it back in the pockets of mom and dad so they can afford to send their kids to college,” said Rep. Larsen. “Student loan reform will bring much-needed financial relief to students and families left struggling under the enormous weight of tuition costs and loan repayments.”“Many students at WWU would not be able to attend college without federal loans,” said Matt Jarrell, President of Associated Students of WWU. “Expanding student aid will make the dream of higher education a reality by making college affordable for more students and families.”This bill also includes an increase in government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. Annual Pell grants would increase from $5,550 to $5,975 by 2017. And for the first time, the grants would increase as the cost of living rises. Pell Grant funding for Washington would roughly double over the next year to $464 million under the measure. ###
03.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — Tonight, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) hosted a telephone town hall meeting with close to 6,500 constituents from the 2nd Congressional District of Washington state to discuss jobs, the economy and health care. “I want to thank everyone who took time out of their evening to join tonight’s call. It was a great chance for me to have a conversation with folks back home about important local and national issues,” said Rep. Larsen. “Communicating with my constituents about the work I am doing to create jobs, grow our economy and make health care more affordable is one of my top priorities. Bringing local ideas to Congress helps me find solutions that work for families and small businesses in Washington state.”Rep. Larsen hosted tonight’s call as part of an effort to increase opportunities for constituents to interact with him while Congress is in session. Close to 6,500 constituents called in to ask Larsen questions about jobs, the economy and his recent vote to pass health care reform legislation.“It’s clear from listening to folks in Northwest Washington that the status quo is unacceptable. People are concerned about the state of the economy and how the new health care reform law will affect them,” said Rep. Larsen. “It was great to have the opportunity to help local small business owners, families and seniors understand how health care reform will immediately start working to lower the costs of health care and provide much-needed financial relief as we grow our way out of this recession.“People also want to know what we are doing to change the underlying rules that helped to create this recession in the first place,” said Rep. Larsen. “I am working hard to make sure we end the Era of Big Bang Bailouts. My view is that if in the future a large bank wants to drive off a cliff, let them. But no longer will the American people be trapped in the car as the innocent passenger.”###
03.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in response to recent news stories regarding the final ruling by the World Trade Organization (WTO) on aircraft subsidies to Airbus by the European Union.“According to today’s media reports, the WTO has finally said ‘it’s over’ to European governments that subsidize Airbus.“European countries can appeal this case for years, but they can not change the facts. Launch Aid is illegal and it hurts American workers. As Airbus moves forward, they need to reverse course, comply with the WTO, and not utilize these subsidies to develop the A350.“Today’s ruling sends a strong message to our workers that we will not sit on the sidelines while Europe pumps up Airbus with illegal fiscal steroids. Aerospace workers in the Northwest are the best in the world, and I will continue to do all I can to support the good-paying jobs which Boeing provides to my constituents.“As the Department of Defense moves forward with buying the next generation of aerial refueling tankers, they need to resolve this conflict between our trade and defense procurement policies so we can make sure the American taxpayers don’t foot the bill for illegal European subsidies.“I thank the office of the United States Trade Representative for their hard work. The USTR’s efforts to enforce our trade laws protects American jobs from unfair competition.###
03.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) asked Congress to provide federal funding for 2nd District priorities, selecting 35 of 155 requests he received to pass on to the House Appropriations Committee. The requests Larsen made reflect a large range of local needs in all six counties he represents with a focus on making key investments to grow the economy, create and sustain jobs and support local law enforcement to keep our communities safe. This is the third year that Larsen has made his earmark requests public. Larsen, in the interest of accountability and transparency for his constituents, began voluntarily posting his appropriations requests before House disclosure rules required all Members of Congress to post their requests online.“I received a large number of appropriations requests from local constituents, communities and organizations,” said Rep. Larsen. “After careful consideration, I selected 35 requests that will make key investments in a range of needs for communities in Northwest Washington to help grow and support jobs and spur economic growth in our region.” In reviewing requests, Larsen considered whether the project is a valuable use of taxpayer funds, if it meets 2nd District needs and priorities, if it is prepared to use federal funding effectively, and if it can be funded in an earmarked account. The House Appropriations Committee will evaluate all the requests it receives to determine which merit funding.“In the interest of transparency and accountability, I encourage my constituents to go online to www.house.gov/larsen to view my full list of funding requests,” said Larsen. Larsen’s requests to the Appropriations Committee are listed below, organized by the bill in which they would be funded and listed alphabetically. The list complies with House transparency rules by listing the name of the project, the entity that would receive funding, the address of the organization and the project’s purpose. Agriculture:Organic Cropping Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $500,000 for research into priorities identified by Northwest organic farmers including developing wheat varieties for organic systems, seed treatments for organic vegetable production, and studying economic trends in organic production. Several of these projects have the potential to advance sustainable agriculture on a national scale. There are nearly 700 certified organic farms in Washington state. Washington state is second in the nation in “farmgate” sales of organic products directly from the producer with $159.8 million sold.Pacific Northwest Small Fruit Center Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $500,000 for research into plant breeding, pest management, genetic research, and processing methods for small fruits. The Center helps Northwest farmers integrate scientific research into their farming and processing. Research done by the Center is focused on profitable and environmentally-responsible farming and production practices. Washington state leads the country in raspberry production and is a leading producer of other berries and grapes as well. In 2009, Washington raised 64 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $64 million.Protecting the Pacific Northwest Grape and Wine Industry from Plant Viruses Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $300,000 to combat the presence or spread of devastating plant viruses affecting the Grape and Wine Industry. The Washington state wine, grape and grape juice industries provide approximately 19,000 jobs and contribute $3 billion annually to the state’s economy. Washington is the largest producer of juice grapes and the second largest producer of premium wine grapes in the United States. Around 900 Pacific Northwest wineries depend upon the production of quality wine grapes. This project would help to ensure that planting materials entering the Northwest are virus-free, that our vineyards remain virus-free, and that we prolong the longevity of the industry.Small Fruits Initiative – Plant Improvement Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research 4845 B SW Dresden Ave Corvallis, OR $1.35 million for research into eliminating fruit diseases that plague small fruit crops in the Northwest, including berries and grapes. Washington State leads the nation in red raspberry production. In 2009, Washington raised 64 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $64 million. Funding for this center is crucial for raspberry production and other small fruit industries.Washington Agricultural Competitiveness Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $1 million to identify and expand international trade opportunities and domestic marketing opportunities for Washington state agricultural products. Washington state's $42 billion food and agriculture industry employs 160,000 people and contributes 13% percent to the state's economy. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Exporting Washington agricultural goods to foreign nations and marketing our products in new domestic markets will support this important industry and create new jobs across the state. Commerce, Justice, Science:Automated Field Reporting Infrastructure Improvement Project Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office 3000 Rockefeller Avenue M/S 606 Everett, WA 98201 $1.22 million to provide first responders and emergency services managers in the Snohomish County Sheriff’s Office with the tools they need to keep our community safe. This funding will purchase equipment and software to increase the speed and efficiency at which mission-critical information is exchanged.Border Prosecution “FASTRACK” Project Whatcom County 311 Grand Avenue Bellingham, WA $560,000 to provide law enforcement services to Whatcom County to improve the local criminal justice system, and reduce the backlog of border related prosecutions.Campaign for Kids Project Whatcom County Boys and Girls Club 1715 Kentucky St. Bellingham, WA $205,460 to create 160 local family-wage jobs to improve local infrastructure to Pioneer Park, where there are many ball fields, parks and quality-of-life investments. Multi-State Drug Trafficking Prevention Program Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force (SRDTF) 3000 Rockefeller Avenue, M/S 606 Everett, WA $836,000 to provide constant and professional investigation to disrupt drug trafficking organizations in Northwest Washington and prevent dangerous drugs from making their way onto the streets by attacking the upper levels of drug trafficking organizations. Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative (NSMCI) Northwest Straits Commission 10441 Bayview Edison Rd Mount Vernon, WA $2 million to restore and protect the northwest region of Puget Sound which supports marine species and habitats that contribute directly to the economic vitality of Washington state. Funding would support research, stewardship, and restoration efforts to protect commercially and ecologically valuable species, like salmon, rockfish, Dungeness crab, seabirds, and marine mammals.Washington State Meth Initiative Pierce County Alliance 510 Tacoma Avenue South Tacoma, WA $2.5 million to enable the Meth Initiative to continue their program efforts, which include investigations of clandestine meth labs, treatment programs for those addicted to methamphetamine, and the mobilization of Meth Action Teams in Washington state that engage in local education and prevention efforts. Continued federal funding will also allow the Meth Initiative to target new threats, including the growth in meth trafficking along the I-5 corridor. Defense:National Guard Employment Enhancement Project Washington Military Department Camp Murray Building 104 Tacoma, WA $1.5 million to establish a pilot program to help unemployed and underemployed national guardsmen find work. The Washington National Guard Bureau will work with union apprenticeship programs, trade associations, educational institutions, and government agencies to help guardsmen acquire the skills they need to obtain a living-wage job.Western Regional Counterdrug Training Center Washington Military Department Camp Murray Building 104 Tacoma, WA $2 million to support continuing operations at the Western Regional Counterdrug Training Center in Washington state. This Center helps train federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement officials in drug interdiction so they can continue to keep our communities safe from methamphetamine and other dangerous drugs. Energy and Water:Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 E. Marginal Way S. Seattle, WA 98124 $7 million to help restore and recover Puget Sound, which will benefit Washington state's economy and industries such as shipping, fishing and shellfish production, agriculture, outdoor recreation, and tourism.Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 E. Marginal Way S. Seattle, WA $1.5 million to evaluate the factors that are causing the habitat to decline and pollution to occur in the Puget Sound Basin, evaluate potential solutions to these problems, and recommend a series of actions and restoration projects that will lead to recovery.Skagit River General Investigation Study Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 E. Marginal Way S. Seattle, WA $1.2 million to continue the Skagit River General Investigation study to analyze various flood control projects in order to protect citizens and infrastructure impacted from a 100-year flood event of the Skagit River. Over the past 20 years, the Skagit River has flooded nearly every other year at a cost of tens of millions of dollars.Swinomish Channel Dredging Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 E. Marginal Way S. Seattle, WA 98124 $850,000 to dredge the Swinomish Channel to allow commercial and recreational vessels to safely pass through the channel. Log tow companies, rock haulers, boat builders, fish processors and many others depend on the Channel for their livelihood. The Channel supports an estimated $93 million in economic activity per year. Interior:Blaine Wastewater Treatment Plant Relocation Project City of Blaine 1200 Yew Avenue Blaine, WA $1 million to help fund the final phase of the Blaine Wastewater Treatment Plant Relocation Project. The final phase of the project will abandon the existing treatment plant and redirect sewage flow to the new treatment plant by constructing new pumping and conveyance facilities. This project will improve local infrastructure, enable economic growth for the City of Blaine, and ensure clean drinking water for the residents of Blaine.Everett to Tulalip Water Pipeline Tulalip Tribes and City of Everett Joint Board for Managing the Construction of the Everett to Tulalip Waterline 3319 Federal Ave Everett, WA $1 million to help complete a section of a 7.5 mile long water supply pipeline to provide a long-term supply of water to the Tulalip Tribes and to Smith Island in the City of Everett. The Tulalip Tribes Utilities water system has reached the limit of its available supply and the demands on the Tribes' water system are expected to exceed its supply capacity in a few years. Protecting the Heritage Lands of Ebey's Reserve Trust Board of Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve 162 Cemetery Road, PO Box 774 Coupeville, WA $3 million to purchase conservation easements on hundreds of acres of farmland within Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve. Ebey’s Landing was created by Congress in 1978 to protect the “cultural landscape” of Coupeville and central Whidbey Island, and this funding will help ensure that working farmland stays in production. Labor, Health and Human Services:Center of Excellence for Marine Manufacturing & Technology Skagit Valley College, Whidbey Island Campus 1900 SE Pioneer Way Oak Harbor, WA $250,000 to provide short-term intensive certified and credentialed professional development and skills enhancement training in electronic systems and advanced materials for the marine manufacturing and repair/refit sectors of Northwest Washington State. The need for accessible certified and credentialed technical training is critical to job retention and growth in Northwest Washington. A twelve month training calendar will be created, disseminated and marketed within the region.Community Health Improvement Initiative United General Hospital 2000 Hospital Drive Sedro Woolley, WA $500,000 to be used to purchase and update equipment for United Hospital's Community Health Improvement Initiative. Approximately 30 percent of Skagit County residents are obese, and United routinely has difficulty providing the necessary tests and care because of limited resources. United needs to upgrade their equipment to accommodate these individuals. Another scarce resource at United is Intensive Care Unit (ICU) capability. United is seeking funding to support an electronic ICU consultation to allow other local hospitals to consult and assist physicians and nurses at United with the treatment of critical patients.Dental Education in the Care of Persons with Disabilities University of Washington 301 Gerberding Hall Seattle, WA $870,000 to help renovate the University of Washington's 35-year-old Dental Education in the Care of Persons with Disabilities (DECOD) facility, which will significantly expand service capacity, provide more treatment options, and allow a higher degree of quality care for patients. The DECOD facility provides dental care for patients with disabilities from across Washington state.Everett Community College Workforce Training Facility Everett Community College 2000 Tower Street Everett, WA $3 million to lease and renovate a safe, up-to-date classroom and shop facility to house Everett Community College’s high demand Welding and Fabrication workforce development program. The College has advanced education and training for Snohomish County and regional jobs for nearly 70 years. Constructed in 1958, Monte Cristo Hall houses Welding and Fabrication, one of the College’s highest demand workforce development programs.Peace Island Medical Center Peace Health 2901 Squalicum Parkway Bellingham, WA $1 million to help purchase medical equipment for a new Critical Access Hospital in Friday Harbor on San Juan Island, Washington. This new facility will help address significant health care access issues that exist for this remote community. The new hospital will expand access to primary care and basic acute care services. Summer Jobs Program Northwest Workforce Council 101 Prospect Street, PO Box 2009 Bellingham, WA $1.46 million to provide opportunities for youth and young adults to develop workplace competencies and soft skills that are severely limited by the recession-driven lack of jobs and high unemployment. The Northwest Workforce Council would create 488 paid internship jobs and training for youth in support of the Northwest’s key industries: health and allied services, marine industries, advanced manufacturing, and energy-related and Green initiatives. Wages from these internships help their families, and quickly boost the economies in Whatcom, Skagit, Island, and San Juan Counties. Veterans and Students Service Initiative Washington Campus Compact c/o Western Washington University 516 High St., MS5291 Bellingham, WA $300,000 to allow veterans and college students to develop workforce skills, engage veterans in service activities, and create capacity for nonprofits to meet community needs. The economic downturn has created pressure on college students to be better prepared to meet the demands of a challenging employment environment. The influx of veterans in the college system has created an opportunity for colleges and communities to harness their service ethic and motivation to continue to serve. Community agencies, while also feeling the impacts of the economic downturn, are uniquely situated to provide service and learning opportunities for veterans and students to develop their own skills while meeting critical community needs such as hunger, environmental, and/or human service concerns. Transportation, Housing and Urban Development:Anderson LaVenture Extension Project Skagit County 1800 Continental Place Mount Vernon, WA $2 million to help construct a new arterial roadway connecting South Laventure Road, an existing north-south arterial in eastern Mount Vernon, to the Anderson Road freeway interchange. This will ease congestion on Interstate-5 and provide an alternative route in the rapidly developing areas of eastern Mount Vernon. Mount Vernon Downtown Riverfront Promenade and Trail Project City of Mount Vernon 910 Cleveland Avenue Mount Vernon, WA $2 million to help complete construction of a riverfront promenade and trail in downtown Mount Vernon. This project is a central part of Mount Vernon's downtown riverfront redevelopment project and will improve public pedestrian access to the Skagit River.Everett Transit Hybrid Bus and Paratransit Vehicle Procurement Everett Transit 3225 Cedar Street Everett, WA $1.2 million to help Everett Transit purchase two ultra-clean hybrid diesel-electric buses and five paratransit mini-vans. The additional paratransit mini-vans would allow Everett Transit to offer 30,000 more trips per year to transit-dependent communities and the additional fixed route hybrid coaches would expand capacity and add 105,000 boardings yearly. Expanding Everett Transit’s fleet would allow them to sustain and grow transportation service levels within the City and promote a more livable community.Friday Harbor Ferry Terminal Pedestrian Access and Safety Improvements Washington State Department of Transportation 310 Maple Park Avenue SE Olympia, WA $230,000 to improve pedestrian safety and circulation, ferry loading and offloading efficiency and schedule reliability at the Friday Harbor Ferry Terminal. Currently pedestrians crossing Front Street and Spring Street in an uncontrolled manner create conflicts with vehicle loading and offloading operations near the ferry terminal. Gold Bar Pedestrian Access Project City of Gold Bar 107 5th Street Gold Bar, WA $520,000 to construct a safe walkway and bicycle route to connect a 100 residence area of Gold Bar to the city center. This project provides a safe walk/bike route for citizens without car transportation and will benefit commercial retail development that creates jobs.Senior Services of Snohomish County Service Delivery Facility Senior Services of Snohomish County 8225 4th Ave W Suite O Mukilteo, WA $500,000 to help Senior Services of Snohomish County build a 35,000 square foot Service Delivery Facility to accommodate all of its service programs including nutrition, transportation, housing, and social services under one roof.SR 20 Corridor Freight Mobility and Revitalization Project City of Sedro Woolley 325 Metcalf Sedro Woolley, WA $820,000 to design and acquire right-of-way for a project that will extend and reconstruct existing roads in the City of Sedro Woolley, providing the transportation infrastructure necessary to support local commercial development and long-term job creation. ###
03.22.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded an announcement by the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) that they submitted a project in Everett on their list of priority projects to receive high-speed rail funding. The proposed Everett Storage Track will create jobs and enhance the quality of commuting around the region by relieving congestion and increasing on-time performance.“I am pleased that the Washington State Department of Transportation included the Everett Storage Track on its list of priority projects for high-speed rail funding,” said Rep. Larsen. “This project will create much-needed jobs and boost our local economy by making it easier for commuters and commerce to get from point to point.”Washington state received funding through the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail program, the majority of which has been proposed to enhance travel between Portland and Seattle. This project in Everett will add two new tracks near the existing Delta Yard tracks to reduce freight train congestion and improve overall on-time performance for Amtrak passenger trains. ###
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for historic health care reform legislation to make health care more affordable and secure for American families, small businesses and seniors. “Health care reform has always been about one thing: the American people. Tonight I voted for health care reform that will immediately begin to lower the cost of health care for American families, small businesses and seniors. “This health care reform bill is about instilling common-sense rules of the road to hold insurance companies accountable. We will immediately put an end to their abusive practices like arbitrarily hiking premiums, denying people coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and dropping patients from their plans when they get sick. “I voted for this bill because of my constituent from Bellingham, who fell into the Medicare Part D “donut hole” in May last year and saw her prescription drug bills skyrocket. This health care reform legislation will immediately begin to close the donut hole and strengthen Medicare so seniors like her can count on affordable prescription drugs and better benefits for years to come.“I voted for this bill because of a constituent from Clinton, who decided not to go to the hospital and get checked out after he fell and broke his ribs because the visit wasn’t covered by his high-deductible health plan and he couldn’t afford to pay out of pocket. This bill will immediately begin to lower the cost of health care for families who are already struggling to make ends meet in this economy. “This bill will give the power back to the American consumer. It preserves choice and creates competition in the insurance market. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you change jobs, you can keep your coverage. “I voted for this bill because of another constituent, a small business owner, who pays $50,000 out-of-pocket annually for his family’s individual health insurance plan. This bill will immediately begin to lower costs from small businesses so they no longer have to choose between health care and hiring. “This bill will provide much-needed financial relief to small business owners by offering them tax credits when they purchase coverage for their employees. Small businesses are the engine of job growth in this country and in this economy we need them to use their dollars to fuel payrolls—not out of control premiums.“I also fought hard to make sure the health care reform bill included a fair deal for Washington state. I pushed to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. This bill includes language to fix the long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care in Washington state. This is a huge victory for our state.The following are among the hundreds of organizations who have announced their support for the health care reform legislation: AARPAFSCMEAcademic Medical CentersAlliance for Retired Americans American Academy of Child and Adult PsychiatryAmerican Academy of Family PhysiciansAmerican Academy of PediatricsAmerican Academy of Physician AssistantsAmerican Association for Cancer ResearchAmerican College of Nurse MidwivesAmerican College of PhysiciansAmerican Diabetes AssociationAmerican Heart AssociationAmerican Hospital AssociationAmerican Hospice FoundationAmerican Nurses AssociationAmerican Psychological AssociationAmerican Public Health AssociationAutism Society of AmericaBrain Injury Association of AmericaBreast Cancer Network of StrengthCampaign for Tobacco Free KidsChildren’s Defense FundFamilies USA Fight Crime: Invest in KidsFriends Committee on National LegislationHealth Care for America NowHealthHIVHispanic Chamber of CommerceInternational Brotherhood of Boilermakers, IronShip Builders, Blacksmiths, Forgers and HelpersInternational Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)Lutheran Health NetworkNAACPNational Association of Community Health CentersNational Association of Public Hospitals and Health SystemsNational Committee to Preserve Social Security and MedicareNational Hispanic Council on AgingNational Medical AssociationNational Women’s Law CenterParalyzed Veterans of AmericaRESULTSSchool Social Work Association of AmericaService Employees International UnionThe Arc of the United StatesTourette Syndrome Association United Association of Journeymen & Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipe Fitting Industry of the US and CanadaUnited Methodist Church- General Board of Church and SocietyVolunteers of America###
03.18.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in support of health care reform legislation that will immediately lower the cost of health care for American families and businesses, protect consumers and strengthen Medicare for seniors. “Health care reform is about instilling common-sense rules of the road to hold insurance companies accountable. We will immediately put an end to their abusive practices like arbitrarily hiking premiums, denying people coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and dropping patients from their plans when they get sick. “Health care reform will lower the cost of health care and give the power back to the American consumer. It preserves choice and creates competition in the insurance market. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you change jobs, you can keep your coverage. “The skyrocketing cost of health care is forcing small businesses to choose between health care and hiring. This bill will provide much-needed financial relief to small business owners by offering them tax credits when they purchase coverage for their employees. Small businesses are the engine of job growth in this country and in this economy we need them to use their dollars to fuel payrolls—not out of control premiums. “Health reform means that the Medicare trust fund will be around so seniors can count on their benefits for years to come. This bill will improve their coverage and ensure access to Medicare prescriptions by beginning to close the donut hole this year. “Today’s CBO report confirms that this bill is fiscally responsible and will reduce the deficit by $138 billion in the decade and by $1.2 trillion in 20 years. This bill will help us build a foundation for long-term future growth by tackling the unsustainable cost of health care and providing much-needed financial relief for families and businesses. ###
03.10.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised today’s announcement by the Coast Guard that the Polar Star icebreaker will be reactivated – a move that will create jobs in Northwest Washington and strengthen the Coast Guard’s capabilities in the Arctic region. The Polar Star Cutter is one of the Coast Guard’s three multi-mission icebreakers that are homeported in Seattle. The Polar Star has been in caretaker status which significantly decreases the capabilities of the ship at a time when icebreaking capabilities are needed more than ever. “Reactivating the Polar Star icebreaker is great news for Washington state and the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Larsen. “Getting this ship back to work will create much-needed jobs for men and women at local shipyards and will help our Coast Guard protect the higher volume of maritime traffic that is passing through the Arctic region.”Ice in the Arctic Ocean continues to decline, which has made it easier for vessels to travel through the region. Rep. Larsen has frequently raised the concern that the Coast Guard does not have the necessary resources and assets to protect and respond to increased shipping activity in the Arctic. “The current conditions of our icebreaking fleet have left the Coast Guard ill-equipped to handle even the most basic operations in the Arctic,” said Rep. Larsen. “Reactivating the Polar Star is a much-needed first step towards protecting U.S. interests in the Arctic and ensuring we can maintain a strong presence in the region for years to come.”###
03.08.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in reaction to Northrop Grumman’s decision to not bid on the aerial refueling tanker contract. This announcement leaves Boeing as the sole bidder for the Air Force contract.“Today’s announcement that Northrop Grumman will not bid against Boeing in the aerial refueling tanker competition is a testament to the quality of Washington state aerospace workers. Building these tankers in Northwest Washington will bring much-needed jobs to our corner of the state. We are home to a world-class workforce and I am confident in their ability to build the best equipment for our men and women in uniform. “I will continue to support this workforce by working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure the Pentagon purchases the highest quality tankers for our warfighters at the best value for American taxpayers.”###
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this week to encourage action to increase exports for American businesses– a move that will create jobs and spur economic growth. Larsen also sent a letter to Gary Locke, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, urging him to support export promotion. Larsen is currently home in the 2nd Congressional District meeting with local businesses to discuss creating jobs and growing the economy through export promotion. Export markets are crucial to the Washington state economy. One in three jobs are tied to foreign exports and one-third of agricultural products are shipped overseas. Exports were responsible for 30% of economic growth in Washington state over the past decade and account for nearly half of the new jobs created over the past 30 years. Larsen is committed to increasing opportunities for businesses to export their products overseas in order to create jobs here at home. “Mr. Speaker, trade creates jobs. In my home state of Washington, one in three jobs is dependent on foreign trade.“As Congress continues to focus on ways to create jobs, we must help American businesses export their products.“This weekend I will travel to my district to visit companies who have partnered with Federal programs to increase exports and create jobs.“Western Chemical, a small business in Ferndale, Washington and a leader in fish health products and biosecurity supplies, recently received $500,000 in financing from the Export-Import bank.“By utilizing the Ex-Im Bank, Western Chemical is able maintain cash-flow, export their products, and protect the 12 jobs at the Ferndale location. “Exports drive Washington State’s economy, accounting for over 30% of economic growth over the past decade and contributing to almost half of the new jobs created over the past 30 years.“I applaud the President’s decision to make exports promotion a priority moving forward.“The establishment of a National Exports Initiative and setting a goal to double U.S. exports in the next 5 years is a step in the right direction.“By utilizing the resources from the Department of Agriculture, the US Trade Representative’s office, the Department of Commerce, the Export-Import Bank, and the Department of Energy, the President has made it a priority to help farmers and small businesses increase their exports and create 2 million new jobs here at home.“Now, we in Congress must provide the resources to help them do that. “First, we must support the Department of Commerce so that it can hire the needed 328 trade experts to serve as advocates for U.S. companies and assist more than 23,000 American companies to begin or grow their export sales in 2011. “However, we must not forget that the engine that drives our economy is small business – and that over the last two decades, small and medium sized businesses (SMEs) have accounted for almost 65 percent of new jobs created in the U.S.“Last year I introduced legislation that directs the Department of Commerce to assist SMEs with exporting their products – particularly to developing economies like China.“From 2000 - 2007, Washington State exports to China grew by 406 percent.“This created jobs in sectors like transportation equipment, crop production, and even processed foods. “I know that the US-Trade Representative has launched an initiative specifically aimed at increasing exports by small- and medium-sized firms in the United States.“I stand ready to help.“Lastly, our farmers will benefit as well. For every $1 billion in agricultural exports, 9,000 jobs are created and $1.4 billion in economic activity is generated.“Our farmers and small business owners want to export their products and they want to create jobs here in the United States.“I urge my colleagues to help them do this by supporting the President’s National Export Initiative which will in turn create jobs and launch us on a path towards long-term economic growth. ###
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) took action to help farmers and businesses that are suffering from an ongoing issue with Mexican tariffs. This week, Larsen spearheaded a bipartisan letter signed by 56 Members of Congress to Ray LaHood, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and Ambassador Ron Kirk, U.S. Trade Representative, urging the administration to work to eliminate these tariffs that are devastating local industries. This letter is the second that Larsen has sent to the Administration about this issue. “Farmers and businesses are have been devastated by these tariffs. In agriculture alone, 12,000 jobs are at stake,” said Rep. Larsen. “In this economy the last thing these folks need is to bear the financial burden of unfair tariffs. The Administration needs to work quickly to resolve this issue and level the playing field for our local businesses and prevent job loss.” In response to the termination of a cross-border truck program, Mexico imposed tariffs on over 90 U.S. agriculture and industrial products. These goods now face import duties between 10 and 45%. U.S. businesses are struggling to compete in the Mexican market as a result of these tariffs. “Over $2 billion in exports to Mexico from American farmers and businesses have been affected by these tariffs,” said Rep. Larsen. “At a time when export promotion can spur job creation and economic development, we can not afford for our businesses to be handicapped by these tariffs.” Larsen and other Members of Congress sent a letter to President Obama in March of 2009 to urge the administration take prompt action to eliminate the tariffs. Many U.S. companies are being forced to shift production abroad or simply stop shipments. “This trade environment is unsustainable,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need a solution now to ensure jobs are saved and businesses stop suffering. I will continue to work hard to see that these tariffs are removed and our farmers can begin exporting the products to Mexico again, and creating jobs at home. ” ###
03.04.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act that will help create jobs, provide incentives for businesses to hire workers and repair crumbling infrastructure. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 217-201.“My number one priority is getting Americans back to work,” said Rep. Larsen. “This legislation will create and save hundreds of thousands of much-needed jobs for workers who were hurt most by this recession.” The HIRE Act will spur private sector hiring by providing a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers and an income tax credit for businesses that retain these employees. The bill also provides tax cuts to small businesses that will allow them to expand and will make key investments in infrastructure by extending the Highway Trust Fund and increasing the bond subsidy for cash-strapped states. “Far too many people remain out of work and struggling to make ends meet,” said Rep. Larsen. “The HIRE Act will send people back to work and help build a foundation for long-term economic growth.” In December, Larsen voted for the Jobs for Main Street Act to rebuild highways and transit, expand small business lending so they can grow and hire, support job training and keep police and firefighters on the streets and teachers in the classrooms. Larsen is committed to taking action on additional job creating measures to reduce the unemployment rate and create a foundation for long-term economic growth.“I am pleased that the HIRE Act is fully paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit,” said Rep. Larsen. “We must restore fiscal responsibility now in order to create an economic environment that will support good jobs well into the future.” ###
02.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), member of the House Budget Committee, questioned Arne Duncan, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education, on the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) when he appeared before the House Budget Committee at a hearing today. In September, the U.S. House of Representatives passed this legislation that makes the single largest investment in student aid by shifting all new federal student lending to the Direct Loan program, a move that will save taxpayers $87 billion over 10 years and will direct $10 billion in savings towards lowering the deficit. “At a time when families are struggling to make ends meet, this historic legislation makes higher education affordable by putting money right back into the pockets of mom and dad so they can help their children go to college or get career training,” said Rep. Larsen. “I was pleased to have the opportunity to ask Secretary Duncan about how this legislation will be implemented to revitalize our educational system, especially for community and technical colleges, which are a valuable resource for rebuilding our economy and preparing students to get jobs.”At today’s hearing, Larsen asked Secretary Duncan to outline the top ways SAFRA will modernize the nation’s educational system. Secretary Duncan responded that this legislation will advance education by making targeted investments in early childhood education, Pell Grants, community and technical colleges and income based repayment for individuals who choose a career in public service. When Larsen followed up to ask how SAFRA will specifically assist community and technical colleges, Duncan responded that these institutions will benefit from a $7 billion investment in academic, pre-college and job-training grant programs as well as an additional $2.5 billion to modernize community colleges and offer on-line courses to help with surging enrollments.“Community Colleges are seeing record enrollments as students try to find a cost-effective way to attend school during this economic downturn,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to ensure that these students have the resources and tools to remain competitive in the global economy. I believe community and technical colleges are at the forefront of training students in emerging technologies such as green energy and preparing them with marketable skills and knowledge that will allow them to succeed in the 21st century workforce.” ###
02.25.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), member of the House Budget Committee, questioned Timothy Geithner, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Treasury, on the Administration’s proposal for a Small Business Lending Fund when he appeared before a House Budget Committee hearing yesterday. Larsen spent the February District Work Period meeting with community banks in Northwest Washington to talk about how they can help spur job growth by lending to small businesses.“Community banks are ready, willing and able to lend,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to provide them with the tools they need and a regulatory environment that works so they can loan much-needed capital to small businesses that will use the resources to grow and start hiring again.” The Obama Administration has proposed using $30 billion from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to help community banks lend to small businesses. Larsen supports increasing lending opportunities to small businesses but is concerned about the impact the current regulatory environment is having on community banks and their ability to make capital available to small businesses.“There seems to be a disconnect between policy and what is actually working on the ground,” said Rep. Larsen. “I support the Administration’s proposal to help community banks make these critical loans, but before we give out a dime of this money, we need to be certain it will actually be put to work creating jobs and growing our economy.” At yesterday’s House Budget Committee hearing, Larsen expressed these concerns to Secretary Geithner and asked him what measures will be taken to ensure the proposed Small Business Lending Fund is available to community banks to lend, rather than keeping the funds on their balance sheets to meet capital requirements put in place by federal regulators. Secretary Geithner responded that the Department of Treasury is aware of the issue and will work with the regulators so this fund can be utilized for its intended purpose.“I was pleased to hear Secretary Geithner assure us that the Department of Treasury will coordinate with federal regulators to ensure that these funds will be available for lending,” said Rep. Larsen. “I will continue to work hard to help community banks provide small businesses with the tools they need to grow jobs and build our economy.” ###
02.24.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on the Air Force’s final Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker program. Larsen’s congressional district includes Boeing’s Everett plant, assembly site for the 747, 767, 777 and 787.“I am pleased that the Air Force is moving forward with the process of buying the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. American service members and taxpayers deserve a fair, open, and transparent competition so we can get the best tankers at the lowest price.“The final RFP released today appears to differ little from the draft RFP that was circulated last year. I applaud the Air Force for remaining focused on the needs of the warfighter. “I remain concerned that the final RFP still does not reflect the illegal subsidies provided to Airbus by European governments. I will continue to work with the Administration to resolve this conflict between our trade and defense procurement policies.“Washington state is home to the best aerospace workers in the world. I will continue to support this workforce by holding the Department of Defense accountable for its commitment to conduct a fair, open, and transparent tanker competition and making sure the contractors provide the highest quality tankers at the best value for American taxpayers.” ###
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the Administration for re-committing to the goal of ending childhood hunger by 2015. Earlier today, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack delivered a speech at the National Press Club outlining how the Administration will work to reduce childhood hunger and improve the health and nutrition of American children.“According to data compiled by the Food Research and Action Center, nearly one in six families in my Congressional District suffers from hunger. We need to do more to make sure that all Americans, and especially low-income children, are getting enough to eat,” said Rep. Larsen. “I applaud Secretary Vilsack for outlining a comprehensive vision to end childhood hunger, and I look forward to working with the Obama Administration to pass a strong Child Nutrition reauthorization bill in 2010.”Larsen also urged the Administration to consider legislation he has introduced to help low-income kids access nutritious food after school and during the summer months, the Ensuring All Students Year-round (EASY) Access to Meals and Snacks Act (HR 4274). This legislation has earned the endorsement of a range of national and Washington state anti-hunger organizations, which submitted letters to Congress in support of the bill. In a letter to Secretary Vilsack earlier this month, Larsen outlined how the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act will help achieve the goal of eliminating childhood hunger by 2015.“The EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act will bring us a step closer to ending childhood hunger by helping non-profits and local governments provide low-income kids with nutritious meals 365 days a year,” said Rep. Larsen. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to enact this important legislation.” Under current law, organizations that run summer camps can receive federal reimbursement for the meals they provide to low-income children through the Summer Food Service Program. During the school year, however, these same organizations have to apply for reimbursement through a separate program, the Child and Adult Care Food Program, and then only receive approximately 70 cents for each snack they provide to a low-income child. Some organizations simply opt not to apply for federal reimbursement for snacks during the school year because the paperwork is too cumbersome and the reimbursement rates are so low. The EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act will allow organizations that serve meals during the summer to also receive federal reimbursement for up to one meal and one snack served during after-school programs. The Following Washington state Organizations Endorsed the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act: Children’s Alliance Anti-Hunger and Nutrition Coalition Boys & Girls Clubs of Spokane County Food Connection Tacoma Food Lifeline Loon Lake School District Lutheran Public Policy Office Minority Executive Directors Coalition National Association of Social Workers WA Nespelem Elementary School Northwest Harvest Nutrition First Onalaska Schools School’s Out Washington Seattle Food Committee The Nooksack Tribe Touchet School District University Food Bank WA State Food and Nutrition Council Within Reach Yakama Mission The Following National Organizations Endorsed the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act: Afterschool AllianceAmericans for Indian OpportunityBoys & Girls Clubs of AmericaBread for the WorldCamp Fire USACommunity Food Security CoalitionCongressional Hunger CenterFeeding AmericaFirst FocusFood for People Inc.Food Research and Action CenterForum for Youth InvestmentFoundations, Inc.Higher AchievementNational Association of Police Athletic/Activities Leagues, Inc.National Council of Jewish WomenNational Farm to School NetworkNational Institute on Out-of-School TimeNational Recreation and Park AssociationSave the ChildrenCopies of the endorsement letter are available upon request. ###
02.18.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Budget Committee, praised the President for working to restore fiscal responsibility by signing an executive order that will establish a bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform. “Our nation is facing an unsustainably high deficit,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to make tough fiscal choices to cut spending and lower the deficit so we can create an economic environment that will support good jobs. This commission will go line-by-line through the budget to identify opportunities for cost-savings and ways to tackle the staggering deficit.” The commission will be tasked with balancing the budget, excluding interest payments on the debt, by 2015 in order to improve the nation’s long-term fiscal outlook. The 18 member bipartisan commission will be selected by the President and Congressional leaders from both political parties. “Both Republicans and Democrats got us into this fiscal mess and now we must work together to clean it up,” said Rep. Larsen. “Establishing a bipartisan deficit commission is not a cure-all, but a necessary step to rein in government spending and tackle the deficit. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to build a long-term, sustainable budget for our future.” Larsen is committed to restoring fiscal responsibility and is the cosponsor of HR 1557, the America's Future Economy Commission Act or SAFE Commission Act – a bill that establishes the Securing America's Future Economy (SAFE) Commission to develop legislation designed to address the unsustainable imbalance between long-term federal spending commitments and projected revenues. ###
02.09.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives about the need to help community banks lend to small businesses in order to create jobs and grow the economy. Larsen delivered this statement in conjunction with sending a letter to Timothy Geithner, Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, urging Secretary Geithner to address the deteriorating conditions in the commercial real estate market that are prohibiting community banks from lending and threatening economic recovery in Northwest Washington.“Small businesses are the number one source of new job growth in our country and their success will be critical to our nation moving out of economic recession and toward recovery. “One of the key drivers of small business success is access to capital. Unfortunately, the credit crunch has prevented them from accessing the capital they need to grow and create jobs. “Recovery Act and Small Business Administration (SBA) lending programs such as 504 loans, 7(a) loans, and America’s Recovery Capital (ARC) loans are stemming the tide of job loss and getting our economy moving again, but more needs to be done. “In order to expand the availability of credit to small businesses, we must strengthen community banks to allow them to lend to deserving small businesses. Our nation’s community banks play a vital role in small business lending, but the financial crisis has hamstrung their ability to make those loans. “I look forward to seeing how the Administration’s Small Business Lending Fund proposal will help community banks provide loans to give small businesses access to the tools they need to build their businesses and start hiring again. “I have heard from many community banks in my district that federal regulatory policies are also inhibiting their ability to lend. These banks are struggling because federal regulators are requiring them to increase capital above already well-capitalized levels and shrink their balance sheets. “As a result, they are forced to restrict their lending activity in order to meet these standards. I have urged the Treasury Department and the FDIC to review the effect that the current regulatory environment has on community bank lending in order to ensure an appropriate balance between prudent regulation and a robust lending market. “In Northwest Washington, the state of the commercial real estate (CRE) market is also threatening our economic recovery. Community banks in my district have been devastated by these troubled real estate loans. This problem must be addressed so that we can free up much-needed capital for community banks to jumpstart their small business lending. “While I appreciate the FDIC’s October guidance on prudent commercial real estate loan workouts, I am concerned that this guidance is not yet working to stabilize the CRE market. The Treasury Department and the FDIC must take further measures to address this problem and ensure that the guidance is fully implemented. “I urge my colleagues to address this problem head-on so we can help community banks lend to small businesses, which will in turn create jobs and launch us on a path towards long-term economic growth. ###
02.05.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised the President for his commitment to create jobs and grow the economy by increasing exports for American businesses. The Administration has set a goal to double U.S. Exports in the next 5 years, a move that could create 2 million new jobs.“Investing in export promotion is a surefire way to create jobs,” said Rep. Larsen. “Helping our businesses sell their products overseas will create jobs here at home.”The Administration’s proposal includes a National Export Initiative (NEI) to help farmers and small businesses increase their exports. The NEI will be the first time the nation will have a government-wide export-promotion strategy with focused attention from the President and the Cabinet. The President also proposed reforming export controls to be consistent with national security needs.“95 percent of consumers live outside U.S. borders. This is a number we can not afford to ignore,” said Rep. Larsen. “Increasing opportunities for our small and medium-sized firms to access this market is going to create an economic boom for their businesses and grow jobs in our community.”Last year, Larsen, Co-Chair of the U.S.-China Working Group, introduced the U.S.-China Market Engagement and Promotion Act to help small and medium-sized businesses export their products to the fast-growing Chinese market. “As a nation we are severely underperforming in exports,” said Rep. Larsen. “I look forward to working with the Administration to pass legislation that will increase American exports overseas, create jobs here at home, and help build our economy for the long-term.”Export markets are crucial to Washington state. One in three jobs are tied to foreign exports and one-third of agricultural products are shipped overseas. In 2008, Washington agricultural exports increased by 60 percent over 2007, and 116 percent over 2006. Washington state is the fourth-ranking state for total exports, behind Texas, California and New York. ###
02.04.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Budget Committee, voted to restore fiscal responsibility by supporting statutory “pay-as-you-go” legislation. This measure (H.J.Res. 45), also known as PAYGO, passed the House by a vote of 233 to 187, and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.“Our nation is facing an unsustainably high deficit,” said Rep. Larsen. “PAYGO led our country from deficits to record surpluses during the late 1990s and will be a critical tool as we work to rein in spending and clean up this fiscal mess.”PAYGO will hold Congress accountable by requiring any spending increases to be offset with savings elsewhere in the budget. This legislation is similar to the bipartisan PAYGO law enacted in the 1990s, which helped reverse huge deficits of the Reagan-Bush years, create budget surpluses, and produce an economic boom. In 2007, the House made PAYGO part of House Rules, today’s vote will send the legislation to the President’s desk to give it the force of law. “If American families can balance their checkbooks and live on a budget, Congress certainly can too,” said Rep. Larsen. “PAYGO is not a cure-all, but it is a necessary first step in restoring fiscal responsibility so we can build a long-term, sustainable budget that will create jobs and grow our economy for years to come.”###
02.04.2010	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) congratulated the San Juan Island community on obtaining the State Department of Health’s Certificate of Need for a new critical access hospital. A state Certificate of Need is required before building or expanding a health care facility. “This is great news for the San Juan Island community,” said Rep. Larsen. “A new critical access hospital will bring medical services closer to home for island residents. This much needed hospital will make accessing outpatient, inpatient and emergency medical care safer and more convenient for island residents and visitors.”Peacehealth, a Northwest-based healthcare provider, and the San Juan County Public Hospital District #1 are working together to expand on-island healthcare services. Today’s news will allow them to begin planning and designing the new hospital which will be located in Friday Harbor. Plans for the medical center include an expanded primary care and specialty clinic, an expanded diagnostic services center, a 24 hour emergency room and a 10-bed critical access hospital.###
02.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised President Obama’s commitment to create jobs and grow the economy by helping community banks lend to small businesses.“Small businesses are the number one source of new job growth in our country, but the credit crunch has prevented them from accessing the capital they need to grow and create jobs,” said Rep. Larsen. “I look forward to seeing how President Obama’s proposal will help community banks provide loans to give small businesses access to the tools they need to build their businesses and start hiring again.” President Obama today proposed a Small Business Lending Fund that will direct $30 billion in Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds to a new initiative to support small business lending. The program will be targeted at helping community and small banks that lend the most to small businesses. Larsen has supported other efforts to increase access to credit for small businesses including the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) 504 loans that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act expanded to help small businesses with debt relief and the 7(a) loans that help startup and early stage firms access capital.“The Recovery Act and SBA lending programs are stemming the tide of job loss and getting our economy moving again, but more needs to be done. As we move forward, we must create an economic environment for long-term, sustainable growth,” said Rep. Larsen. “In Northwest Washington, the state of the commercial real estate market is threatening our economic recovery. I am working to help community banks cope with billions of dollars in troubled commercial real estate loans so that they can jump start their small business lending.” Larsen recently signed a letter to Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Timothy Geithner, Secretary of the US Department of the Treasury, urging them to address the deteriorating conditions in the commercial real estate market that are threatening our economic recovery. The Seattle-Bellevue-Everett metro area had the nation’s highest delinquency rate of construction and land loans in the second quarter of 2009.“Community banks in our corner of Washington state have been devastated by these troubled real estate loans,” said Rep. Larsen. “We need to address this problem head-on so we can free up much-needed capital for them to loan to small businesses, that will in turn create jobs and launch us on a path towards long-term economic growth.” Text of the letter Larsen signed to Secretary Geithner and Chairman Bernanke follows: January 29, 2010 The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 3330 Washington, DC 20220 The Honorable Ben S. Bernanke Chairman Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW, Room 2046 Washington, DC 20551 Dear Secretary Geithner and Chairman Bernanke: As you know, the financial crisis continues to have a dampening effect throughout the credit markets. The commercial real estate (CRE) market, in particular, continues to experience difficult credit accessibility conditions. Moreover, the scarcity of credit in the $6.7 trillion CRE sector poses a dangerous threat to our financial system just as our economy has begun to show signs of recovery. Earlier this month real estate data provider Trepp announced that the delinquency rate for loans underlying commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) ballooned 500 percent in 2009, surpassing 6 percent in December for the first time. Additionally, the CMBS market has all but shut down over the past year making it more difficult for CRE owners to sell or refinance. We appreciate the acknowledgement by federal regulators of this situation in October, when the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, along with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, issued a policy statement advising financial institutions to extend and/or restructure loans backed by income-producing and/or development properties whenever possible in order to minimize losses as well as to stabilize overall asset values in the communities they serve. While the regulatory guidance is a relatively recent occurrence, we remain concerned by early indications that it may not yet be having the desired impact in stabilizing the CRE market. While some properties are in desperate need of modification due to the economic downturn, we are not convinced these loans are being serviced properly or in an efficient manner. Of even more concern, anecdotal evidence suggests that regulators continue to encourage lenders to write down the value of performing loans, whose payments may well be current and, in some instance, even call the loan. This further exacerbates the crisis by creating defaults in properties that were able to meet their debt servicing. To ensure the recent CRE loan modification guidance will have a positive and stabilizing effect, and to protect the broader economy from further disruptions, we urge you to establish a clear method for measuring and evaluating its effectiveness. Furthermore, we encourage you to institute metrics to more clearly differentiate performing versus non-performing loans as well as any other steps that provide lending institutions with more confidence in assessing CRE loans. We also call upon you to make clear public statements encouraging lenders to continue to make credit available for performing assets as a means of restoring confidence and long-term value in the CRE market. In sum, we strongly believe that regulators must take continued steps to mitigate ongoing turmoil in the CRE sector before it becomes a full-fledged crisis, forestalls our economic recovery, and possibly requires additional taxpayer-funded capital injections. Consistent with all applicable law and regulation, thank you for the consideration of our views and your attention to these matters. ###
02.02.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised President Obama’s decision to prioritize land conservation in Northwest Washington by including $1 million for Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve in his Fiscal Year 2011 budget. This funding will be used to purchase easements in order to protect and preserve over 300 acres of farmland. “Ebey’s Landing is a vital resource for the community. This funding will help protect one of Washington state’s natural and historic treasures,” said Rep. Larsen. “I applaud President Obama for recognizing the importance of purchasing easements that will keep good farmland in production and preserve recreational access for the public.” Ebey’s Landing was created by Congress in 1978 to protect the “cultural landscape” of Penn Cove on Whidbey Island. Most of Ebey’s Landing is owned by private citizens, but public access is guaranteed by easements owned by the National Parks Service and conservation organizations. The land is widely used for farming, harvesting forests and recreation. Historic buildings on Ebey’s Landing continue to be used as homes and businesses. "The most important tool we have to protect the Reserve's agricultural heritage is through acquisition of scenic easements on a willing seller basis,” said Mark Preiss, Reserve Manager, Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve. “This funding will help to sustain the deep rooted tradition of family farming in Ebey's Reserve. Our thanks to Congressman Larsen for his leadership in working to secure this funding for Ebey's Landing." This is the second year that the Obama Administration has set aside funding for land conservation in Northwest Washington. Last year, the President’s budget included $6 million to purchase the Mitchell Hill property adjacent to San Juan Island National Historical Park. Inclusion in the President’s budget is an important step in securing this funding for Ebey’s Landing. Next, Congress must provide funding for the land as part of their annual appropriations bill for Interior and Environment. “The Obama Administration clearly understands the value of National Parks in Northwest Washington. Ebey’s Landing and San Juan Island National Historical Park preserve our unique cultural heritage and supports good jobs in the local tourism economy,” said Rep. Larsen. ###
02.01.2010	Your Representative is looking forward to holding a local event in a specific town in our congressional district.We will use our website to display relevant information regarding this event, such as time, location and subject matter.We look forward to seeing you at the event!
02.01.2010	The office is pleased to announce the publication of press releases on its new website. This will allow our office to communicate timely events and important news to our constituents and district residents.Please stay tuned for continued information from us.
02.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, applauded today’s announcement that the Department of Defense plans to purchase an additional 26 EA-18G Growlers over the next two years to be stationed at Naval Air Station (NAS) Whidbey. This announcement was included in President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2011 Defense Budget.“Buying more Growlers will strengthen our national security and support jobs at NAS Whidbey and in the surrounding community,” said Larsen, who serves as a co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Electronic Warfare Working Group. “Growler aircraft will provide superior Electronic Warfare capabilities that are urgently needed around the world.”Until today, the Navy had planned to purchase and operate only 88 EA-18G Growlers to replace the aging EA-6B Prowlers. Today’s announcement means that the Navy will purchase a total of 114 Growlers and will continue to deploy these Electronic Attack aircraft both on carriers and on land as “expeditionary” squadrons. The budget proposes purchasing 12 Growlers in Fiscal Year 2011 and 24 Growlers in Fiscal Year 2012; previous Defense budgets had called for purchasing 10 Growlers in Fiscal Year 2011 and 0 Growlers in Fiscal Year 2012.“I am proud of the men and women of Naval Air Station Whidbey who continue to be our military’s premiere Electronic Warfare experts. I will continue to support the work they do to keep our country safe,” Larsen concluded. ###
02.01.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement today after President Barack Obama released his budget outline for Fiscal Year 2011. “Today, President Obama outlined a budget that tackles our nation’s two biggest needs: creating jobs now and driving down the deficit in the future. “One year ago, our economy was on the brink of collapse. Congress took immediate action to save us from economic catastrophe by passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to jumpstart the economy and spur job growth. “It is clear that our economy has turned a corner and that the Recovery Act is working and will continue to work, but far too many Americans remain out of work and struggling to make ends meet. “The President’s budget calls for immediate action to create jobs by helping small businesses grow, investing in clean energy and repairing our infrastructure. “President Obama prioritizes support for the middle class by extending a tax cut for 110 million American families. Helping those hurt most by this recession must remain a priority as we craft this budget. “Moving forward, it is critical that we build a foundation for future economic growth by reining in spending and tackling the deficit. The President’s budget restores fiscal responsibility by calling for a bipartisan fiscal commission that will examine every piece of our budget and consider ways to overhaul our approach to spending and the long-term deficit. “This week, Congress will hold a final vote on statutory “pay as you go” legislation. This measure led our nation from deficits to record surpluses in the late 1990s and will be a critical tool as we work to control spending and bring down the deficit. “As a member of the House Budget Committee, I look forward to working with the President to finalize a long-term, sustainable budget that will create jobs, help American families and get our economy moving again. ###
01.28.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised today’s announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation that Washington state will be receiving $590 million in Recovery Act funds to invest in high-speed rail improvements. “Creating a more efficient passenger rail system is a win, win, win for Washington state,” said Rep. Larsen. “It will create jobs, improve commuting for hard-working Washingtonians, and help get our state’s economy moving again.” Larsen, a member of the House Transportation Committee, worked closely with the Washington state Congressional delegation and U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to help secure these funds. The $590 million will be used to upgrade 437 miles of railroad tracks with the intent of improving rail travel times between Blaine and Portland and to reach the long-term goal of using high-speed rail to reduce car and air travel. The project will create as many as 6,500 jobs in construction and engineering. "The projects Washington has put together are strong," Larsen said. "Our state is committed to investing in Amtrak. We have the population to support high-speed rail. And we have congestion problems to justify the investment."Currently, Amtrak operates 5 daily trains between Seattle and Portland. Since 1999, Washington state has invested $137 million in capital rail improvements. The Recovery Act funding will help reduce delays, and provide more reliable and frequent service for the region. “This Recovery Act funding will spur an economic boon for Northwest Washington,” said Rep. Larsen. “Local projects from Everett to Blaine are going to create jobs for our neighbors and help commuters and commerce travel faster from point to point.” ###
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement tonight following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address:“Tonight, President Obama spoke to the American people about the many challenges we face and the bold steps we must take to create jobs, rebuild our economy and help those hurt most by this recession. “The President was clear that jobs are number one. He acknowledged that while we averted economic catastrophe, there are still far too many people left jobless and struggling to make ends meet. He called upon Congress to create jobs by making key investments in infrastructure, small businesses, American manufacturing exports and clean energy initiatives. “I am pleased that the President is committed to helping those hurt most by this recession. He proposed a number of measures that will bring much-needed financial relief to American families and businesses. He will push for reforms that will assist students with soaring tuition payments, help families cope with the costs of child and elderly care, and make it easier to plan for retirement. He also reaffirmed his commitments to lowering the costs of health care, moving toward energy independence and modernizing our education system.“As we move forward, we must build a foundation for future economic growth. Big banks and Wall Street must be held accountable through meaningful regulations for our financial markets that will prevent another financial crisis. As a member of the House Budget Committee, I vow to restore fiscal responsibility by tackling the nation’s deficit and reigning in spending. These are actions we need to take as we work to jumpstart our economy and build a long-term, sustainable budget. “I am laser-focused on creating jobs, helping those hurt the most by this economic recession and building a foundation for long-term economic growth. The President is confident in the future of our nation and in the American people and I am confident that his plan will help us overcome our challenges and deliver results for struggling American families. ###
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement concerning the House Budget Committee’s hearing on budget projections for fiscal years 2010 through 2020 released by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO).“Today’s report by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) sends a strong message to Congress that we must act now to ensure a long-term, sustainable budget for America’s future. “While the CBO projections show that our economy is recovering, it also outlines several challenges facing our country. In fiscal year 2010, the federal budget will show a deficit of $1.3 trillion. This deficit reminds us that we must take action to tackle our long-term budgetary challenges.“The good news is that the deep recession that led us into this financial crisis has slowed considerably. After shrinking for four consecutive quarters, the economy returned to growth in the third quarter of 2009, growing at 2.2 percent. The CBO projects that this growth will continue at 2.5 percent for 2010, which is the strongest growth our nation has seen since 2006. CBO credits the ARRA with helping the economy to turn around. “The bad news is that our deficit is still unsustainably high. In order to build a foundation for economic growth, we must address the nation’s long-term budgetary challenges. To do this:• I am a cosponsor of the SAFE Commission Act. This legislation is designed to address the unsustainable imbalance between long-term federal spending and projected revenue shortfalls. • I support the pay-as-you-go provision, which requires Congress to offset spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. • I support efforts like President Obama’s recently proposed commitment to reign in domestic discretionary spending. “The best path to a long-term, sustainable budget is to get our economy moving again. There are clear signs that the Recovery Act is spurring economic growth and creating jobs, but more needs to be done. I will continue to work hard on the Budget Committee to rebuild our economy, create jobs, and ensure a long-term, sustainable budget. ###
01.20.2010	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today regarding the safe return of Brett Schlenbaker and his two adopted children, orphans Djennika and Djouvensky, from Port-Au-Prince, Haiti. Rep. Larsen has been working on behalf of the Schlenbaker’s for several months to finalize the adoption of Djennika and Djouvensky from Haiti. The adoption process was in its final stages when the earthquake struck on January 12th.“Amid the many stories of tragedy and destruction in Haiti, today’s homecoming for Brett, Kendra, Djennika, and Djouvensky Schlenbaker is a bright spot. I send my thoughts and prayers to the Schlenbaker’s as they celebrate the long awaited reuniting of their family. “I commend all the men and women working for our government and non-profit organizations who collaborated to get Djennika and Djouvensky to their new home. “I want to particularly thank Kristen LeMieux of my staff who has been working around the clock to help families like the Schlenbaker’s who have loved ones in Haiti. “I will continue to do everything I can to assist my constituents who have family members and adoptions in-process in Haiti.” ###The Larsen office can help advocate on behalf of 2nd CD constituents and their families in Haiti, or help those in the process of adopting children from Haiti. If you are in this situation, please contact Kristen LeMieux in my Everett Office by calling (425) 252-3188. On weekends or after regular business hours, the office’s voicemail recording will have additional information on how to reach her.
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to pass additional measures to create jobs, help Americans hurt most by the recession, and further strengthen our country’s foundation for future economic growth. The Jobs for Main Street Act (H.R. 2847) passed the House by a vote of 217-212 and must clear the Senate before it can be signed into law. “Right now, my highest priority is jobs. I am focused on putting folks back to work. In these tough times we must do everything possible to create jobs, help those hurt the most by the recession and strengthen the foundation for our economic growth,” said Larsen. “A year has passed since the economic crisis hit, but too many people are still out of work and struggling to make ends meet. And while the recovery package continues to help stem the tide of job loss, more needs to be done,” said Larsen. “This jobs package is about putting people back to work; helping small businesses gain access to credit; helping teachers, firefighters and local law enforcement to keep their jobs serving our communities; and building infrastructure that will help strengthen our future economic growth,” Larsen continued. The jobs package passed by the House today includes $35.9 billion to invest in our nation’s roads, bridges and transit, including nearly $500 million for Washington state; $23 billion for an Education Jobs Fund to create or retain an additional 250,000 education jobs, $1.18 billion to support an additional 5,500 law enforcement officers, and $500 million to retain, rehire and hire firefighters across the United States. It helps the Americans getting hurt the most by the recession by extending for another 6 months unemployment benefits and help for health insurance for unemployed workers (COBRA). And it extends two widely used Small Business Administration (SBA) loan programs so that small businesses can continue to access needed capital. ###
12.15.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today regarding the first flight of Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner in Everett: “Today’s great news and successful test have been a long time coming. This test flight means we are finally at the end-game for getting the 787 certified by the Federal Aviation Administration, and getting the 840 planes that have been ordered out to Boeing’s customers. The best aerospace workers in the world have risen to the challenge once again. The success of the 787 program is important to the Northwest because of the thousands of jobs it brings to our region – and today was a good day for the 787.” According to the Boeing Company, the 787 is made of lightweight composite materials and will be quieter, produce fewer emissions and use 20 percent less fuel than comparable aircraft. ###
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to put in place comprehensive regulations for our financial markets, hold Wall Street accountable and protect consumers. This legislation, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 4173) passed the House by a vote of 223-202 and must clear the Senate before it can be signed into law. “This legislation will help our economy recover and build a foundation for future economic growth,” Larsen concluded. “Our financial system must be reformed so that families can get mortgages, small businesses can access capital, and people are able to retire on their 401(k)s.” “For too long, federal regulators have been asleep at the switch while Wall Street ran amok. As a result, our country faced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression,” said Larsen. “The legislation passed by the House today will put in place appropriate regulations for our financial markets so that we never face an economic crisis like this one again.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act imposes strong oversight of financial firms and the financial markets by creating a new Financial Stability Council. It protects consumers from financial abuse by creating a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services. The bill gives the government the tools it needs to manage financial crises in the future by establishing an orderly process for dismantling large, failing financial institutions like AIG in a way that ends bailouts and protects consumers. “If Wall Street decides to drive off a cliff in the future, this bill will prevent them from taking American families along as their innocent passengers.” Larsen worked with the House New Democrat Coalition to ensure that the bill preserved the ability of small businesses to access capital, continue to be innovative, and take appropriate risk to support economic growth and job creation. ###
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced legislation to improve low-income children’s access to nutritious after-school meals and snacks. This legislation, the Ensuring All Students Year-round (EASY) Access to Meals and Snacks Act, would amend the Child Nutrition Act to allow the organizations that currently serve snacks and meals during summer programs expanded federal reimbursement to serve low-income children throughout the school year, improving nutrition for this potentially vulnerable population. “Our country has a moral obligation to make sure that kids get enough to eat every day. Improving nutrition for low-income kids helps them perform better in school and avoid serious health problems down the road,” said Rep. Larsen. “At a time when Food Stamp use is skyrocketing and millions of Americans are struggling to make ends meet, the EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act will help more low-income children get the food they need to be healthy and productive.” Under current law, organizations that run summer camps can receive federal reimbursement for the meals they provide to low-income children through the Summer Food Service Program. During the school year, however, these same organizations have to apply for reimbursement through a separate program, the Child and Adult Care Food Program, and then only receive approximately 70 cents for each snack they provide to a low-income child. Some organizations simply opt not to apply for federal reimbursement for snacks during the school year because the paperwork is too cumbersome and the reimbursement rates are so low. The EASY Access to Meals and Snacks Act will allow organizations that serve meals during the summer to also receive federal reimbursement for up to one meal and one snack served during after-school programs. “The number of households facing hunger in Washington state rose 24% over the last year,” said Linda Stone, Senior Food Policy Coordinator of the Washington State Children’s Alliance. “With more of our neighbors experiencing tough economic times, Congressman Larsen’s bill will make it easier for communities to come together to help ensure kids have the nutrition they need.” Providing after-school snacks through the Summer Food Service Program has been a successful pilot program in California over the last five years, with data showing that more needy kids got access to nutritious snacks and meals. Christine Destry of the Whatcom Boys and Girls Club saw this concept work first-hand while working with child nutrition programs in California. “We provide thousands of federally-supported meals to low-income kids during the summer, but there just isn’t the same support available for an after-school nutrition program,” said Destry. “Congressman Larsen’s legislation will go a long way towards helping low-income kids in Whatcom County get enough to eat all year round.” Congress will consider a series of changes to the Child Nutrition Act, with hearings tentatively scheduled to begin in the Education and Labor Committee in 2010. ###
12.08.2009	Washington, D.C. — The House of Representatives passed the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative Reauthorization Act (HR 1672), legislation sponsored by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), by voice vote yesterday. This legislation renews the Congressional mandate for the Northwest Straits Commission, a grassroots organization that works to restore and protect marine habitat in Northwest Washington. HR 1672 has widespread support from the local community, including letters of support from elected officials in every county in which it operates. “The Northwest Straits Commission has a proven track record of turning good ideas into well-executed restoration projects. Their efforts protect endangered species and create good jobs in our local communities,” said Larsen. “I thank my colleagues in the House of Representatives for supporting this legislation, and I thank Senator Patty Murray for her efforts to pass this bill in the Senate.” In the 1980s and early 1990s, the health of the marine waters in the Northwest Straits region declined dramatically. In 1997, U.S. Senator Patty Murray led a blue-ribbon commission which recommended establishing a local organization to coordinate and implement grassroots projects that would improve the health of marine ecosystems. In 1998, Congress adopted the commission’s recommendation and created the Northwest Straits Commission. Senator Murray has introduced legislation similar to HR 1672 in the Senate and is working to achieve its passage. “The Northwest Straits are one of our state’s most treasured economic and environmental resources,” said Senator Murray. “Today’s passage of this bill through the House is a major step forward toward ensuring continued protection and conservation of the Northwest Straits. I thank Congressman Larsen for his strong effort and I will continue to work on this critical bill until it passes the Senate and is signed by the President.”Larsen entered the following statement into the Congressional Record in support of the bill: Madam Speaker, I rise today to express my support for the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative Reauthorization Act, H.R. 1672. Throughout the 1980s and early 1990s the marine waters of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, the San Juan Islands and northern Puget Sound, collectively known as the Northwest Straits, experienced substantial environmental decline. This was concerning because local communities rely on the resources of the Northwest Straits to create good-paying jobs and many iconic and endangered species, including orca whales and pacific salmon, rely on the Northwest Straits for food and habitat. In 1997, Senator Patty Murray and Congressman Jack Metcalf convened a blue-ribbon commission to examine ways to reverse this trend and restore the health of the Northwest Straits. In 1998, Congress adopted the Murray-Metcalf Commission’s recommendations when it authorized the creation of the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Commission, a grassroots organization which does not exercise regulatory authority but harnesses the energy of local communities to develop and implement conservation and restoration projects. For the last 11 years, the Northwest Straits Commission has done great work to restore the Northwest Straits. Their projects have helped create jobs and protect endangered and threatened species. The Northwest Straits Commission has demonstrated the ability to implement challenging recovery projects. The Commission used $4.5 million of funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to remove hundreds of acres of abandoned fishing gear from the seafloor. This project created jobs for out-of-work fisherman and saved the lives of endangered species. The legislation under consideration on the House floor today would extend the legislative authorization of the Northwest Straits Commission for an additional five years. It will increase tribal participation in the Commission and improve oversight of its activities. HR 1672 has earned the support of our local community – I have received letters of support for this legislation from elected officials, businesspeople and environmentalists in every county in which the Northwest Straits Commission operates. Similar legislation has been introduced in the United States Senate by my friend Senator Patty Murray. I hope that our joint effort will help to protect and restore the Northwest straits for the people, fish, and threatened wildlife which rely on it.###
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the Government Accountability Office (GAO) for sustaining the Port of Bellingham’s protest against the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) decision to move its Northwest-based Marine Operations Center to Newport, Oregon. The GAO ruled that NOAA should not have selected the Newport facility as its new homeport because it is located in a flood plain. “Today’s announcement is great news for the Port, City, our education partners, marine trades industry and local leaders,” said Larsen. “The GAO’s decision doesn’t mean that Bellingham is guaranteed to be the next home for NOAA’s Marine Operations Center-Pacific, but it puts us right back in the ball game.” According to a longstanding Executive Order, the federal government cannot support development in a floodplain if a practicable alternative exists. The GAO decision states that “there can be no reasonable doubt that Newport’s offer proposed to build its pier structure within the designated floodplain area” and ordered that NOAA determine whether a practicable alternative to the previously-selected Newport facility exists. The full GAO report is available at https://www.gao.gov/decisions/bidpro/401837.htm ###
12.01.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement of a new strategy for the war in Afghanistan. “Tonight, President Obama outlined a comprehensive strategy to stabilize Afghanistan and reduce security threats to America. The President addressed how we will defeat the Taliban, improve governance for the Afghan people and train Afghan National Security Forces to assume more responsibility for their country’s security. “The Taliban and al-Qaida have carried out deadly attacks against the Afghans and Americans alike. The President reiterated our commitment to combat terrorists and secure the Afghan population from attack. “The President also made it clear that stability in Afghanistan also depends on improvements in governance and economic opportunities for the Afghan people. This speech sends a clear message to President Karzai that he must undertake significant, credible reforms to reduce corruption and improve services. “Afghan security forces must be prepared to sustain improvements in security and stability achieved by the United States and our allies. The President committed to training competent and professional Afghan National Security Forces so they can help secure their own country. “The President announced that the United States will deploy an additional 30,000 service members to help implement his strategy. Our NATO and non-NATO allies must recognize that Afghanistan-based terrorists present a global threat and increase their deployments to the country as well. “I recognize that additional deployments of U.S. military and civilian personnel to Afghanistan will place strain on our service members and their families and increase our country’s deficit. I will continue my work on the House Armed Services Committee and House Budget Committee to support military families and improve our fiscal health. “President Obama made it clear tonight that a secure and stable Afghanistan is in the direct national security interests of the United States. We cannot allow Afghanistan to once again become a safe haven for terrorists to plan attacks against America and our allies. Our operations in Afghanistan must disrupt, dismantle, and destroy al-Qaida and other terrorist groups which threaten the U.S.“The right strategy and resources in Afghanistan will reduce the national security threat al-Qaida poses to the United States. The goal of the strategy is clear: to deny al-Qaida a safe haven from which they can plan attacks against us.“To achieve this goal we will need the support and cooperation of the international community, our allies and, most importantly, the Afghan people.” ###
11.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after voting in support of the Affordable Health Care for America Act (HR 3962). The bill passed the House by a vote of 220 to 215. “There is no doubt that health care is costing our small businesses too much, our families too much and the federal government too much. The status quo is unacceptable. The Affordable Health Care for America Act will give hard working individuals and small businesses access to affordable health coverage, and give families and businesses some stability and security during these hard economic times. “I support the Affordable Health Care for America Act because it is a good bill for Washington state, and a good bill for our small businesses, families and seniors. Good for Washington State“I fought hard to make sure the health care reform bill included a fair deal for Washington state. I pushed to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. “This bill includes language to fix the long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care in Washington state. This is a huge victory for our state. Good for Small Businesses “Employees of small businesses currently pay an average of 18 percent more in premiums than those in large firms for the same benefits. Their deductibles are more than double. And the cost of insurance for small business owners has increased 129 percent since 2000. “Small businesses pay higher rates today because they do not have the advantage of large numbers of employees over which to spread the insurance risk. Because of their small size, insurance companies are able to charge them higher health insurance premiums based on employee health status. “This bill will create a health insurance exchange, or pool of insurance companies and plans, for small businesses. This will help small business employers and employees benefit from group rates. There are approximately 21,100 small businesses in the 2nd District that could benefit from this exchange. Good for Families“The Affordable Health Care for America Act brings stability and security to families struggling with increasing health care costs. It provides coverage to the 104,000 individuals lacking insurance in Washington’s 2nd Congressional district. “The bill also bans discrimination for pre-existing conditions, age and gender. No one should be denied coverage, or be charged through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a pre-existing condition.“It is also important to point out that this bill protects people’s choice of doctors and health plans. If you like your doctor or your health plan, you can keep your doctor or health plan. If you have good insurance that you like, nothing in this bill will take it away from you. Good for seniors“And finally, the bill improves Medicare benefits, strengthens the solvency of the Medicare program, and closes the “donut hole” in the Medicare Prescription Drug Program to better serve our seniors.###
11.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to approve a package of unemployment insurance benefits and tax credits for first-time homebuyers and businesses facing financial losses. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 403 to 12. “Congress must continue to do everything possible to create jobs, help those hurt the most and strengthen the foundation for our economic growth.” “Today’s vote extends successful programs like unemployment insurance and the first-time homebuyer tax credit that were included in the economic recovery package that Congress passed in February. Because of these programs, and the hard work of the American people, we are working our way out of a recession,” said Larsen. The legislation passed today extends unemployment benefits an additional 14 weeks for all states, and an additional six weeks for those in states that have been hit the hardest by the economic downturn – including Washington state. According to the economist Mark Zandi, extending unemployment benefits is one of the most cost-effective and fast-acting ways to stimulate the economy because the money is spent quickly. The bill also extends the $8,000 first-time homebuyer credit through April 30, 2010, and expands the program by providing a $6500 credit to new purchasers who have been in their homes for five or more years. It also increases number of people who could be eligible for the tax credit by raising the income cap to $125,000 for individuals and $225,000 for married couples. “Extending unemployment benefits helps nearly 18,000 residents in Washington state who have been hurt most by the economic downturn and gives a another needed boost to our economy. Not only does this bill extend help so that folks in my district who are looking for a job can keep paying the bills, it fuels the housing market and local businesses as well.” Larsen had previously called upon Congress to take up and pass the extension of these programs by joining over 150 Representatives in sending a bipartisan letter calling on House leadership to extend the homebuyer tax credit before it expires. The first-time homebuyer tax credit is set to expire on November 30, 2009. Larsen also expressed the need to extend certain recovery programs. He urged his colleagues to take a number of specific actions to help families hurt most by the recession including the extension of unemployment benefits and health benefits under COBRA. “With unemployment in Washington state at 9.3 percent, I continue my work to ensure Congress is doing everything it can to save and create jobs. Today’s vote will be another important step that Congress has taken to get our economy back on track. ###
11.05.2009	The office launches a new website for district residents. It is aimed to allow site visitors to have access to the latest information from Capitol Hill. Constituents can make requests such as receiving assistance with Federal Agencies, apply for an appointment to one of the U.S. military academies, and request a Presidential greeting. District residents can view the latest news by signing up for the website's RSS feed.
11.04.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today announcing his support for the Affordable Health Care for American Act (HR 3962) which is scheduled for a vote in the House of Representatives on Saturday: The status quo is unacceptable“After a full review of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, I am announcing my support for this important legislation. I support health care reform. The status quo is unacceptable. Health care help for families“The Affordable Health Care for America Act brings stability and security to families struggling with increasing health care costs. It gives much-needed financial relief to small business owners who cannot afford coverage for their employees. It provides coverage to the 104,000 individuals lacking insurance in Washington’s 2nd Congressional district. The bill improves the Medicare program for our seniors. And the bill stops the discrimination for people who have been denied coverage, or charged through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a pre-existing condition such as diabetes or cancer. Unprecedented outreach“Since July, I have held two in-person town hall meetings on health care reform that were attended by over 3,000 people, and two telephone town halls listened to by over 7,600 people. I participated in a League of Women Voters health care forum in Coupeville that was attended by over 300 people. And I held nearly 30 meetings on health care reform in the district with local doctors, patients, small businesses, families and hospitals. I have responded to nearly 5,000 constituent letters, emails and calls on health care reform to this point, and will respond to an additional 5,000 letters, emails and calls after I take this vote. Major victory for Washington state“Since the House of Representatives began crafting health care reform legislation, we have made great progress for Washington state. I brought local concerns to the attention of leadership in Washington, D.C. and fought hard to make sure the health care reform bill includes a fair deal for Washington state. “Specifically, I pushed to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. “This bill includes language to fix the long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care in Washington state. This is a huge victory for our state. Help for those with healthcare“The bill also bans discrimination for pre-existing conditions, age and gender. No one should be denied coverage, or be charged through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a pre-existing condition. “It is also important to point out that this bill protects people’s choice of doctors and health plans. If you like your doctor or your health plan, you can keep your doctor or health plan. If you have good insurance that you like, nothing in this bill will take it away from you. “And the Affordable Health Care for America Act expands access to quality, affordable health insurance options by setting up a Health Insurance Exchange that includes a public option that works for Washington state. This exchange provides one-stop, comparison shopping for qualifying individuals and small businesses. Small business advantages“Small businesses currently pay 18 percent more than larger firms to provide the same health insurance benefits to their employees. This exchange will help bring much-needed financial relief and stability to small business owners and their employees. Help for seniors“And finally, the bill improves Medicare benefits, strengthens the solvency of the Medicare program, and closes the “donut hole” in the Medicare Prescription Drug Program to better serve our seniors. “I believe that a vote in favor of the Affordable Health Care for America Act is the right vote for Washington’s 2nd Congressional district. ###
10.30.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen applauded the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) for reaching an agreement on a draft power contract with Alcoa to preserve over 500 good-paying jobs at the Intalco aluminum smelter in Ferndale, Washington. “Today’s announcement is a huge win for Intalco employees, their families, and our community. A long-term power contract will keep over 500 family-wage jobs at the plant and support hundreds of other local jobs related to the aluminum industry,” said Larsen. “This is a great step forward for Whatcom County during these difficult economic times.” Under the terms of the agreement announced today, BPA will provide Intalco with electricity to operate 2 potlines for the next nineteen months, with an option to extend the contract for an additional five years at that time. BPA will accept public comments on the draft contract for the next two weeks. “I want to thank BPA Administrator Steve Wright and his staff for their work to develop a contract that works for BPA, Alcoa and our region’s ratepayers,” continued Larsen. “I encourage BPA and Alcoa to continue working to finalize this contract quickly to provide stability and security for employees at the Intalco plant.” ###
10.30.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Monday, November 2nd, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host a telephone town hall with constituents from across the 2nd Congressional District to discuss the Affordable Health Care for America Act that was introduced in the House on Thursday. Larsen will make the call from his office in Washington, D.C. to speak with constituents from Island, Snohomish, Skagit, San Juan, King and Whatcom Counties. “I’m looking forward to hosting another telephone town hall with 2nd District Constituents,” said Larsen. “In August, I hosted two in-person town halls on health care reform in the 2nd District. Those events were well-attended, and I want to continue to hear from my constituents and share my thoughts on health care reform as I examine the bill and prepare to take this important vote.”What: U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen’s health care reform telephone town hall When: Monday, November 2nd 6:30 PM Pacific Time / 9:30 PM Eastern TimeCall-in: (877) 269-7289Code: 13740 ###
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today following the introduction of new House health care reform legislation, HR 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. The bill can be found here: https://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf “After an initial review of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, I am pleased to see that many of the principles I support have been included in the bill. “I have been fighting to make sure the health care reform bill includes a fair deal for Washington state. Specifically, I have been pushing to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. “This bill includes language to fix the long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care in Washington state. “I am also pleased that this bill bans discrimination for pre-existing conditions, age and gender. It is just plain unacceptable to deny an individual coverage, or charge them through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a pre-existing condition such as diabetes or cancer. “The bill will protect people’s choice of doctors and health plans, and will expand access to quality, affordable health insurance options. And the bill includes a public option that works for Washington state. “This bill also appears to be a good deal for our seniors. It will improve Medicare benefits, strengthen the solvency of the Medicare program, and close the “doughnut hole” in the Medicare Prescription Drug Program. “I plan to read and examine every page of this bill over the next week prior to taking this vote. I encourage my constituents to read this bill and contact my office to voice their opinions before the House takes this vote next week. ###
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed appropriations legislation that includes $6 million secured by Representative Rick Larsen for the National Parks Service to purchase Mitchell Hill, over 300 acres of forestland near San Juan Island National Historical Park. This funding was included in the conference report of the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which is expected to pass the Senate and head to the President’s desk early next week. “Protecting the historical and natural values of Mitchell Hill has been a priority for me for the last several years. Mitchell Hill is both a great place to go hiking and the home of an important part of San Juan Island history,” said Larsen. “Funding for Mitchell Hill will enhance recreational and educational opportunities for the over 250,000 visitors who visit San Juan Island National Historical Park each year.” The funding secured by Larsen will be used by the National Parks Service to acquire over 300 acres of land currently being managed by the Washington State Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Selling Mitchell Hill to the National Parks Service has earned widespread support in the local community, including the endorsement of the National Parks Service, San Juan County, DNR and the San Juan Island Trails Committee. ###
10.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in response to Boeing’s announcement that it will locate its second assembly line for the 787 jetliner in Charleston, South Carolina. “The best aerospace workers in the world are in the Pacific Northwest. To build the 787 anywhere else but in the Puget Sound region is a mistake. “The Governor made a compelling case why the best place for Boeing to do business is right here in Washington state. Our state’s large, highly skilled and adaptable workforce, attractive business climate, stable and sustainable government, strong education system, robust and funded infrastructure improvement plan and the highest quality of life of any competitor should have made this decision a slam dunk for Boeing.“Instead, it was an air ball.“It is now clear, if it wasn’t before, that there weren’t enough training facilities we could build, or a large enough B&O tax break we could give, to keep Boeing from moving their second line to South Carolina. The labor-management divide was just too wide to bridge.“Despite today’s announcement, the Pacific Northwest remains the center of the aerospace industry. I want to recognize the nearly 30,000 Boeing workers in my district who continue to build the best aerospace products in the world. I will continue my fight to maintain and bring new good-paying jobs to the 2nd District.Boeing is the largest private employer in the 2nd Congressional District that Larsen represents in the U.S. House of Representatives.###
10.21.2009	Washington, D.C. — The House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing yesterday on legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) to strengthen the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative. This legislation (H.R. 1672) will reauthorize the Northwest Straits Commission, which supports conservation and habitat restoration projects in the marine waters of Northwest Washington. Rep. Larsen submitted written testimony and presented the Committee with letters of support from local elected officials, private companies, and environmental organizations.“The Northwest Straits Commission does outstanding work to protect marine habitat for endangered and threatened species, including salmon,” said Larsen. “Senator Murray and I are proud to sponsor legislation that supports the Commission’s successful grassroots approach to habitat conservation.” “The Northwest Straits are one of our state’s most treasured economic and environmental resources,” said Senator Murray. “Today’s hearing will help move this legislation forward and allow us to continue protecting and conserving the Northwest Straits. I thank my partner Congressman Larsen for his great work on this issue in the House.”“The Northwest Straits Initiative has proven itself to be a worthy model for engaging citizens in difficult conservation and restoration projects,” said Ginny Broadhurst, Executive Director of the Northwest Straits Commission, who testified in support of the legislation to the Natural Resources Committee. “I offer my thanks to Representative Larsen and Senator Murray for their support of the Commission and their leadership on this legislation.”Larsen’s written testimony to the Committee follows:Chairwoman Bordallo and Ranking Member Brown, I would like to thank you for holding today’s hearing on the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative Reauthorization Act of 2009 (H.R. 1672). I appreciate your attention to this legislation, which is important to ocean health and the economy in my district.The term Northwest Straits refers to the U.S. waters of the Strait of Juan de Fuca, the San Juan Islands and northern Puget Sound reaching from the southern borders of Snohomish and Jefferson counties in Washington state north to the Canadian border.The Northwest Straits region makes up nearly 60% of the Puget Sound coastline. These waters are home to many iconic and endangered species, such as pacific salmon and orca whales, and provide jobs for many Americans.The Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative was authorized by Congress in 1998 to restore and protect the marine resources of the region. This legislation created the Northwest Straits Commission, which for the last 11 years has worked with local stakeholders to develop and implement conservation and restoration projects. H.R. 1672 will make minor changes to the Commission’s governance structure and extend its authorization five years. The Northwest Straits Commission has the experience and expertise needed to execute complicated recovery projects. NBC Nightly News recently featured a story on the Commission’s use of $4.5 million of funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to remove hundreds of acres of abandoned fishing gear from the seafloor, a project which has employed about 40 people.The legislation before the committee today is the result of a collaborative effort involving many local stakeholders. I have received letters of support from local elected officials, businesspeople, environmentalists, and other community organizations.I would like to thank U.S. Senator Patty Murray for leading a similar effort in the Senate. Working together, I hope we can protect this region for endangered fish, threatened wildlife, and the many people who use the Northwest Straits region for commerce and recreation.Thank you again for holding a hearing on H.R. 1672 and for the opportunity to provide this testimony.###
10.20.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today called for Congress to pass additional measures to create jobs, help Americans hurt most by the recession, and further strengthen our country’s foundation for future economic growth.“The economic recovery package that Congress passed in February is working and will continue to work. Because of this recovery package we are working our way out of a recession,” said Larsen. “But Congress must continue to do everything possible to create jobs, help those hurt the most and strengthen the foundation for our economic growth. We must not rest until everyone who lost their job is back to work.” Larsen cited leading economists and the White House Council of Economic Advisors that have credited the recovery package with easing the severity of the recession. The recovery package has added 2.3 percentage points to economic growth in the second quarter of 2009 and 3 percentage points to the third quarter. Larsen also noted the recovery package will invest an additional $549 billion into American communities.“Economic recovery dollars are going to work in our communities to create jobs, strengthen our infrastructure, and get our economy moving again,” said Larsen, who last week toured a transportation project in Marysville that was funded by recovery dollars: the eleventh stimulus project he has visited. The Washington State Department of Transportation estimates that by the end of August, the recovery package had created or sustained 8,245 jobs building and repairing highways, infrastructure, and public transportation in Washington state. Nationwide, the Council of Economic Advisors estimates that the recovery package has added between 600,000 and 1.1 million jobs so far. Jobs will continue to be created as the second half of the recovery package is spent out.“While the recovery package is helping stem the tide of job loss, we must do more to put Americans back to work,” said Larsen. “Today, I call on my colleagues in Congress to extend the first-time homebuyer tax credit to help strengthen our economic foundation and create jobs in Washington state and around the country.” Larsen took action and joined over 150 representatives in sending a bipartisan letter calling on House leadership to extend the homebuyer tax credit before it expires. Unless Congress acts, the first-time homebuyer tax credit will expire on November 30, 2009. According to the Washington Association of REALTORS, extending the tax credit for an additional six months could create over 4,000 jobs in Washington state. Larsen also expressed the need to extend certain recovery programs. He urged his colleagues to take three specific actions to help families hurt most by the recession: extend unemployment benefits for an additional 6 months, continue increased food stamp benefits to help families put food on their table, and extend health benefits under COBRA for an additional 6 months. Finally, Larsen called on the administration to do more to make credit available to small businesses. “After holding small business workshops across the 2nd District earlier this year, it was clear access to credit is still tight and small businesses are feeling the credit crunch,” said Larsen. Larsen voiced his concerns to the House Subcommittee on Finance and Tax about small businesses ability to access capital. Specifically, he urged the subcommittee to support the Small Business Credit Expansion and Loan Markets Stabilization Act of 2009 (H.R. 3723). The bill would increase the maximum gross size of 7(a) loans for $2 millions to $3 million and focus the loan program on startup and early stage firms; end improper denials and long waiting periods when lenders apply for the SBA to honor its guarantees by requiring prompt and proper payment of guarantee repurchase applications; and extend the ARC loan program for another year and increase the maximum size of the loan from $35,000 to $50,000.“Moving forward, we must build a foundation for future economic growth by putting in place appropriate regulations for our financial markets so that we never face an economic crisis like this one again,” Larsen concluded. “It is also imperative that we restore fiscal discipline to Washington and begin to wind down the financial rescue package to pay back American taxpayers.” Larsen’s Proposal to Create Jobs and Help Americans Hit Hard by the Recession Create Jobs in our Local Communities: Continue the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) investment in our local communities to create jobs Over $238 billion in recovery dollars (40 percent) have been spent out. $549 billion (60 percent) will be spent out over the next two years and will continue to create jobs in our local communities (source: recovery.gov). Extend the first-time homebuyer tax credit through June 2010 to create over 4,000 jobs in Washington state Larsen joined over 150 of his colleagues in sending a bipartisan letter calling on House leadership to extend the homebuyer tax credit before it expires. According to the Washington Association of REALTORS, extending the tax credit for an additional six months could create over 4,000 jobs in Washington state. Help Americans Hit Hard By the Recession:Extend unemployment benefits to families who are still unemployed due to the recession Rep. Larsen voted to provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in high unemployment states like Washington (HR 3548). Extend increased food stamp benefits and COBRA health benefits through July 2010 to families in need ARRA increased food stamp benefits by 20 percent and paid for 65 percent of COBRA health insurance coverage for unemployed workers. Unless Congress acts, these benefits will expire at the end of the year. Build a Foundation for Future Economic Growth:Increase access to credit for small businesses Rep. Larsen submitted testimony to the House Subcommittee on Finance and Tax supporting a bill (HR 3723) that would improve the America’s Recovery Capital (ARC) loan program that was initially authorized by ARRA after hearing from small businesses in the 2nd District about their difficulties accessing capital. According to the Small Business Development Center, in Skagit County at least 25 ARC loans have been submitted and not accepted by local banks. By extending the program for another year, simplifying the application to only one page, and increasing the maximum size of the loan from $35,000 to $50,000, this bill would greatly increase the chances of a small business being able to secure an ARC loan. Spur lending and loan modification in the troubled commercial real estate market Rep. Larsen supports measures the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) are taking to encourage lending and help banks modify loans. Nearly $500 billion in commercial real estate loans are expected to come due annually over the next few years, and they must be refinanced or modified in order to avoid default. Pass the surface transportation authorization bill to create or sustain six million jobs Rep. Larsen, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, is helping to draft the surface transportation authorization bill. The bill will invest in our nation’s highways, bridges, transit, and high-speed rail to create or sustain six million jobs over the next six years. Next Steps:Pass financial regulatory reform legislation to put in place appropriate regulations for our financial markets so that we reduce the likelihood of facing another economic crisis Rep. Larsen supports legislation being developed by the House Financial Services Committee to impose strong oversight of financial firms and the financial markets, protect consumers from financial abuse and give the government the tools it needs to manage financial crises in the future. Wind down the financial rescue (TARP) programs that are no longer needed to stabilize our economy Rep. Larsen supports the Administration’s actions to close the guarantee program for money market funds and several Public-Private Investment Funds, and their recent announcement that the Capital Purchase Program, the Capital Assistance Program, and the Targeted Investment Program will be shut down by the end of the year. Restore fiscal discipline to Washington D.C. In July, Rep. Larsen voted for a fiscal responsibility bill (HR 2920) that requires Congress to offset spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. Rep. Larsen has cosponsored legislation (HR 1557) to create a long-term spending reform commission tasked with reviewing the unsustainable imbalance between long-term federal spending commitments and projected revenues particularly in regard to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, Rep. Larsen voted for a bill (HR 2101) to restore much needed fiscal responsibility and accountability in the defense procurement process that could save taxpayers tens of billions of dollars down the road. Rep. Larsen voted for President Obama’s Budget, which will cut the deficit by nearly two-thirds by 2013. ###
10.20.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) congratulated Skagit Valley College for recently receiving a $110,528 federal grant from the Public Telecommunications Facilities Program. Skagit Valley College will use the funds to establish a new public radio station, KSVU on 90.1 FM, bringing local communication and educational programs to currently under-served areas in the Skagit River Valley. “Skagit Valley College’s effort to provide expanded access to local radio is a great service to our community,” said Larsen. “This was a highly competitive grant process, and I congratulate Skagit Valley College on their success.”KSVU General Manager Rip Robbins said, “I look forward to developing new radio programs with the residents of the upriver valley, who have expressed great interest in having a radio station in their community.”“These funds will help Skagit Valley College and KSVU to provide important programming and news about education and local service issues to our friends and neighbors in eastern Skagit County,” said Dr. Gary Tollefson, President of SVC. “It’s an exciting opportunity for the college and the communities we serve.”Public Telecommunications Facilities Program (PTFP) is a grant program directed by an agency within U.S. Department of Commerce. PTFP designates a portion of their funding to provide financial support to public radio stations to help bring educational and cultural broadcasts. The PTFP grant to Skagit Valley College will supplement the purchase of equipment for the new radio station, KSVU.###
10.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen recently sent a letter to the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) asking that they extend the public comment period for their proposed rules to restrict vessel activity near orca whales. The rules, which were proposed in July, would prohibit vessels from approaching within 200 yards of orcas at all times, outlaw parking in the path of a moving orca, and ban virtually all vessel traffic within 800 yards of west side of San Juan Island for 5 months each year.Larsen’s letter states: “I am deeply concerned that the proposed rules would restrict recreational opportunities for local communities and hurt local businesses without providing meaningful protection for orcas. The NMFS proposal will prevent many of my constituents from fishing, kayaking and boating for pleasure as well as severely hinder the operation of commercial whale watching and kayak touring industries.”NMFS has conducted three public hearings on the proposed rules – Anacortes on September 24th, Seattle on September 30th, and Friday Harbor on October 5th. At these meetings, hundreds of concerned citizens and local business owners came to express their views regarding the proposals.“Over the last few months, many of my constituents have contacted me to express their opposition to the proposed restrictions on whale watching activities in the San Juan Islands,” said Larsen. “I believe that the National Marine Fisheries Service needs to take more time to hear their concerns, meet with local business owners, and consider how their proposal is going to affect real jobs in Northwest Washington.”At this time, NMFS has not indicated when the proposed rules will be finalized. The full text of the letter is pasted below.October 8, 2009 Dr. James BalsigerActing Assistant Administrator, National Marine Fisheries Service1315 East-West HighwaySilver Spring, Maryland 20910Dear Dr. Balsiger: On July 27th, the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) proposed regulations regarding endangered Southern Resident Orcas residing in the inland waters of Washington state (Docket No. 070821475-81493-01). The purpose of this letter is to ask you to extend the deadline for public comment on these proposed regulations.These regulations would prohibit vessels from approaching orcas within 200 yards, prevent vessels from parking in the path of orcas, and create a large conservation area on the West side of San Juan Island, into which no boats could enter for five months each year. I am deeply concerned that the proposed rules would restrict recreational opportunities for local communities and hurt local businesses without providing meaningful protection for orcas. The NMFS proposal will prevent many of my constituents from fishing, kayaking and boating for pleasure as well as severely hinder the operation of commercial whale watching and kayak touring industries.While I question the substance of these proposed regulations, I recognize that NMFS is engaged in public outreach as part of its rulemaking process. In meetings in Anacortes, Seattle and Friday Harbor, several hundred concerned citizens and local business owners gathered to share comments on the proposed rules. Although NMFS has not yet published the comments they have received via mail and email, anecdotal evidence indicates that hundreds more of my constituents have written NMFS to express their views on these proposals.Given the intense interest in the proposed rules, I ask that you extend the deadline for public comments to January 15, 2010. I further ask that you give full and fair consideration to concerns being raised by residents of Northwest Washington. In particular, I encourage you to conduct extensive outreach to those stakeholders who frequent the Haro Strait for recreational and commercial purposes.Thank you for considering my request and for your ongoing engagement with my office regarding the actions you are taking to protect Southern Resident Orcas. I look forward to working with you to restore this endangered species while preserving recreational and commercial opportunities for my constituents.Sincerely,Rick Larsen###
10.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill (H.R. 1593) to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a component of the Wild and Scenic River System. The House legislation, sponsored by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), will permanently protect the free flowing nature of this tributary of the Skagit River. This legislation was introduced in March of this year and earned widespread local support, including endorsements from environmentalists, Skagit County Commissioners, fishing groups, and farmers. “I thank my colleagues in the House for supporting the permanent protection of Illabot Creek,” said Larsen. “This Wild and Scenic designation will benefit not only endangered species such as Chinook salmon, but also families who hunt, fish and hike near this pristine creek. I thank Senator Murray for teaming up with me to protect this important habitat.” Illabot Creek, which flows for more than 14 miles through Skagit County, provides important spawning habitat for Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout, all threatened species. Further, the area around Illabot creek is home to several other species including bald eagles, elk, and spotted owls. Designating the creek as Wild and Scenic will prohibit dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of a river and establish a protected corridor extending one-quarter mile from the ordinary high-water mark on both sides of the river. Having passed the House of Representatives, this legislation will now have to pass the Senate before being signed into law. Senator Patty Murray has introduced similar legislation in the U.S. Senate and is working to ensure its passage.“We take our natural resources very seriously in Washington state, and this bill takes us another step forward toward protecting a pristine and delicate habitat for future generations,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Preserving Illabot Creek is vitally important to the many fish and wildlife that depend on it to survive, and it will ensure that this incredible land is protected for hunters, fishermen, and families to enjoy. I thank Congressman Larsen for his strong work on this issue in the House, and I look forward to continuing to work with him to protect Washington state’s amazing natural resources.” ###
10.08.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in support of the conference report on H.R. 2647, the Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, which will provide a pay raise for service members, support military families and troops in the field and make responsible investments in our national defense to keep us safe. The legislation also included provisions to strengthen law enforcement against hate crimes. The conference report passed the House by a vote of 281 to 146 and must now clear the Senate before it is signed into law.“This year’s National Defense Authorization Act makes the vital investments we need to protect our nation and our troops in the field,” said Larsen. “This legislation will increase military pay by 3.4% and improve support for service members and their families.” Earlier this year, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen, and President Barack Obama called on Congress to eliminate many weapons programs that were over-budget and behind schedule. The National Defense Authorization Act incorporates almost all of their recommendations.“President Obama called on Congress to make tough decisions to improve our national security, and this bill is an important step towards reforming our defense budget,” said Larsen. “This bill cancels expensive weapons programs that don’t make us safer and invests in urgently needed equipment and technology.”The Defense Authorization bill will: Provide a 3.4% pay raise for all service members; Help restore military readiness with strong investments in our Armed Services; Focus on Afghanistan and on the redeployment from Iraq; and Require the Department of Defense to submit an annual report to Congress outlining its electronic warfare strategy, a provision sponsored by Rep. Larsen. In addition, the legislation also includes provisions to broaden the hate crime definition to include crimes motivated by a victim’s sexual orientation, gender or disability, and authorize the Department of Justice to assist local law enforcement officials with hate crime prosecutions.“I strongly believe that we need to provide equal protections against hate motivated crimes to all Americans. We also need to provide our local law enforcement officials with the resources and tools they need to prosecute hate crimes” said Larsen. “Right now, state and local governments are on their own when it comes to prosecuting even the most violent crimes. But if those governments are unwilling or unable to prosecute hate crimes – and if the Justice Department believes justice will not be served – this law will let the federal authorities lend a hand to state and local authorities.” The hate crimes provisions included in the bill will authorize $5 million each for Fiscal Years 2010 and 2011 for the Justice Department to provide one year grants to state, local, and tribal law enforcement for expenses relating to the investigation and prosecution of hate crimes. “The passage of hate crimes legislation will ensure that our local law enforcement agencies have the resources to keep our community safe and deliver justice to victims that are targets of hate,” said Larsen. ###
10.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Conference Report on H.R. 2997 - the 2010 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. The bill included provisions that would benefit farms in Washington state’s 2nd Congressional district. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 263 to 162.“Washington state’s unique and diverse agriculture industry is a critical part of our economy,” said Larsen. “Our region produces hundreds of commodities – creating jobs, feeding families and contributing $726 million to the economy in the 2nd Congressional District each year.In addition, Larsen applauded language in the bill that would allow the importation of processed poultry or poultry products from China after passing USDA inspection and after the Secretary of Agriculture notifies Congress that certain safety conditions were met.“In the current economic climate, trade is critical for ensuring a robust economic recovery and avoiding protectionism,” said Larsen. “This provision is a win for the U.S.-China relationship and the American consumer.”“Trade between the U.S. and China is vitally important to Washington state. Since 2006, China has been Washington state's largest and most rapidly growing export market.”“Investing in Washington state agriculture helps local producers compete with farms across the state and around the world and helps make our economy stronger for the future.”The legislation includes the following funding secured by Larsen: Agriculture Research Service (ARS) Facility in Pullman$3.74 million for a United States Department of Agriculture-Agriculture Research Services (ARS) facility located in Pullman, WA to provide ARS scientists with state-of-the-art research facilities. A new USDA-ARS facility, fully integrated with the Washington State University Life Science/Biotechnology complex, will provide modern laboratories and equipment to conduct agriculture research to keep Northwest growers competitive in the global market. Agriculture is a top employer in Washington state. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Organic Cropping$264,000 for research into priorities identified by Northwest organic farmers including developing wheat varieties for organic systems, seed treatments for organic vegetable production, and studying economic trends in organic production. Several of these projects have the potential to advance sustainable agriculture on a national scale. There are nearly 700 certified organic farms in Washington state. Washington state is second in the nation in “farmgate” sales of organic products directly from the producer with $159.8 million sold. Pacific Northwest Small Fruit Center$307,000 for research into plant breeding, pest management, genetic research, and processing methods for small fruits. The Center helps Northwest farmers integrate scientific research into their farming and processing. Research done by the Center is focused on profitable and environmentally-responsible farming and production practices. Washington state leads the country in raspberry production and is a leading producer of other berries and grapes as well. In 2007, Washington raised 55 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $27.9 million.Protecting the Pacific Northwest Grape and Wine Industry from Plant Viruses$260,000 to combat the presence or spread of devastating plant viruses affecting the grape and wine industry. The Washington state wine, grape and grape juice industries provide approximately 19,000 jobs and contribute $ 3 billion annually to the state’s economy. Washington is the largest producer of juice grapes and the second largest producer of premium wine grapes in the United States. Around 900 Pacific Northwest wineries depend upon the production of quality wine grapes. This project would help to ensure that planting materials entering the Northwest are virus-free, that our vineyards remain virus-free, and that we prolong the longevity of the industry. Potato Breeding Lines for Biotic and Abiotic Yield$61,000 for ongoing research at the Agriculture Research Service facility in Prosser to develop and evaluate new varieties of potatoes with special attention to disease, pest, and stress resistance, as well as yield and quality characteristics. This funding supports cooperative research with Washington State University, Oregon State University, and the University of Idaho to evaluate the genetics of seeds provided to farmers to help them plant potato crops that will succeed in their unique soil and weather conditions. (Biotic refers to living stressors, such as fungi or insects, while abiotic refers to non-living stressors, such as intense sunlight, wind or flooding) Research done in this program has a direct impact on growers throughout the region, and provides for the profitable and sustainable production of potatoes. Washington state is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all domestic potatoes. The potato industry in Washington state directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion annually and creates over 20,000 jobs. Potato Research$1.436 million for research to develop and commercialize new potato varieties that benefit all segments of the Northwest potato industry. These funds are critical for sustaining the potato industry and providing a healthy, inexpensive food supply for American consumers. New potato varieties help improve quality, bring increased yield, and require less fertilizer and pesticide, increasing profitability and lessening environmental impact. Washington is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all U.S. potatoes. The potato industry directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion throughout the Washington economy annually and creates over 20,000 jobs in the state. Washington Agricultural Competitiveness$469,000 million to identify and expand international trade opportunities and domestic marketing opportunities for Washington state agricultural products. Washington state's $42 billion food and agriculture industry employs 160,000 people and contributes 13% percent to the state's economy. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Exporting Washington agricultural goods to foreign nations and marketing our products in new domestic markets will support this important industry and create new jobs across the state.###
10.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured federal dollars for the Skagit River General Investigation Study in a final funding bill passed by the House of Representatives last week. The Energy and Water appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2010 includes $359,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study. The final bill must pass the Senate before it can be signed into law. “It is critical that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers complete the Skagit River General Investigation Study so our community can move forward with needed flood control projects,” said Larsen. “I thank my partner in the Senate, Senator Patty Murray, for helping deliver these important resources for Skagit County.”“During these difficult financial times, we appreciate Congressman Larsen’s and Senator Murray’s work to fight for continued funding of the Skagit River General Investigation,” said Skagit County Commissioner Ken Dahlstedt. “Because of their leadership on behalf of Skagit County, the Skagit River GI will continue to work toward flood protection for all of the Skagit Valley.”Larsen also applauded an additional $203,155 in economic recovery funds that were recently allocated for the Skagit River General Investigation Study - bringing the total amount of economic recovery funds received for the study to $308,647. According to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the funds are being used to execute a $286,480 contract with an architecture and engineering firm that will identify Probable Failure Points in the Skagit River levee system, a component of the general investigation study. “Economic recovery funds are going to work in Skagit County to create jobs and keep our community safe,” said Larsen. “I will continue working to deliver federal funds to help protect Skagit families, farms and businesses from future floods.” ###
09.30.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the recent announcement by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) that Farm Power Lynden will receive nearly $3 million - $500,000 in grants and $2.4 million in loans - to construct an anaerobic digester in Whatcom County. The federal funds will help Farm Power Lynden create an estimated 60 jobs in the region.“This USDA award is going to create jobs in Whatcom County, reduce pollution, and support our community’s family farms,” said Larsen. “It is a small but important investment towards achieving energy independence and creating green jobs in our region.”The anaerobic digester will use manure from over 2,000 Whatcom County dairy cows to create methane gas, which will be burned to create enough electricity to power 500 homes. Additionally, the excess heat created by the digester’s operation will be used for a nearby greenhouse grower, Van Wingerdern Inc. This is Farm Power’s 2nd anaerobic digester project in Northwest Washington. Their first facility, which also received assistance from the USDA’s Rural Energy for America Program (REAP), opened in Skagit County earlier this month.“Consistent federal support like that available from the USDA REAP program is absolutely invaluable when planning large renewable energy projects,” said Kevin Maas. “We've been working to develop Farm Power Lynden for over a year with the knowledge that we could apply for REAP funding as the project matured.”“Anaerobic digesters provide local renewable electricity while saving dairy farmers money,” said Daryl Maas. “Farm Power Lynden can add yet another benefit by providing low-cost, zero-emission heat to one of Whatcom County's largest greenhouse growers, Van Wingerden Inc.”###
09.25.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded a bipartisan compromise reached by conferees on the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill regarding the import of poultry products from China. The agreement would allow the imports of processed poultry or poultry products from China only after passing USDA inspection and after the Secretary of Agriculture notifies Congress that certain conditions have met. “The agreement reached by Agriculture Appropriations Conferees maintains the highest standards of food safety while resolving an issue that has been a point of contention between the U.S. and China for several years.“In the current economic climate, trade is critical for ensuring a robust economic recovery and avoiding protectionism. Today’s announcement is a win for the U.S.-China relationship and the American consumer.“Trade between the U.S. and China is vitally important to Washington State. Since 2006, China has been Washington state's largest and most rapidly growing export market.“Earlier this week, I joined with 36 of my colleagues on a letter to the Conferees urging that an agreement on this issue be reached. I commend Rep. DeLauro, Rep. Kingston and the rest of the Conference Committee for finding a solution to this very difficult issue.”###
09.24.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the Air Force’s draft Request for Proposals (RFP) for the aerial refueling tanker program. Larsen’s congressional district is home to Boeing’s Everett plan, assembly site for the 747, 767, 777 and 787.“The procurement process for the tanker program must be a fair, open and transparent competition that ensures our warfighters get the best tanker for their mission and our taxpayers get the most bang for their buck. “Last year, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) upheld Boeing’s protest after it determined that the Air Force had failed to take into consideration the lower cost and greater capabilities of the Boeing tanker. After an initial review of the draft RFP, I am pleased that the Air Force is focused on addressing many of the issues raised by the GAO last year. “The Air Force made it clear that they are trying to reduce subjectivity within the competition by eliminating over 700 so-called ‘optional requirements’ from last year’s RFP and instead focusing on the core needs of warfighter. The Air Force also said that it will quantify the life-cycle cost of fuel and military construction associated with each bid, which is vital to protecting the American taxpayer from hidden costs.“I am concerned, however, that the draft RFP released today does not take into account the World Trade Organization’s recent ruling that Airbus has received illegal subsidies from the European Union. Unfortunately, the draft RFP ignores this obvious conflict between our nation’s trade policy and our nation’s defense procurement policy. “I have asked President Obama to present a clear plan to make sure that American taxpayers are not forced to foot the bill for illegal European subsidies and look forward to hearing his response.“As the competition for the aerial refueling tanker moves forward, I will work with my colleagues to hold the Air Force accountable to a fair, open and transparent competition that protects American taxpayers and American workers.###
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to make the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college in history – at no cost to taxpayers. The Student Aid & Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) (HR 3221) would shift all new federal student lending to the Direct Loan program starting July 1st 2010, generating funds that will be reinvested in Pell Grants, community colleges and other education initiatives. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 253 to 171. “Today our country took a giant step forward for American students and families,” said Larsen. “During these tough times, this important step will help to rebuild our economy and make sure our young people have the ability to attend college or get career training. Washington students and families have been staggering under the enormous weight of tuition costs and loan repayments. With the passage of SAFRA, we have made a historic investment in higher education a reality.” “The passage of the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will mean increased Pell Grants for our neediest students at a time when more families need help in paying for college. The adoption of the Direct Loan program for all schools will ensure a stable source of funding for student loans and a simple, cost effective way for students nationwide to receive their loans. HR 3221 is a positive step forward in ensuring access to higher education,” said Kay Lewis, Director of Student Financial Aid at the University of Washington. The bill will change the way the student loan system functions by originating new loans through the government’s Direct Loan program, but will maintain competition among private lenders and non-profits to maintain quality customer service for student borrowers. This change will make college loans more reliable for students and families -- and ensure that loans operate in the best interests of borrowers by reducing many of the potential conflicts of interest that exist in the current loan system. “Washington colleges and universities that have switched to the Direct Loan program have found it to be very positive. It simplifies the process for students and eliminates the possibility of predatory lending. By expanding the Direct Loan program, the estimated savings of over $80 billion will significantly increase PELL grants for students. This will be a tremendous help for students to have the aid they need to attend and remain in college to achieve their goals,” said Patricia Onion, Vice President for Educational Services at Whatcom Community College. SAFRA will reform the system of federal student loans to save the taxpayers $87 billion and will direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending.This bill also includes an increase in government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. Pell Grants would increase to $6,900 by 2019 from $5,350 today. SAFRA would also keep interest rates low on government-subsidized loans, make investments in community colleges, expand the Perkins low-cost loan program to every U.S. college, and simplify the process of applying for student financial aid. ###
09.16.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to increase investments into the Department of Energy’s (DoE) Vehicle Technologies Program, accelerating the development of the next generation of fuel-efficient cars and trucks. Western Washington University’s Advance Vehicle Research Institute has previously used funding from DoE to develop innovative, clean transportation technologies. The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act (H.R. 3246), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 312 to 114.“We need to develop new transportation technologies to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and reduce harmful pollution” said Larsen. “This legislation will support cutting edge research at Western Washington University and around the country so we can build the next generation of fuel-efficient cars and trucks right here in the United States.”"We are excited about the potential for HR 3246 to improve fuel efficiency and reduce fuel consumption of our nation's vehicle fleet,” said Eric Leonhardt, Director of Western Washington University’s Advance Vehicle Research Institute. “We hope that some of the funding will be available for Western Washington University's Vehicle Research Institute to develop lightweight material, manufacturing processes, and powertrains to create 100 mile per gallon passenger vehicles. We will use these projects to continue to educate undergraduate students in how to design, engineer and build these ultra-efficient vehicles." The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act will support new investments in vehicle technology by:Authorizing over $2.5 billion for the Department of Energy’s Vehicle Technologies Program over the next five yearsDirecting specific funding levels for heavy duty vehicles and passenger vehicles to ensure that we are investing in all forms of transportation vehiclesPromoting partnerships with automobile manufacturers and research institutionsEstablishing a new pilot program to increase the efficiency of non-traditional vehicles, such as off-road vehicles and agricultural vehicles.###
09.15.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after the House passed a resolution disapproving of the conduct by Rep. Joe Wilson (SC – 02) during the joint session of Congress. The resolution passed by a vote of 240 to 179.“Today's vote to express disapproval of Rep. Joe Wilson’s conduct is not about his speech; it is about behavior that is not allowed on the floor of the House of Representatives. In no circumstance should any member, Democrat or Republican, be allowed to engage in such behavior. “Rep. Joe Wilson’s outburst on the floor of the House of Representatives was both unacceptable and a breach of House decorum.“The House of Representatives has rules of civility and decency that have sustained basic respect for over 200 years. As decent as it was that Rep. Joe Wilson apologized to the president, that isn't enough. That was an apology given and accepted between two people.“Now, Rep. Joe Wilson, as a member of the House, must be accountable to the institution in which he serves. He must apologize to the House for his conduct or face admonishment. ###
09.15.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Todd Tiahrt (KS-04) – joined by forty-five of their colleagues in the House - sent a letter to President Obama yesterday expressing serious concerns about the lack of coordination between our nation’s defense procurement policy and our nation’s trade policy. In response to the World Trade Organization (WTO) interim ruling that the European Union (EU) provided Airbus billions of dollars in subsidies in the form of “launch aid,” Larsen and his colleagues questioned how these subsides will affect the upcoming competition to build the next generation of aerial refueling tankers for the U.S. military.“This WTO ruling confirms what U.S. officials have been saying for years – European nations have provided Airbus with illegal subsidies that directly harm the American aerospace industry and American workers,” wrote Larsen. In 2008, the Department of Defense awarded a $35 billion contract to build the next generation of aerial refueling tankers to a consortium led by Northrop Grumman and Airbus. However, this contract award was overturned by the Government Accountability Office due to errors in the Air Force’s procurement process for the tanker program. The Air Force is expected to restart the tanker competition as soon as this month. “Buying Airbus tankers would reward European governments with Department of Defense dollars at the same time that the U.S. Trade Representative is trying to punish European governments for flouting international laws. Our federal trade policies and defense procurement policies should work in coordination, not conflict. We believe that American taxpayers must not be forced to foot the bill for products which benefited from illegal subsidies,” the letter continues.“Last year, I said that President Bush had put his Administration on a collision course with itself by purchasing illegally subsidized tankers,” said Larsen. “Now the Obama Administration must take steps to explain how they plan to avoid a crash between our defense procurement policies and our trade policies.” “There is a huge breakdown between our nation’s defense procurement policy and our trade policy,” said Tiahrt. “The Obama administration should not delay in scrutinizing and repairing this broken system. Until then, we should not be giving defense contracts to companies entangled in illegal activities that place American workers at a competitive disadvantage. We need a tanker built by a company that can be trusted and that best meets the needs of the Air Force and the American taxpayer—and I wholeheartedly believe that is the Boeing KC-767.” The full text of the letter follows: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to highlight our serious and ongoing concerns about the lack of coordination between our nation’s defense procurement policy and our nation’s trade policy. According to media reports, last Friday the World Trade Organization (WTO) issued an interim ruling that Airbus has benefited from significant illegal subsidies. This WTO ruling confirms what U.S. officials have been saying for years – European nations have provided Airbus with illegal subsidies that directly harm the American aerospace industry and American workers. We applaud the office of the United States Trade Representative for aggressively pursuing this case over the last five years. However, we are deeply concerned that the United States Air Force is still considering purchasing over $35 billion worth of aerial refueling tankers which are based on Airbus’ illegally-subsidized aircraft. Buying Airbus tankers would reward European governments with Department of Defense dollars at the same time that the U.S. Trade Representative is trying to punish European governments for flouting international laws. Our federal trade policies and defense procurement policies should work in coordination, not conflict. We believe that American taxpayers must not be forced to foot the bill for products which benefited from illegal subsidies. We appreciate your continued commitment to pursuing this meritorious case against Airbus through the WTO and look forward to learning of your plan to resolve the conflict between our nation’s trade policies and defense procurement policies. Sincerely, ###
09.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — The House Natural Resources Committee has approved legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. The Committee approved the legislation (H.R. 1593) unanimously on a voice vote yesterday. “I visited Illabot Creek last month and saw first-hand how important it is to protect this habitat for endangered fish and wildlife. Yesterday’s mark-up brings us one step closer to permanently protecting Illabot Creek from development and maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing,” said Larsen. “I thank my partner on this legislation, Senator Murray, for her continued work to move this bill through the Senate.”Murray and Larsen’s legislation, which has the support of local stakeholders including elected officials, conservationists, fishermen, and farmers, prohibits dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of Illabot Creek. Illabot is vital spawning habitat for numerous threatened and endangered species, including bull trout and Chinook salmon.“Preserving Illabot Creek is vitally important to the many fish and wildlife that depend on it to survive, and this piece of legislation will ensure that this incredible area is protected for hunters, fishermen, and families to enjoy,” said Senator Patty Murray. “Yesterday’s action in the House is an important step toward protecting the pristine habitat of Illabot Creek for future generations. I thank Congressman Larsen for his strong work on this issue in the House, and I look forward to working with him as we continue to move this bill forward.”Having been approved by the House Natural Resources Committee, this legislation will next be considered by the full House of Representatives.###
09.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd) announced that they have successfully worked to help change a federal regulation that will assist Whidbey General Hospital in Coupeville, WA in continuing to treat military personnel, military retirees and their families. The rule change Murray and Larsen fought to help bring about will require TRICARE – the military’s medical benefit program – to increase federal reimbursement payments for medical services to a level similar to that of Medicare. The new rule means that Whidbey General and other Critical Access Hospitals, which receive reimbursements for military care at a lower rate, will be able to provide continued access to care. The rule change was recently published in the federal register.“This is a big victory not only for Whidbey military families, but also for Whidbey General and Critical Access Hospitals everywhere that have been providing care without the reimbursement they deserve,” said Senator Murray. “Access to quality care for those who’ve served should never be in doubt. This rule change means that in areas where rural hospitals are the only option, the needs of our military personnel, veterans and their families will be served.”“This rule change means the doors of Whidbey General will continue to be open to our local military personnel and their families,” said Congressman Larsen. “The community has been waiting for this, Whidbey General has been waiting for this, and our efforts have finally paid off. I will continue to work to meet the needs of the military men and women who call Whidbey home. “I would like to thank Congressman Larsen and Senator Murray for their tireless efforts in ensuring the finalization of the Tricare Critical Access Hospital rule, allowing us to continue to deliver the highest quality healthcare to our military population,” said Tom Tomasino , Chief Executive Officer of Whidbey General Hospital. Whidbey General serves a large portion of military service members, military retirees and their families on Whidbey Island. With the October 2007 reduction of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island’s emergency care services, Whidbey General has been increasingly relied upon to provide the military community with the care they need. However, because TRICARE reimbursement levels have been lower than other rates the added patient load has placed a strain on Whidbey General. The situation facing Whidbey General and other Critical Access Hospitals prompted Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen to contact Defense Secretary Robert Gates on January 31st, 2008. Congressman Larsen also contacted the Office of Management and Budget on March 21st, 2008 and Secretary Gates a second time on March 23rd, 2009. The rule change was cleared by the Department of Defense earlier this year, reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget and officially published in the federal register on August, 31st 2009."I am very pleased that this rate increase ensures that our nation's deserving TRICARE beneficiaries will continue to receive quality health care from Critical Access Hospitals in rural areas all across the West, and appreciate the hospitals and staff that continue to serve them so capably," said David J. McIntyre, Jr., President & CEO of TriWest Healthcare Alliance. ###
09.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement tonight following President Barack Obama’s address to a Joint Session of Congress: “Tonight President Obama spoke about the health care challenges we face as a nation, presented an outline of what is needed to overcome these challenges and offered the American people a hopeful vision for the future.“President Obama was clear: the time to act on health care reform is now.“In August, I held nearly 20 meetings and two town hall events on the topic of health care reform. I spoke with physicians, patients, small business owners and countless constituents from different backgrounds and circumstances. “There is no doubt that health care is costing our small business too much, our families too much and the federal government too much.“I agree with President Obama - the time to act on health care reform is now.“It’s time to bring stability and security to those who are just a pink slip away from joining the ranks of the uninsured. It’s time to provide coverage to the 104,000 individuals lacking insurance in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District. And it’s time to give much-needed financial relief to families and small business owners.“Health care reform will bring accountability to taxpayers who have watched health care costs become the largest driver of federal government spending. Reform will give hard working individuals and small businesses access to affordable health coverage, and give families and businesses needed stability and security. “It is time to provide relief to those who are struggling to stay afloat under the weight of increasing health care costs and premiums. “Tonight, President Obama gave us all reason to hope. He made a commitment to reform our current health care system by building on the parts of the system that work and fixing the parts that don’t work. The President committed to provide stability and security to those who have health insurance, provide insurance to those who don’t, and to slow the growth of health care costs for our families, our businesses and our government.“These are the stepping stones we must use to make President Obama’s vision for health care reform a reality. Now is the time to move forward.”
09.04.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement today in response to recent news stories regarding the interim ruling by the World Trade Organization (WTO) on aircraft subsidies to Airbus by the European Union. "According to recent media reports the WTO has ruled that the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth is that Launch Aid subsidies provided to Airbus by the European Union are in violation of WTO rules. This ruling confirms what U.S. officials have been saying for years – Airbus is hooked on illegal fiscal steroids. "Today’s ruling sends a strong message to our workers: We will not sit on our hands while Europe pumps up Airbus. We will fight to give you the level playing field that you deserve. "As the Department of Defense moves forward on purchasing the next generation of aerial refueling tankers, I will fight to make sure that U.S. taxpayers don’t foot the bill for illegal European subsidies. "Five years ago the U.S. Trade Representative said, 'No more subsidies,'" and today it appears the WTO agrees. I commend the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative for aggressively pursuing this case. "Boeing workers are the best aerospace workers in the world. I will continue my efforts in Congress to support the good-paying jobs which Boeing provides to my constituents." Larsen represents Washington’s 2nd Congressional District which includes the Everett Boeing plant.
08.27.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the Port of Bellingham’s unanimous vote to appeal NOAA’s recent selection of Newport, Oregon for the Marine Operations Center-Pacific: “I strongly supported Bellingham’s bid to become the new home for NOAA’s Marine Operations Center-Pacific. The Port, City, our education partners, marine trades industry and local leaders came together as a community to prepare an outstanding bid to bring NOAA to Bellingham. “I support our community’s decision today to protest NOAA’s selection of Newport, Oregon. The GAO needs to take a second look to make sure that NOAA’s decision was the result of a fair, open, and transparent process.”###
08.12.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Saturday August 8, Rep. Rick Larsen hosted a highly successful town hall meeting in Mount Vernon on health care reform. A large number of people with a wide range of views on health care reform came to participate, many more than the event site could accommodate. We are anticipating another large crowd for Rep. Larsen's health care town hall in Everett on Wednesday August 12. To accommodate more of Rep. Larsen's constituents and help more people participate, we aremoving the event to a new location. Rep. Larsen's Everett town hall on health care reform will now be held at the Aquasox Ballpark at Everett Memorial Stadium, located at 3900 Broadway in Everett. (From Interstate 5, take exit 192 and follow the signs to Broadway. Once you've reached Broadway, the stadium will be on your left.) Town Hall Meeting on Health Care Reform Hosted by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen Wednesday, August 12 5:00 PM PT Aquasox Ballpark at Everett Memorial Stadium Everett, WA
08.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — Health reform needs to happen. The status quo is unacceptable. Business as usual is unacceptable for small business owners who cannot afford coverage for their employees. The status quo does not work for families who are worried about their jobs and sky-high health costs. The current system must be reformed for taxpayers who have seen health care costs explode the federal budget deficit. Discrimination must stop for my constituents who are denied coverage, or charged through the roof, because of their age or gender, or because they have a preexisting condition such as diabetes or cancer. We need health care reform. Congress has made progress toward that goal: In February, the Children’s Health Insurance Program bill, or CHIP, was signed into law by President Obama to expand health care coverage to 11 million children across the country including nearly 3,400 kids in the 2nd Congressional District. As part of the Recovery Act, we invested in electronic medical records to reduce medical errors and improve the quality of care. More action is needed. Since 2001, health care premiums have grown four times faster than wages. In my district, 104,000 people don’t have health insurance. Many of our neighbors are just a pink slip away from joining the ranks for the uninsured. Those who do have coverage are struggling with the high cost of care. In the past months, I have hosted town halls and meetings across Snohomish County and Northwest Washington to hear from my constituents on health care, and I have worked in Congress to get reform that works for our community. I support the following principles for health insurance reform: • Ban discrimination for pre-existing conditions, age and gender; • Don’t try to fix what isn’t broken. If people have insurance and doctors they like, they should be able to keep them; • Eliminate fraud, waste and abuse in government health programs; • Invest in prevention and pay for quality of care, not quantity of tests; • And get reform that works for Washington state. The last point has been the source of some confusion. Under the status quo, Washington state is penalized for providing higher-quality, lower-cost care. Local Medicare reimbursement rates are so low that many local doctors do not accept patients on Medicare. This problem makes it harder for local seniors to get the care they need. It must be fixed. But under the original health care reform bill introduced in the House, this problem was not fixed. In fact, it was expanded. The same unfair, wasteful reimbursement policies would have been expanded from Medicare to the public insurance option and the local patients it would cover. What good is an insurance card if you can’t find a doctor who will treat you? That is why I have worked with Members of Congress from 16 states and the White House to improve the bill and get health reform that works for our state. I have pushed to get a fair deal and change the way health care is delivered to reward “value not volume” — value for the patient, not volume of tests or procedures. Working with my colleagues from Washington and other states, we secured a deal with House leadership to help bring fairness for Washington state and greater access to care for local seniors. The agreement calls to reform Medicare payments, reward high-quality, cost-efficient care and remedy geographic disparities that hurt access to care for local patients. Where are we now? Three House committees have passed their own versions of the health reform bill. Congressional leaders will combine these bills to decide on final legislation. A final vote is planned in September, and I will read the final bill carefully before I cast my vote. Congress is on the cusp of reforming health care to bring down costs, expand coverage and ban discrimination. Reforming health care will bring stability for working families. It will mean that my constituents will not have to worry about losing coverage or going bankrupt from medical bills they cannot afford. And as we head toward a final vote here in the House, I will keep working to ensure that health reform brings a fair deal for Washington state. }
08.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — Rep. Larsen is working to reform health care to bring down costs for families and businesses, expand coverage and ban discrimination based on age or gender, or on preexisting conditions such as diabetes or cancer. And he is working to ensure that health care reform brings a fair deal for Washington state. Rep. Larsen will focus on health care reform at the following community events: Whidbey Island League of Women Voters ForumThursday, August 6th6:00pm – 8:00pmCoupeville Recreation Center901 NW Alexander StreetCoupeville, WALarsen Hosts Health Care Town Hall in Mount VernonSaturday, August 8th2:00pm – 3:00pm Skagit County PUD 1415 Freeway Dr.Mount Vernon, WALarsen Hosts Health Care Town Hall in EverettWednesday, August 12th5:00pm – 6:00pmWeyerhaeuser Room, Everett Station 3201 Smith Ave.Everett, WA###
08.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on news that NOAA has selected Newport, Oregon instead of Bellingham as the new site for the Marine Operations Center-Pacific: “I had hoped for a different decision. I have long believed that Bellingham would offer the best new home for NOAA’s Marine Operations Center-Pacific. Our community, including the Port, City, our education partners, marine trades industry and local leaders made a true team effort to bring NOAA to Bellingham. I commend our community for their unity and cooperation in the competition for NOAA’s new home.” ###
07.29.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host five Conversations with Veterans during the month of August to update local veterans about his work in Congress on their behalf and to hear from local veterans about the issues important to them. This year, Larsen has worked to strengthen veterans’ health care and services, helping deliver a new community-based outpatient clinic to Northwest Washington. Serving on the House Armed Services Committee, Larsen helped pass the GI Bill for the 21st Century, historic legislation that takes effect in August to help veterans access higher education and job training. Larsen has also worked to increase pay for military personnel, ensure steady and predictable funding for VA health care and help soldiers returning from Iraq and Afghanistan transition to civilian life. At each of the Conversations with Veterans, Larsen will be joined by local experts on veterans’ health care, employment and benefits who will help answer questions and provide further information about the services available to the 75,000 veterans who call Northwest Washington home. Members of the public interested in attending the following events are asked to RSVP by emailing rsvp.larsen@mail.house.gov or calling Rep. Larsen’s Everett office at (425) 252-3188 or (800) 562-1385.Members of the media interested in attending the following events are asked to RSVP to Amanda Mahnke at (202) 225-2605 or amanda.mahnke@mail.house.gov. Bellingham Conversation with VeteransAugust 3rd, 2pm – 3:30pmAmerican Legion Post #71688 West Bakerview Road, BellinghamOak Harbor Conversation with VeteransAugust 6th, 10:30am – 12pmAmerican Legion Post #129 690 SE Barrington Drive, Oak HarborEverett Conversation with VeteransAugust 7th, 10:30 – 12pmEverett Community CollegeBaker Hall – Room 120, EverettSedro-Woolley Conversation with VeteransAugust 8th, 10:30 – 12pmAmerican Legion Post #43 701 Murdock Street, Sedro WoolleyFriday Harbor Conversation with VeteransAugust 10th, 11:30 – 12:30pmAmerican Legion Post #163 110 First Street, Friday Harbor ###
07.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced more than $1 million in recovery dollars for local police departments in Burlington, Everett and Snohomish, Washington. The funding is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and will help communities hire and retain cops during the economic downturn. “During these tight economic times, we cannot afford to shortchange local law enforcement as they work to keep us safe,” said Larsen. “Recovery dollars for COPS will make a real difference in our community.” Law enforcement agencies can use Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Recovery Program grants to hire and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort and to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. These grants provide 100 percent funding for approved entry-level salaries and benefits for three years for newly-hired, full-time sworn officer positions (including filling existing unfunded vacancies) or for rehired officers who have been laid off, or are scheduled to be laid off on a future date, as a result of local budget cuts. COPS grants announced today: In Skagit County, the Burlington Police Department will receive $287,018 to hire one officer for three years including salary and benefits.In Snohomish County, the Everett Police Department will receive $608,322 to hire two police officers over the next three years. This funding is strictly designated for salary and benefits. Specifically, the grant will fund a new school resource officer at Explorer Middle School and a gang education officer to provide community outreach and awareness throughout the Everett school district.Thanks to a $261,000 grant, the Snohomish Police Department will be able to keep its most recently hired officer on staff for the next three years. “For a city the size of Snohomish, this grant has a monumental impact on the stability of our city budget,” said Police Chief John Turner. ###
07.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured funding for a new behavioral health center at Skagit Valley Hospital in Mount Vernon and for emergency preparedness at St. Joseph's Hospital in Bellingham in a House funding bill for fiscal year 2010. In the 2nd District and across the country, the Labor, Health and Human Services (Labor-HHS) appropriations bill would invest in health care, heating and hunger assistance to help seniors and others hurt by the recession, and in education and job training to strengthen our economy for the long-term. The legislation passed the House and must also clear the Senate before it could be signed into law.“Public health and emergency preparedness are critical needs for our community,” said Larsen. “In addition to providing needed funding for hospitals in Skagit and Whatcom counties, the Labor HHS funding bill invests in health care and home heating and hunger assistance to help folks hurt by the recession, and in education and job training to build a foundation for long-term economic growth.” Earmarked funding for the 2nd District: $400,000 to complete construction and purchase equipment for a new Behavioral Health Center at Skagit Valley Hospital to serve the acute mental health needs of the Skagit County community. The current facility is not adequate to meet the local need for mental health care services and does not have the capacity to provide necessary treatment options. $300,000 to enhance emergency power, water and air supplies at St. Joseph's Hospital in Bellingham as well as to increase hospital security capabilities, to ensure the viability of the only major hospital in Whatcom County in the case of a disaster or mass casualty event. Other important provisions in the Labor-HHS funding bill: Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA): Provides $11.5 billion for IDEA (Special Education) to support a high quality education for 6.7 million students with disabilities. This builds on the $11.3 billion in the Recovery Act to support a record 25 percent federal contribution toward special education in each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010. Pell Grants: This bill maintains the discretionary portion of the maximum Pell Grant at $4,860, which, combined with a mandatory supplement of $690, will a support a $5,550 maximum Pell Grant in FY 2010. Since 2007, the maximum Pell Grant has been increased by $1,500 or 37 percent – from $4,050 to $5,550. In FY 2010, 7.6 million college students will receive Pell Grants. Dislocated Worker Employment and Training Activities: Provides $1.4 billion, $57 million above 2009, for training and supportive services for workers affected by mass layoffs and plant closures. More than 500,000 workers lost their jobs in the first three months of 2009 due to mass layoffs. These workers will also be assisted by $1.45 billion in the Recovery Act. Green Jobs: Provides $50 million to prepare workers for careers in energy efficiency and renewable energy. This new Administration initiative will support pre-apprenticeship programs, career pathways, and other gateways for more than 8,000 workers to enter careers in emerging green industries. The Recovery Act provided $500 million for green jobs. Veterans Employment and Training: Provides $265 million, $26 million above 2009, to maximize employment and training opportunities for veterans transitioning to the civilian workforce, and to protect their employment rights. This amount includes $8 million in the Education Department for a new Centers of Excellence for Veterans Success initiative to establish college and university-based support centers for veterans seeking to obtain a post-secondary education. Training to Meet Health Professions Workforce Shortages, Including Nursing: Provides $530 million, $137 million above 2009, to support the training of health professionals in areas where there are shortages. For example, the bill increases funding for the training of nurses by $92 million above 2009; this substantial increase is essential because the U.S. is in the midst of a nursing shortage that is expected to intensify as baby boomers age.LIHEAP: Provides $5.1 billion for LIHEAP (Low Income Home Energy Assistance) to ensure that approximately 7.5 million low-income households continue to receive the assistance they need. Head Start: Provides $7.2 billion, $122 million above 2009, to sustain high-quality, comprehensive early childhood services, including educational, health, nutritional, and social services, to approximately 978,000 low-income children before they enter school, nearly 70,000 over the FY 2008 level. Nutrition and Other Services for Seniors: Provides $1.5 billion for nutrition, transportation, and other supportive services for seniors. This funding will help provide nearly 239 million meals to 2.5 million seniors, an increase of about 3 million meals above 2009. ###
07.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today praised an agreement that brings Congress one step closer to passing health care reform that works for Washington state. The deal was reached between House leadership and a health care ‘quality coalition’ of Members of Congress including Larsen, other Washington Democrats and Representatives from sixteen other states who are working to fix long-standing Medicare reimbursement problems that have hurt access to health care for Washington seniors. The agreement calls for two studies which will reform Medicare payments to reward high-quality, cost-efficient care and remedy geographic disparities to help Washington state patients get the care they need. “Today we are one step closer to getting health care reform that works for Washington state,” said Larsen. “I thank my colleagues Rep. Jay Inslee and Norm Dicks for representing our state in negotiations with House leadership and for delivering a deal that helps bring fairness for Washington state and greater access to care for local seniors.”Under the current system, Washington state is penalized for providing higher-quality, lower-cost care. The average federal Medicare payment per patient in Everett, Washington is $6,905 a patient in McAllen, Texas averages $14,946. But while the quality of care in Everett is the same if not better compared to McAllen, medical providers there get paid more than twice as much, costing taxpayers more than twice as much and punishing Washington providers. This inequity makes Washington physicians less likely to accept patients on Medicare, making it more difficult for local seniors to find a doctor who will accept their insurance.Larsen has pushed to get a fair deal for Washington state and change the way health care is delivered to reward “value not volume” – value for the patient, not volume of tests or procedures. To that end, Larsen has sent letters to House leadership and communicated his concerns to the White House. “One hundred and four thousand of my constituents don’t have health insurance, and local families and businesses are struggling with the high cost of care,” said Larsen. “My constituents deserve health care reform that works for our state. That is why I am working to pass health care reform that expands access to care for local seniors and other patients. Our deal is an important step toward reaching that goal.”Below are the details of the deal. Paying for Value, Not Volume: The Institute of Medicine (IOM) will conduct a study and provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward “high-value” care, which is defined as the “efficient delivery of high quality, evidence-based, patient-centered care.” The study will be completed by September 2011. The IOM’s quality and value-based payment recommendations will automatically go into effect unless Congress objects within sixty days. The new value-based payment system will be implemented before the public plan goes into effect in 2013.What does this mean for Washington State? Washington state doctors and hospitals are already providing the kind of innovative, high quality care that this new payment system would recognize and reward. Paying for value, not volume, will finally reward Washington state doctors and hospitals for their efficient, high quality care. Addressing Geographic Disparity in Payment Rates: The Institute of Medicine (IOM) will conduct a study to evaluate the payment rates that Medicare uses to pay medical providers for office visits and medical procedures. The study will make recommendations to improve the base payment rates and fix geographic disparity in Medicare payments. The Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) is required to implement the new payment rates recommended by the IOM study. This means that they will go into effect without any political influence by Congress. Reforming Medicare payment rates is intended to reward low-cost, high-quality care and penalize high-cost, low quality care. The new payment rates will be implemented before the public plan goes into effect in 2013. The agreement invests $8 billion over two years to compensate areas that were penalized by the old payment rates. What does this mean for Washington State? Medicare payment rates currently penalize Washington state for its efficient, high quality care. Fixing this long-standing inequity would finally recognize and reward Washington state doctors and hospitals for their efficient care and could mean million of dollars in additional Medicare payments for Washington state doctors and hospitals. Higher Medicare reimbursements also mean that doctors and hospitals could be more likely to accept new Medicare patients. ###
07.27.2009	Washington, D.C. — Two hundred days before the Winter Olympics begin in Vancouver, B.C, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano on her first visit to Northwest Washington as DHS Secretary. Secretary Napolitano, Governor Chris Gregoire, Congressman Larsen and local leaders visited the 2010 Olympics Coordination Center in Bellingham and the Blaine border crossing as the region prepares to host the Olympic Games in Vancouver, B.C.“The 2010 Olympics will create jobs and be an economic engine for Washington state,” said Larsen, who co-chairs Governor Gregoire’s 2010 Olympics Task Force. “As we prepare for the Games and for our economic future after the Games, I thank Secretary Napolitano for visiting Northwest Washington to see first-hand the unique challenges and opportunities we face on our common border with Canada."“I look forward to working with Secretary Napolitano, Governor Gregoire, our congressional delegation and local stakeholders to ensure that the investments we have made to prepare for the Olympics leave the legacy of a more secure and efficient border for the long-term,” Larsen continued. Over $598 billion in goods crossed our Northern border in 2008 -- $2 million worth of goods every minute. Last year alone, Canadian tourists made 26 million visits to the United States, contributing $12 billion to the U.S. economy.“I appreciate Secretary Napolitano’s willingness to visit our state and see first-hand the improvements we've made to protect our communities,” Gov. Chris Gregoire said. “Washington, with the help and dedication of Representative Larsen, has been committed to ensuring our borders are protected while still allowing efficient travel for tourists and commerce. I am confident that Secretary Napolitano will take our ideas and successes and make them part of the national discussion on security issues.”Below are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “I want to start by welcoming Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to Northwest Washington. Secretary Napolitano, thank you for taking the time to be here today. I would also like to thank Governor Gregoire for her leadership on border issues. And I would like to acknowledge Whatcom County Executive Pete Kremen, Whatcom County Sheriff Bill Elfo, Bellingham Mayor Dan Pike, and Representative Kelli Linville who are here today. “Here in Northwest Washington, we don’t just live side-by-side with our friends in Canada, we live together. And we know that a secure and efficient border is essential to both economic prosperity and public safety. Jobs:“An efficient border with Canada creates good jobs. Over $598 billion in goods crossed our common border in 2008 – that’s $2 million of goods every minute. And Canadians made 26 million tourist visits to the United States last year, spending $12 billion to support local economies.“The port of Blaine is the 3rd busiest port of entry on our Northern Border, after Detroit and Buffalo. The high volume of commerce flowing through Blaine creates real jobs right here in our community – from customs brokers working just feet away from the 49th parallel to teachers at Blaine Middle School to nurses at St. Joe’s. All told, over 80,000 jobs in my Congressional district depend on trade with Canada.“Border communities are connected not just by commerce, but by deep personal bonds and relationships. Each day, American school children in Point Roberts, Washington, hop into buses for a ride to primary and secondary schools in Blaine. During the course of this 40 minute trip, these boys and girls cross into Canada, drive around Boundary Bay, and re-enter the United States before the first bell for homeroom.“This daily event could not occur without the outstanding cooperation and relationships that we have with our friends in Canada. Working together to create an efficient border is essential to maintaining these relationships and supporting good jobs.Security: “Our relationship with our friends in Canada does not eliminate the need for strong border security. In Washington state, providing border security isn’t about defending a line in the sand. Out here, border security means providing a layered defense to stem the flow of drugs, illegal immigrants, and terrorists that threaten the safety of our communities.“Our region has been a leader in border security. Washington State is the birthplace of Integrated Border Enforcement Teams, which draw on the expertise and intelligence of multiple U.S. and Canadian law enforcement agencies to crack down on common threats. IBETs are now a staple of our border security, operating from Blaine to Maine.“Our federal, state, and local law enforcement personnel, in cooperation with their Canadian counterparts, have penetrated the Wilderness of North Cascades and the maze of channels in the San Juans to crack down on harmful drug and weapons smuggling. “And our joint security relationship is getting stronger as the U.S. and Canada prepare for the 2010 Olympics. In the Olympics Coordination Center, which we just toured, Federal, State, and Local law enforcement officials will work together and with their Canadian counterparts to keep our region safe.“I would like to thank Senator Patty Murray for her leadership in securing $4.5 million to construct this facility and support training exercises.Legacy: “In just 200 days, the eyes of over 3 billion viewers worldwide will be on our region as the 2010 Olympics kick off with the opening ceremonies in Vancouver.“The 2010 Olympics will present challenges and opportunities for our region. We must cope with security threats and increased border traffic, and capitalize on the economic opportunities associated with this event.“I am confident that the 2010 Olympics will create a positive legacy for our region. Security cooperation during the Olympics will forge important relationships among many different security organizations in the United States, Washington state, and Whatcom County. And law enforcement officials in our region will end the games with an even deeper working relationship with their Canadian counterparts.“Tourism from the 2010 Olympics will create jobs and support tourism here in Washington state. By leaving a positive impression on the 250,000 in-person spectators and the 3 billion TV viewers who observe the Games, we can create an engine for future economic growth.“It is now my honor to introduce Governor Gregoire. Governor Gregoire’s leadership on border issues is second to none. Since elected, she has led the 2010 Olympics Task Force and led efforts in Washington state to prepare for the Games. Governor Gregoire took the lead on developing the Enhanced Drivers Licenses – the first in the country – to improve security and efficiency for travelers at the border. She has developed a strong cross-border relationship with BC Premier Campbell that has led to agreements on such issues as climate change, border security and cross-border transportation.” ###
07.24.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured funding for Skagit and Snohomish County transportation projects in a House funding bill. The funding passed the House as part of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill by a vote of 256 - 168 and must clear the Senate before being signed into law. “Investing in roads and transit creates jobs,” said Larsen, who requested funding for the Chuckanut Park and Ride and the 116th Street NE Interchange Improvements Project be included in the bill. “As the appropriations process moves forward, I will work with my colleagues in the Senate to deliver funding for these and other local projects to create jobs, improve public safety and meet local needs.” In the House funding bill, Larsen secured: $400,000 to construct the Chuckanut Park and Ride Facility in Burlington, which will offer an additional 350 parking spaces and provide connections to three regional transit providers. Currently all of Skagit Transit’s park and rides are being used to their maximum capacities and demand for more parking spaces is extremely high. $800,000 to make major improvements to the Interstate 5/ 116th Street NE interchange in Marysville to improve traffic flow, enhance driver safety and support increased economic development and growth in North Snohomish County. ###
07.22.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for a fiscal responsibility bill that requires Congress to offset spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. Under the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act 2009, any net costs of legislation enacted during a session of Congress must be offset with an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs. The legislation, also known as PAYGO or H.R. 2920, passed the House by a vote of 265 -166 and must clear the Senate before it could be signed into law. “Families have to balance their checkbooks and clearly Congress should follow the same rules,” said Larsen. “Reducing the deficit is a critical priority for our country’s economic future. PAYGO is not a cure-all, but it is a key step to finally restoring fiscal discipline and beginning to bring down the deficit.” Today’s bill is similar to legislation passed in the 1990s which helped turn the deficits accumulated in the two previous presidencies into record surpluses. The last Administration and Congress waived PAYGO and ultimately allowed it to expire in 2002. In 2007, Congress made PAYGO a part of House rules and is now working with President Obama to give it the force of law. ###
07.21.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) returned Monday night from a congressional fact-finding trip to U.S. military facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Due to House Armed Services Committee security protocol, Larsen was unable to notify the public in advance of his trip. Photos from the trip will be available on request.“During my visit to the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, I visited the detention facilities where suspected terrorists are held. In my opinion, these facilities are well-maintained and staffed by highly professional service men and women. These facilities are also visited regularly by international humanitarian organizations,” said Larsen. “I thank our service men and women stationed at Guantanamo Bay for their service to our country.” Larsen’s visit to Guantanamo Bay took place as the House and Senate Armed Services Committee consider changes to the Military Commissions Act of 2006, which was passed by Congress after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the President did not have the executive authority to establish military commissions without congressional approval. The Military Commissions Act has not withstood judicial scrutiny. The Supreme Court has ruled portions of it unconstitutional, and it imposes restrictions on military attorneys that make credible convictions virtually impossible. While the Military Commissions Act has been on the book for three years it has only achieved three convictions.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am committed to reforming the Military Commissions Act so the President has a viable option to prosecute, under the laws of war, terrorist detainees and thereby deliver justice for the American people,” Larsen continued. Larsen opposed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 and is working with House Armed Services Committee colleagues to enact needed reforms. Larsen supports reforms to: Prohibit the use of statements obtained under cruel, inhumane or degrading conditions; Streamline the handling of classified evidence to expedite the resolution of trials; And restrict the use of unreliable hearsay evidence. “I remain committed to closing the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay and bringing terrorists detained there to justice,” Larsen concluded. “The detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base have become a lightning rod and a symbol, rightly or wrongly, of our errors in the fight against terrorists. As long as they remain open, these detention facilities will undermine our strategic efforts to win hearts and minds among moderate Muslims around the world.” ###
07.15.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on news that U.S. Senator Patty Murray has secured an additional $7.6 million for Washington state ferry docks and terminals following yesterday’s bizarre announcement from the U.S. Department of Transportation awarding Washington State Ferries one-tenth of one percent of ferry recovery funding: “I thank Senator Murray for her leadership once again in delivering for Washington state and my district – in particular for the thousands of 2nd District residents who depend on ferries for transportation in their daily lives. “I was shocked and disappointed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT)’s decisions announced yesterday which showed a total lack of regard for Washington state residents who depend on the largest ferry system in the country to keep our economy moving.“I thank Secretary LaHood for recognizing the importance of the Guemes Island Ferry project in Skagit County. Yet the $750,000 for this county-based system represents .012% of the total amount of money in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act’s ferry program. The Washington State Ferry system serves over 23 million riders per year and nearly 11 million vehicles per year, 42% and 77% of nationwide totals, respectively. The math just doesn’t add up. “The decision announced yesterday borders on deliberate neglect. I am pleased that Senator Murray’s efforts on our state’s behalf have remedied the problem in the short-term, but we need long-term solutions as well. I demand a full explanation of how this bizarre decision came to be made in the first place. If they fail to remedy the process that allowed this incredible oversight, there will be future problems for Washington state and our country.” ###
07.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — As Congress works to reform health care to bring down costs and ensure, quality affordable health care, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) is working to get a fair deal for Washington state. Specifically, Larsen is pushing to protect access to health care for Washington state patients by ensuring that Washington state is rewarded, not penalized, for providing high-quality, low-cost patient care. “Lower Medicare payment rates mean fewer providers in Washington state, and fewer providers mean less access to care for local seniors and other patients,” said Larsen. “Washington state should be rewarded, not penalized, for providing quality, efficient care. That is why I’m working to get a fair deal for our state and make it easier for local seniors and other patients to see a doctor when they need to.” Larsen is pushing for stronger reforms to help Washington state by changing the way health care is delivered to reward “value not volume” – value for the patient, not volume of tests or procedures. To that end, Larsen has sent a bipartisan letter to House leadership along with 27 of his House colleagues led by Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-04) urging action to fix Medicare geographic disparities in reimbursement. Washington state is one of several states in which the quality of care exceeds the national average and Medicare costs per patient are substantially lower than the national average. For example, the average federal Medicare payment per patient in Everett, Washington is $6,905 while McAllen, Texas averages $14,946. Studies have shown that increased spending per patient has no correlation with quality of care. While the quality of care in Everett is the same if not better compared to McAllen, medical providers there get paid more than twice as much, costing taxpayers more than twice as much. So while Washington state provides higher-quality, lower-cost care in many cases and delivers better results for patients, Washington state is penalized by the current Medicare reimbursement formula. Larsen has joined a number of his colleagues to request a meeting with House leadership to restore fairness for Washington and other states before the bill comes up for a House vote. Democratic leaders have agreed to meet with Larsen and his colleagues, but a date has yet to be set. ###
07.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Monday, July 13th, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host a telephone town hall to hear his constituents’ thoughts on health care as Congress makes reforming health care a top priority this summer. “Health care reform must bring down costs for Washington state families and businesses, preserve patient choice, protect consumers from discrimination because of pre-existing conditions, reward quality, efficient care and ensure a fair deal for Washington state,” said Larsen. “I invite my constituents to join my Telephone Town Hall to share their thoughts on reforming health care. I want to bring local ideas to Congress and ensure that health care reform works for our state.”Congress will be in session tonight, and Larsen will be hosting the call from his office in Washington, D.C. To update constituents on his work on this issue, a number of constituents (approximately 1,900) who have contacted Congressman Larsen’s office regarding health care will be called directly and invited to join the Town Hall. Other constituents are also invited to join by calling the toll-free number below. Congressman Larsen also invites his constituents to share their thoughts on reforming health care on his website at https://www.house.gov/larsenReporters are welcome to listen to the call. Due to the large number of constituents expected to participate, we ask that press not ask questions on the call. If you are a reporter planning to listen in, please RSVP to Amanda.mahnke@mail.house.gov. Toll-free call-in number for constituents and press: 1-877-269-7289, Code 13740What: Telephone Town Hall with U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02)When: Monday, July 13th 6:40 PM Pacific Time / 9:40 PM Eastern TimeCall-in: 1-877-269-7289Code: 13740###
07.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured federal funding for Naval Station Everett as part of legislation to strengthen health care services for veterans, strengthen our national security and invest in military barracks and other construction projects that improve service members’ quality of life. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 415 - 3 and must also clear the Senate before it could be signed into law. The Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill includes $3.81 million secured by Larsen to construct a small boat launch at Naval Station Everett. Currently, Navy and Coast Guard personnel must tow the boats to a public marina when they need to launch them for security reasons or to respond to an environmental spill. This wastes time and fuel and hurts fleet readiness.“Naval Station Everett is a vital asset to our community and local economy, and I am committed to supporting the base and the men and women who serve there,” said Larsen, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. With passage of this fiscal year 2010 funding bill, Congress will have increased veterans health care and benefits funding by 58 percent in the past two and a half years – an unprecedented investment. The legislation provides funding to strengthen health care for more than six million veterans including 419,000 veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The funding bill also provides advance funds for veterans health services in 2011. The VA has only received its budget on-time in three of the last twenty years. Providing the 2011 budget in advance will allow the VA to plan and use their resources more effectively to help ensure high-quality, consistent care for our nation’s veterans. “Last week, I joined local veterans and Sen. Patty Murray to celebrate the grand opening of Northwest Washington’s new veterans’ clinic which will bring veterans heath care closer to local veterans,” Larsen continued. “Our new veterans community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) is an important milestone. Our ongoing commitment to veterans doesn’t stop with the opening of the CBOC – we must ensure that service members and veterans get the health care, educational benefits and retirement pay they need and deserve.” To support our troops, the funding bill provides resources to construct key facilities for training and housing, addressing the unfunded backlog of barracks for young men and women entering the service. It takes additional steps to support the military families who give so much in service to this country – with military child care centers, military family housing, and additional Vets Centers, like the one that opened in Everett in 2007, which provide community-based readjustment counseling for veterans and their families. ###
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed an agriculture appropriations bill that invests in 2nd District farms and provides funding secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to help Washington state agriculture succeed and create jobs. The legislation (HR 2997) cleared the House by a vote of 266 to 160 and must also pass the Senate before it could be signed into law. “In Washington state, agriculture is a proud part of our heritage and a critical part of our economy,” said Larsen. “Local farms create jobs, feed families and contribute $726 million to our economy in the 2nd District each year. Investing in Washington state ag helps local producers compete with farms down the road and around the world and helps make our economy stronger for the future.” “Washington raspberry growers receive support for research projects that are fundamental to our global competiveness through the NW Small Fruit Center,” Henry Bierlink, Executive Director of the Lynden-based WA Red Raspberry Commission. “We are very appreciative of Rep. Larsen’s continued strong support.”To fight hunger and help low-income women, children and senior citizens faced with rising food costs and shrinking wages, the legislation increases nutrition aid to families. It expands the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program to support an additional 700,000 low-income pregnant women and recent mothers, and creates new initiatives to help ensure that American families can put food on the table during the recession. The legislation includes the following funding secured by Larsen: Agriculture Research Service (ARS) Facility in PullmanP.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA $3.7 million for a United States Department of Agriculture-Agriculture Research Services (ARS) facility located in Pullman, WA to provide ARS scientists with state-of-the-art research facilities. A new USDA-ARS facility, fully integrated with the Washington State University Life Science/Biotechnology complex, will provide modern laboratories and equipment to conduct agriculture research to keep Northwest growers competitive in the global market. Agriculture is a top employer in Washington state. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Organic CroppingWashington State UniversityP.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA$248,000 for research into priorities identified by Northwest organic farmers including developing wheat varieties for organic systems, seed treatments for organic vegetable production, and studying economic trends in organic production. Several of these projects have the potential to advance sustainable agriculture on a national scale. There are nearly 700 certified organic farms in Washington state. Washington state is second in the nation in “farmgate” sales of organic products directly from the producer with $159.8 million sold. Pacific Northwest Small Fruit CenterWashington State UniversityP.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA$307,000 for research into plant breeding, pest management, genetic research, and processing methods for small fruits. The Center helps Northwest farmers integrate scientific research into their farming and processing. Research done by the Center is focused on profitable and environmentally-responsible farming and production practices. Washington state leads the country in raspberry production and is a leading producer of other berries and grapes as well. In 2007, Washington raised 55 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $27.9 million.Protecting the Pacific Northwest Grape and Wine Industry from Plant VirusesWashington State UniversityP.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA$223,000 to combat the presence or spread of devastating plant viruses affecting the grape and wine industry. The Washington state wine, grape and grape juice industries provide approximately 19,000 jobs and contribute $ 3 billion annually to the state’s economy. Washington is the largest producer of juice grapes and the second largest producer of premium wine grapes in the United States. Around 900 Pacific Northwest wineries depend upon the production of quality wine grapes. This project would help to ensure that planting materials entering the Northwest are virus-free, that our vineyards remain virus-free, and that we prolong the longevity of the industry. Potato Breeding Lines for Biotic and Abiotic YieldAgriculture Research Service 24106 N Bunn Rd Prosser, WA$61,000 for ongoing research at the Agriculture Research Service facility in Prosser to develop and evaluate new varieties of potatoes with special attention to disease, pest, and stress resistance, as well as yield and quality characteristics. This funding supports cooperative research with Washington State University, Oregon State University, and the University of Idaho to evaluate the genetics of seeds provided to farmers to help them plant potato crops that will succeed in their unique soil and weather conditions. (Biotic refers to living stressors, such as fungi or insects, while abiotic refers to non-living stressors, such as intense sunlight, wind or flooding) Research done in this program has a direct impact on growers throughout the region, and provides for the profitable and sustainable production of potatoes. Washington state is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all domestic potatoes. The potato industry in Washington state directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion annually and creates over 20,000 jobs. Potato ResearchWashington State UniversityP.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA$1 million for research to develop and commercialize new potato varieties that benefit all segments of the Northwest potato industry. These funds are critical for sustaining the potato industry and providing a healthy, inexpensive food supply for American consumers. New potato varieties help improve quality, bring increased yield, and require less fertilizer and pesticide, increasing profitability and lessening environmental impact. Washington is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all U.S. potatoes. The potato industry directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion throughout the Washington economy annually and creates over 20,000 jobs in the state. Washington Agricultural CompetitivenessWashington State University P.O. Box 643140Pullman, WA$469,000 million to identify and expand international trade opportunities and domestic marketing opportunities for Washington state agricultural products. Washington state's $42 billion food and agriculture industry employs 160,000 people and contributes 13% percent to the state's economy. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Exporting Washington agricultural goods to foreign nations and marketing our products in new domestic markets will support this important industry and create new jobs across the state.###
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — The House Natural Resources Committee held a hearing on legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. The legislation will protect the free-flowing character of Illabot Creek, an important habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, while maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing. Murray and Larsen’s legislation has broad local support from elected officials, conservationists, fishermen, agriculture, and other stakeholders.“A Wild and Scenic designation for Illabot Creek will protect this critical habitat for salmon, eagles and other species while preserving fishing, hunting and recreational opportunities for future generations,” said Larsen. “Our legislation has strong support in Skagit County and I look forward to working with Senator Murray, my partner on this issue in the Senate, to make Illabot Creek ‘Wild and Scenic’.“I applaud Representative Larsen’s work to move Illabot Creek protection another step forward in Congress, he’s been a great partner to work with on this and so many issues,” said Senator Murray. “Preserving Illabot Creek means protecting stream flows and water quality - resources that are vitally important to the many fish and wildlife that depend on the creek. For years, volunteers have dedicated their time to protect this delicate habitat. I’m proud to be a federal partner in this effort to ensure this pristine creek is protected for generations to come.”“Amending the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to include Illabot Creek, a tributary of the Skagit River, complements the significant investments that have been made at the local level to protect this special area in addition to the salmon and trout recovery efforts within the Skagit basin,” said Lisa Bellefond of the Nature Conservancy of Washington in her testimony before the House Natural Resources Committee. “This designation would protect water flows and help to ensure that Illabot Creek continues to be a source of cold, clean water to Puget Sound and provide habitat for Steelhead and Bull trout.”Larsen’s written testimony to the Committee follows: “Chairman Grijalva and Ranking Member Bishop, I would like to thank you for holding today’s hearing on HR 1593, legislation which would designate 14.3 miles of Illabot Creek in Skagit County in my district as part of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.“Illabot Creek tumbles nearly 7,000 vertical feet from its headwaters in the Glacier Peak Wilderness Area to join the upper Skagit River. The creek’s waters are cold and clean, providing important habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, and bull trout. “HR 1593 will protect the free-flowing character of Illabot Creek while maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing. “The legislation before the committee today is the result of a collaborative process involving many local stakeholders. I have received letters of support from local elected officials, environmentalists, fishermen, agriculture, and other community groups. “I would like to thank my partner in this effort, U.S. Senator Patty Murray, for introducing companion legislation in the Senate. Working together, I hope we can protect this critical habitat for salmon, eagles and other species while preserving fishing, hunting and recreational opportunities for generations to come.“Thank you again for holding this hearing on HR 1593, and for the opportunity to provide this testimony.” ###
07.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on today’s announcement from Boeing that the company will purchase a South Carolina facility from Vought Aircraft Industries Inc.: “I hope that today’s announcement is a step toward solving Boeing’s global supply chain problems that have plagued the 787 program. We need the 787 program to succeed to keep good-paying jobs here in Snohomish County. “I stand ready to help Boeing, the union, local leaders and any and all stakeholders as we work together to keep these jobs here in our community. “Washington state’s aerospace workers are the best in the world, and we have the infrastructure and workforce ready, willing and able to make the 787 a reality.” ###
07.02.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and local veterans in Mount Vernon to celebrate the new, permanent clinic that will bring veterans health care and services closer to veterans in the 2nd District. Local veterans and community members crowded the room and spilled out into the hall of the new veterans’ clinic at the celebration in Mount Vernon today. “Northwest Washington veterans have had to travel too far, for too long, to the get health care and services they need and deserve. This veterans’ clinic will bring veterans’ health care closer to veterans in Northwest Washington.” said U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02). “Today is about you: all the local veterans who worked so hard to make this veterans’ clinic a reality.” “Veterans in Northwest Washington have fought for our nation's freedom, they shouldn't have to fight for access to the care they deserve here at home,” Senator Murray said. “This is a big win for all of the veterans in Northwest Washington who have sat in endless traffic, searched for transportation, or sacrificed their health because they have had to travel down I-5 to Seattle to get even the most basic care.”The new, permanent community–based outpatient clinic (CBOC) , located near Skagit Valley Hospital at 307 South 13th Street in Mount Vernon, will bring health care closer to home for Skagit, North Snohomish, Whatcom, Island and San Juan county veterans. For a number of years, Larsen and Murray have worked with local veterans, pushing the VA to open a clinic to provide health care for Northwest Washington veterans. In 2002, Larsen introduced legislation (H.R.5087) to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to implement a two-year pilot project for outpatient medical care in Northwest Washington. In the years that followed, Murray and Larsen pressed the VA in meetings, hearings, letters and legislation to open a clinic to serve veterans in the 2nd District. In 2007, Murray and Larsen praised the VA's announcement in of plans to open a community-based outpatient clinic in the Mount Vernon area. In February 2008, the VA opened a temporary mobile clinic at Skagit Valley Hospital to provide primary and mental health services to some veterans enrolled in the VA system. In May 2008, this temporary clinic moved to a larger facility on the campus of United General Hospital in Sedro-Woolley to offer expanded services to a larger number of veterans. In addition to offering primary care services, the new, permanent clinic will provide mental health, social work, pharmacy, eye, ear, x-ray and dental care. According to VA estimates, the permanent clinic could eventually serve more than 6,500 veterans.Below are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you for that introduction. Thanks to Dr. Susan Pendergrass, and thank you to Senator Murray who has been a great leader working for our local veterans in Congress. I would also like to recognize Mayor Bud Norris and Greg Davidson, the CEO of Skagit Valley Hospital. “Exactly one year ago today, I stood here with Senator Murray and many of you to celebrate the announcement of this clinic’s permanent site here in Mount Vernon. That was an exciting day for all of us, but what a difference a year makes! “This building was just a shell a year ago. Now it’s a state-of-the art medical facility for Northwest Washington’s veterans. This clinic will, at long last, bring veterans health care closer to veterans in Northwest Washington. This clinic will provide 6,500 local veterans with primary care and mental health care as well as specialty services such as vision, hearing, and dental care. “This clinic exists today because of the hard work of local veterans. You made this vision a reality. I would like to recognize a few veterans in particular – Bill Schrier, Jim Pace, George LaPold, and Dave Michel. Thank you for your work and your leadership. “Over the last nine years, you made the case to the VA that Northwest Washington needed a clinic. “At each turn of the road, we told the same story: Northwest Washington is home to a large number of veterans For too long, these veterans had to travel too far for their health care – two hours or more each way just to see their doctor. And for many disabled veterans unable to drive themselves, getting to and from the VA hospital in Seattle was full-day struggle, or worse. The opening of this clinic will solve many of these problems and finally bring veterans healthcare closer to veterans in our area. “The opening of this clinic, however, will not solve all of the challenges facing veterans here in Northwest Washington, much less the challenges that all veterans face across our country.“Meeting the needs of returning veterans: “This summer, a new GI Bill for the 21st Century will go into effect, restoring the promise of a full, four-year college education for many veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. As of May 1st, veterans can apply for a certificate of eligibility for the new education benefits, and new GI bill benefits will be available starting in August. “The new GI Bill for the 21st Century provides up to four years of education benefits at a college or university for service members who have been honorably discharged with at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001. Importantly, the bill extends the time available for veterans to use their GI Bill benefits from 10 to 15 years, giving veterans more time to get the education and training they need when they need it.“Expanding Concurrent Receipt: “For too long, disabled military retirees have been denied the full retirement and disability pay they have earned. President Obama proposed expanding concurrent receipt in his Fiscal Year 2010 budget proposal, and just last week, the House of Representatives passed legislation that would expand concurrent receipt to eligible veterans who were forced to retire due to their disability. “House passage of the Disabled Military Retiree Relief Act is a positive step forward, and we will continue working to get our disabled retirees the benefits they have earned. “Recognizing the sacrifices of service members: “And we also need to recognize the service and sacrifice of our current service members. President Obama just signed a law that will award a bonus to every service member who was held under “stop-loss” orders due to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Although we can never repay the debt we owe our service members and veterans, this bonus will help recognize the additional sacrifices made by the men and women held past their term of duty involuntarily. “I want to conclude by thanking again, everyone involved in bringing this clinic to Northwest Washington. Senator Murray; the VA; and most importantly, the local veterans who led this effort; thanks to all of you for your tireless efforts.” ###
06.30.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen today applauded more than $14 million in recovery funding for salmon recovery, pollution reduction and habitat restoration through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), part of the United States Department of Commerce. “Your recovery dollars are creating jobs, reducing pollution and restoring habitat to protect Washington state for the next generation,” said Larsen. “This funding will support local, community efforts like the Northwest Straits Initiative and create jobs from Marysville to Burlington to Bellingham.” “These recovery projects will help keep our environment clean and our economy moving," said Senator Patty Murray. "Restoring and protecting our waterways is a priority for Washington state, and I am excited that these projects are receiving federal support.” Today the Department of Commerce announced the following funding for Northwest Washington: $4.6 Million for the Northwest Straits Initiative for the Removal of Derelict Fishing Gear in Puget Sound: According to the Northwest Straits Initiative, the project will create 40 living-wage jobs, restore 645 acres of marine habitat and be completed in 18 months. Since 2002, the Northwest Straits Initiative has removed over 1200 derelict fishing nets, restoring more than 240 acres of marine habitat, and saving millions of animals from incidental death each year. $1.7 million for Smuggler’s Slough Nooksack River Restoration in Bellingham: According to the Department of Commerce, the funding will help the Lummi Nation raise a roadway and reconnect tidal exchange for 493 acres of Smuggler’s Slough channel that will flow to restored salt marsh and eelgrass habitat in Lummi Bay. Seven miles of slough habitat will also be opened as a result of this project. $2 million for Qwuloolt Estuary Restoration in Marysville: According to the Department of Commerce, the funding will help restore 350 acres of wetland and 16 stream miles to fish passage for several species of salmon on the lower Snohomish River and its surrounding tidal floodplain by removing levees, excavating channels and planting native vegetation and trees. $5.2 million for Fisher Slough Marsh Restoration in Burlington: According to the Department of Commerce, the funding will help the Nature Conservancy restore 60 acres of the Skagit River floodplain by replacing antiquated agriculture floodgates and restoring 15 miles of high quality habitat for chum, coho, threatened Chinook salmon and other important species. $988,000 for Hansen Creek Floodplain Restoration in Skagit County: According to the Department of Commerce, the funding will be used to excavate and reconnect 140 acres of forested floodplain habitat and install woody debris for chum, coho, threatened Chinook salmon, and other important species. ###
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today announcing his support for the American Clean Energy and Security Act (HR 2454) which is scheduled for a vote in the House of Representatives later today: “For me, this issue boils down to three words: Washington state jobs. “The American Clean Energy and Security Act is really a clean energy economic engine that will harvest American innovation to create millions of new jobs in the private sector, including family-wage manufacturing jobs that can’t be shipped overseas, jobs building wind turbines and installing appliances to make homes more energy efficient, and jobs turning ag and forest products into clean, renewable energy. “Second, this clean energy jobs bill will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, reduce pollution and strengthen our national security. “This bill will create jobs, make our local economy stronger and protect Washington state for the next generation. “I have worked to ensure that we get the best possible clean energy jobs bill for Washington state and the 2nd Congressional District. That means a bill that works for local families worried about the high cost of paying their heating bills and filling up the gas tank; a bill that works for workers at Ferndale’s Intalco plant; a bill that works for Boeing workers and contractors; a bill that works for local farmers; and a bill that works for the nearly 2,500 workers at Northwest Washington’s four refineries. “During the past year, I have reached out to local clean energy companies, utilities, farmers, conservationists, local governments and small businesses, and they have all told me that comprehensive energy reform must take into account the unique attributes of the Pacific Northwest – our use of hydropower, our family farms, our energy-intensive industries and the family-wage jobs they support, and our long-standing commitment to renewable energy. “Since Congress began crafting comprehensive energy reform, we have made great progress for the 2nd District, Washington state and the Pacific Northwest. I brought local concerns to Washington, D.C. and delivered them to congressional leaders including Energy and Commerce Chairman Henry Waxman and Rep. Gene Green of Texas. Here are some of the local issues I have worked on in this bill. Most of them boil down to one word: jobs: Jobs at Refineries: Local refineries in my district employ nearly 2,500 workers and contractors. Whatcom and Skagit Counties alone depend on over $200 million in wages from refineries each year. I am pleased that the American Clean Energy and Security Act provides two percent of allowances for refiners (an improvement over the zero percent we started with) and removes the unworkable low-carbon fuel standard to help protect these good-paying jobs in our community. Jobs at Intalco: I support a provision (the Inslee-Doyle provision) to help protect jobs at Alcoa’s Ferndale smelter and other energy-industries from being shipped overseas by giving them the emissions allowances they need to continue doing business here in the Unites States. Bonneville Power Administration: In the Pacific Northwest, hydropower is the original clean, renewable energy. I have worked hard to ensure that my constituents’ pocketbooks are protected in this legislation, and that Washington state is rewarded, not punished, for its long-standing use of zero-carbon electricity. I am pleased that some emissions allowances will be awarded to utilities based on how many households are served, a provision that is beneficial for our area. However, I do have concerns about the so-called “anti-windfall provision” that could have unintended consequences for utilities in the Northwest. I will work with my colleagues in the Senate to make sure the final bill includes the protections we need to help keep energy prices low for local families. Using Washington resources for clean energy: The Pacific Northwest has an abundance of woody biomass – the trees and woody plants that are the by-products of forest management – that can be used to produce clean, renewable energy. This bill will allow the use of woody biomass for this purpose, giving the Northwest a leg up in this valuable production of energy, creating jobs and providing the Forest Service with the tools it needs for proper wildfire management. Opportunities for local farmers: After much work over the last two weeks, this bill now rewards innovation on our local farms and opens the door for Northwest Washington farmers to make money from their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.Aviation: In Washington state, aviation plays a huge role in our local economy. I worked to remove a provision in the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would have burdened the aviation industry with unnecessary regulation that could have hurt their business and the local jobs that depend on it. Renewable energy efficiency standard: The legislation ensures that Washington state’s renewable energy standard (I-937, which was passed by the voters of Washington state) is protected and not overruled by the proposed federal standard. Good Wages for Labor: I am also pleased that this bill helps ensure that workers are paid a fair wage for their work by complying with Davis-Bacon rules for prevailing wages.###
06.25.2009	Washington, D.C. — House Armed Services Committee Member Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today for the Defense Authorization Bill which provides a military pay raise, supports military families and troops in the field and makes responsible investments in our national defense to keep us safe. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 389 – 22 -1 and must also clear the Senate before it could be signed into law.“As Secretary Gates has said, we cannot buy everything and do everything,” said Larsen. “This bill makes the investments we need to protect our nation and our troops in the field, while canceling wasteful programs that are behind schedule, over-budget, and unnecessary for our national defense.” The Defense Authorization Act: Provides a 3.4 percent pay raise for all service members to improve the quality of life for our forces and their families Helps restore military readiness with strong investments in our Armed Services Focuses on Afghanistan and on the redeployment from Iraq Eliminates waste and recovers savings through defense acquisition reform Kirk- Larsen Duration amendment The legislation included a bipartisan amendment introduced by Larsen and his colleague Rep. Mark Kirk of Illinois that would give the Secretary of Defense the authority to award a bonus on top of other pay and benefits for servicemen and women who agree to serve in Afghanistan until the U.S. mission is declared complete, to a maximum of six years. While nearly all American service members serve for no longer than 12 months at a time, our military would benefit from retaining critical military, language and relationship experience needed to sustain momentum in Afghanistan.“Few service members will accept this offer, but the few who do will provide critical military, language and on-the-ground experience to help us succeed in Afghanistan,” said Larsen. “This amendment is about rewarding exceptional commitment and exceptional service to our country. It is about investing in success.” Larsen Electronic Warfare amendment The legislation also includes an amendment, authored by Larsen, which requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to submit an annual report outlining its electronic warfare (EW) strategy and report to Congress on the EW capabilities are being used to achieve that strategy and how the military is providing leadership on EW issues. “As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I first became involved in this critical part of our national defense because Naval Air Station Whidbey Island in my district is a leader in electronic warfare. Our Prowlers and Growlers, airborne electronic attack aircraft based on Whidbey Island, protect airborne assets and support our troops on the ground. Across the Armed Services, NAS Whidbey Island is the brain trust for electronic warfare expertise.” Electronic Warfare describes our military’s use of radio frequencies to deploy weapons and protect our troops, and to deny our enemies the use of radio frequencies to attack us. Weapons that depend on radio frequencies range from the simple to the sophisticated. They include air defense radars which help enemies identify and destroy U.S. planes, and improvised explosive devises (IEDs) which have caused significant U.S. casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan.“Electronic warfare plays a more important role than ever in keeping the men and women in our military safe,” Larsen continued. “That is why the Department of Defense needs a comprehensive and unified strategy across the Armed Services to control the electromagnetic spectrum, and Congress needs to know what that strategy is.” ###
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after he heard testimony from Christina Romer, Chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) at a House Budget Committee hearing. The CEA released a report earlier this month entitled "The Economic Case for Health Care Reform," explaining why reforming health care is critical for the future of the American economy. “Ms. Romer delivered powerful testimony today regarding the need to reform health care in order to strengthen our economy for the long-term. Most important was Ms. Romer’s testimony that reforming health care can increase families’ incomes and decrease the deficit. “For a typical family of four, health care reform could put $2,600 more in their pockets by 2020 (in 2009 dollars), and nearly $10,000 more in their pockets by 2030. “Moreover, health care reform could have a positive and far-reaching impact on our economy, from reducing the deficit, to improving our standard of living, to strengthening the labor market.“In short, health care reform is about families’ pocketbooks, decreasing the deficit and building a stronger economic future.” A link to the full report follows: https://www.whitehouse.gov/assets/documents/CEA_Health_Care_Report.pdf###
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Monday, June 22, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host transportation roundtables in Everett and Mount Vernon to hear from 2nd District stakeholders and transportation leaders as the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee moves forward with writing the next major surface transportation bill, which will shape federal policy and invest in local transportation needs for the next six years. Larsen serves on the Highways and Transit Subcommittee which is responsible for writing the bill. This week, Transportation and Infrastructure chairman Rep. Jim Oberstar (MN-08) released a blueprint for the legislation which the Highways and Transit Subcommittee will mark up on Wednesday, April 24. Chairman Oberstar’s blueprint includes: $450 billion for the nation’s roads, highways, bridges $50 billion for high speed rail Investments to create or sustain approximately six million jobs over the next six years “Transportation investments create jobs and economic opportunity,” said Larsen. “During the past year, I have met with local leaders from across the 2nd District to get ready to write this major transportation bill, invest in our roads, bridges, transit, and create jobs. “Now it’s go time,” Larsen continued. “Chairman Oberstar’s blueprint was released this week, and I will be working hard to make sure we get the best possible bill for the 2nd District and Washington state.” Larsen to Host a Transportation Roundtable in Mount Vernon10:45 – 11:45 AMSkagit Station105 E. Kincaid Street, Mount VernonLarsen to Host a Transportation Roundtable in Everett1:30 – 2:30 PM 8th Floor Hearing Room2930 Wetmore, Everett###
06.19.2009	Washington, D.C. — Last night the U.S. House of Representatives passed funding for Northwest Washington law enforcement and drug prevention as part of the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2010. U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) secured funding for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative, the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force and the Whatcom County Rapid Border Prosecution Initiative as part of the legislation. The funding passed the House by a vote of 259 - 157 and must clear the Senate before it could be signed into law.“From Blaine to Snohomish, law enforcement officers work every day to keep our communities safe and drug-free,” said Larsen. “We cannot afford to shortchange their work. It is one of my top goals to support local law enforcement and help our communities improve public safety. As the appropriations process moves forward, I look forward to working with my Washington State colleagues Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell to deliver the resources our communities need to effectively fight drugs and crime.” The bill also includes language requiring the Department of Commerce to report back to Congress in 45 days regarding the Department’s efforts to promote the exports of small-and-medium-sized businesses in the United States to China. This follows legislation that Congressman Larsen has introduced, HR 2310, The US-China Market Engagement and Export Promotion Act, which expands programs within the Commerce Department and the Small Business Administration to help small-and-businesses to sell their goods in China and create jobs here in the United States.The Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations bill provides the following funding: Overall, provides $3.4 billion for state and local law enforcement and crime prevention grants to keep our communities safe. Provides $802 million for the COPS (Community Oriented Policing Services) program, including $298 million for COPS Hiring Grants. When combined with the $1 billion provided in the Recovery Act for COPS Hiring Grants, this will enable the hiring of more than 7,000 police officers across the country. Provides $529 million for the Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program. These grants are used by local law enforcement agencies for a broad range of activities to better fight and prevent crime. Larsen secured the following appropriations:Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative The legislation includes $1.5 million to continue a statewide, multi-disciplinary effort including law enforcement, specialized drug treatment and prevention components, and professional training to combat methamphetamine use in Washington state. Specific program efforts include proactive methamphetamine lab investigations, treatment programs designed to address methamphetamine where it impacts families, and the mobilization of Meth Action Teams (MATs) to undertake local education and prevention efforts. “Thanks to recent Congressional allocations, the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative (WSMI) has made great strides in abating the scourge of methamphetamine across the state through proactive enforcement and innovate treatment, prevention and community-based efforts,” said Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative Terree Schmidt-Whelan. “The Initiative effected an almost 90% reduction in illicit meth labs and dump sites over the last decade and attained an 80% success rate in helping meth-dependent parents to recovery and reunification with their children. Methamphetamine Action Teams (MATs) organized by the Initiative now serve every county, getting local communities to team with governmental resources to combat the meth problem at the grassroots level. Because of these very notable successes, WSMI has become a national model endorsed by the Department of Justice.” “When it comes to confronting the meth epidemic, Washington State is a national leader due in no small part to the work of the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative and their community partners,” said Larsen, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. “A three-pronged strategy is needed to fight the meth epidemic: prevent drug abuse through education, invest in treatment to strengthen our community and save money in the long-term, and support law enforcement as they work to keep us safe.”Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force The legislation includes a Larsen earmark of $70,000 to provide Snohomish County law enforcement officers with concealed cameras and vehicle trackers, critical tools to conduct drug trafficking investigations. The cameras allow for covert surveillance of drug trafficking organizations where more conventional methods have failed, enabling law enforcement to bust trafficking rings and prosecute drug dealers.“This type of federal funding is crucial for local drug task forces to keep up with the escalating illicit drug threat we are facing,” said Pat Slack, Commander of the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force.Whatcom County Rapid Border Prosecution Initiative The legislation includes $430,000 to help the Rapid Border Prosecution Project, established in 2005, make the local criminal justice system more efficient by purchasing specialized software to interface with the existing criminal justice database. As a result, judges and professional law enforcement personnel will have more immediate access to vital information regarding offenders in the criminal justice system, which will greatly reduce the backlog of border-related prosecutions. Whatcom County bears a heavy burden processing and prosecuting cases that result from border-related crime, costing the county $2.1 million annually.“I am pleased the House has recognized the importance of supporting public safety efforts in northern border communities,” said Whatcom County Executive Pete Kremen. “This funding will allow Whatcom County to prosecute criminal offenders coming in contact with the international border.” ###
06.17.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Congressman Joe Pitts (PA-16), Co-Chairmen of the Electronic Warfare Working Group (EWWG), today applauded the House Armed Services Committee for agreeing last night to an amendment, authored by Larsen, to the Defense Authorization bill that would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to submit an annual report outlining their electronic warfare (EW) strategy. The amendment also requires DOD to tell Congress what EW capabilities are being used to achieve that strategy and how the military provides leadership on EW issues. Electronic Warfare describes our military’s use of radio frequencies to deploy weapons and protect our troops, and to deny our enemies the use of radio frequencies to attack us. Weapons that depend on radio frequencies range from the simple to the sophisticated. They include air defense radars which help enemies identify and destroy U.S. planes, and improvised explosive devises (IEDs) which have caused significant U.S. casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Larsen’s statement follows:“As a Member of the House Armed Services Committee, I first became involved in this issue because Naval Air Station Whidbey Island in my district is a leader in electronic warfare, a critical part of our national defense. Our Prowlers and Growlers, airborne electronic attack aircraft based on Whidbey Island, protect airborne assets and support our troops on the ground. Across the Armed Services, NAS Whidbey Island is the brain trust for electronic warfare training and expertise.“The Navy, Army, Air Force and Marines all engage in Electronic Warfare in some form. This capability plays a more important role than ever in keeping the men and women in our military safe. That is why the Department of Defense needs a comprehensive and unified strategy to control the electromagnetic spectrum, and Congress needs to know what this strategy is. “I thank my colleague Rep. Pitts for his leadership on electronic warfare, and my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee, in particular and Reps. Akin, Nye and Wittman for cosponsoring this amendment to strengthen our electronic warfare capabilities across the Armed Services.” Congressman Pitts’ statement follows:“We have learned time and time again that EW saves lives. We need to develop the right technology; train our troops to use the capability; field the capability quickly; operate jointly; and stay ahead of the curve. I know from my time as an electronic warfare officer in the Air Force how important EW capabilities are to our troops. "And our Armed Forces use the electromagnetic spectrum now more than ever. The Electronic Warfare Working Group aims to strengthen EW capabilities and assets to maintain the highest level of military readiness today and into the future, and this amendment will help in that effort. “To stay ahead of the curve, we need a plan. We need a strategy. And Congress needs to know and understand how the Defense Department is ensuring the future of our EW capability. I applaud the Armed Services Committee for accepting this amendment. It will lead to a strategic advantage for our troops in the field.” ###
06.16.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement following his Saturday Town Talk in Ferndale, which was attended by more than one hundred people: “I want to thank everyone who took time out of their weekend to come to my Town Talk event in Ferndale on Saturday. We had a great turnout and a lively discussion. For folks who weren’t able to be there, I want to share my thoughts with you on some key issues we discussed.“The economy right now is a mixed bag. But there seem to be a few glimmers of hope that our economy has stabilized. Lending between banks has thawed somewhat, consumer spending has started to increase, and sales of new homes have stopped falling. “But many people in our community are still hurting. Whatcom County's unemployment rate was 8.6 percent in April, down from 8.8 percent in March. The number of Whatcom County families losing their homes dropped in May compared to April, but still remains high. Seventy-seven of our neighbors applied for bankruptcy in April, the highest number since October 2005.“Your economic recovery dollars are making a difference: The Opportunity Council is using the $3 million they received from the recovery package to put in insulation and upgrade heating systems for 185 families, saving those families money on home heating costs and creating green jobs. Whatcom County is using $92,844 to hire new deputies and support the Northwest Regional Drug Task Force, which serves Ferndale and other parts of Whatcom County, and strengthen the WENET information system. In Ferndale, the recovery package will construct a new road on 2nd Avenue from Washington to Portal Way at the I-5 Southbound off ramp. This access road will enable the development of a commercial area that has been unable to prosper due to inadequate road access, providing numerous permanent jobs. “These are just a few examples. The pace of the recovery plan continues to ramp up, and we will see more progress in the coming months. “We need health care reform: The skyrocketing cost of health care is one of the greatest challenges we face as a country. Bringing down health care costs is critical for families, businesses and our long-term economic growth. “I support the following principles for health-care reform: “First, we must protect what works. If you like your doctor, you should be able to keep your doctor. If you like the health-care coverage you have, you should be able to keep it. “Second, we must address the No. 1 issue for families and businesses — we must make health care affordable and bring down costs. “Third, if we want quality, affordable health care for all Americans, we must ensure that people are not discriminated against due to pre-existing conditions or overcharged for prescription drugs. “And fourth, we must ensure that Washington state physicians and hospitals are reimbursed fairly. Medicare providers in our community are currently paid less than providers in other areas because they provide more efficient and cost-effective care. That is simply not fair to doctors in Whatcom County, and it is not fair to the patients who depend on them.“There are many ideas for health care reform on the table. In my view, the goals of health care reform should be to cover all Americans, reduce costs, and improve quality. How we get there is the subject of considerable debate in Congress, and something I will be working hard to address in the coming months.” ###
06.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — The U.S. House of Representatives today voted overwhelmingly to establish new U.S. policy in opposition to any global climate change treaty that weakens the intellectual property rights of American green technology. The vote comes as U.S. diplomats prepare for climate change negotiations in Copenhagen this December as part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The House-passed amendment to the Foreign Relations Authorization Act offered by U.S. Reps. Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) requires the President, the Secretary of State and America’s U.N. Ambassador to oppose any climate change treaty that would weaken intellectual property rights related to energy or environmental technology. “American innovations in clean energy technology create good-paying jobs today and will fuel our country’s economic growth in the future,” said Larsen. “As we combat global climate change, we cannot afford to lose this opportunity for job creation by forfeiting the right of American companies to the innovations they develop.” “As strong supporters of bipartisan action to combat global climate change, we should recognize the opportunity to create millions of American ‘green jobs’ by investing in clean, alternative, renewable and energy efficient technologies,” said Congressman Kirk, a member of the U.S. delegation to Kyoto in 1997. “But these jobs will not be created if a new treaty allows foreign competitors to seize the inventions of American scientists and manufacturers.” On May 19th, the UNFCCC released its draft negotiating text, which included a section calling for the removal of “barriers to development and transfer of technologies from developed to developing country Parties arising from the intellectual property rights (IPR) protection including…compulsory licensing for specific patented technologies.” If approved, such a provision would significantly weaken the U.S. economy. By 2030, industries with green-collar jobs could provide up to 40 million American jobs and generate up to $4.53 trillion in annual revenue. American inventors hold 50% of the world’s patents in the clean energy field, 52% of patents in fuel cells, nearly half the world’s wind patents, 46% of the world’s solar patents and 40% of the world’s patents in the hybrid/electric vehicle market. The Larsen-Kirk amendment was endorsed by the Solar Energy Industries Association, National Hydrogen Association, National Association of Manufacturers, Edison International, Westinghouse, PV Powered, Eaton, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the American Chamber of Commerce China, and the Emergency Committee for American Trade. ###
06.10.2009	Today we pause to remember the tenth anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion, a tragedy that cut short the lives of three young people in our community.In the aftermath of the Bellingham explosion, our community was united in grief. Another generation may ask each other, "Where were you when President Kennedy died?" but here in Whatcom County, many of us ask, "Where you were when the pipeline exploded?"In the days following this tragedy, the families of the victims, local community members and activists mobilized in support of new laws to strengthen pipeline safety. In 2002, Congress passed the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act which increased fines for negligent pipeline operators, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided protection for whistleblowers and allowed for state oversight of pipeline safety. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety Act.These two acts of Congress have made pipeline safety laws stronger, the construction of new pipelines better, and our existing pipeline infrastructure much safer. But while we have made significant progress in improving the safety of our nation's pipelines, we must remain vigilant.That is why I worked with the Pipeline Safety Trust to designate June 10th, 2009 as National Pipeline Safety Day. A congressional resolution recognizing National Pipeline Safety Day passed the U.S. House of Representatives last night, commemorating the tenth anniversary of the explosion in Bellingham. Our resolution encourages individuals, state and local governments and pipeline safety stakeholders to work together to create greater public awareness of pipeline safety.While tremendous progress has been made on pipeline safety, important issues need our ongoing attention. More community involvement is needed in the placement and testing of pipelines, and we must remain vigilant in testing our pipeline infrastructure to protect public safety. Community leaders, local, state and federal government officials and the pipeline industry must continue to work together to address these issues.It is unfortunate that it took a terrible tragedy like the one here in Whatcom County before Congress and the pipeline industry woke up to the need to improve our pipeline safety laws. The tenth anniversary of this tragedy should serve as a reminder to all of us that we must remain vigilant. The Pipeline Safety Trust and other local activists have led the way in improving pipeline safety. Let their leadership serve as an example for all of us to follow.U.S. Representative Rick Larsen is a member of the House Transportation Infrastructure Committee and helped write the 2002 federal law which strengthened pipeline safety.
06.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution introduced by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) designating June 10th, 2009 as National Pipeline Safety Day. The resolution commemorates the 10th anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion, a tragedy that cut short the lives of three young people in Whatcom County, Washington.Larsen led the floor debate on the resolution, which passed the House by a voice vote. Following are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “M. Speaker, I rise today to ask the House of Representatives to support the designation of June 10th – tomorrow – as National Pipeline Safety Day. “There are more than 2 million miles of gas and hazardous liquid pipelines in our country. Pipelines play a vital role in the lives of the American people by delivering the energy we need to heat our homes, drive our cars, cook our food, and operate our businesses. “In the past decade, significant new pipelines have been built to help move oil and gas to refineries and markets. These pipelines are invisible to most people and are therefore out of sight and out of mind. This can lead to pipeline damage and a general lack of government oversight. “On June 10, 1999, a pipeline leak caused a massive explosion in my district in Bellingham, Washington. The rupture released more than a quarter of a million gallons of gasoline into Whatcom Creek. The gasoline ignited, sending a fireball racing down the creek that killed two 10 year-old boys and an 18 year-old man. The two boys, Stephen Tsiorvas and Wade King, were playing in a creek near their homes on an idyllic summer day, and 18 year-old Liam Wood, had just graduated from high school and was fly-fishing for trout.“Previous generations may ask the question “where were you when President Kennedy was shot?” But in my district people ask the question “where were you when the pipeline exploded?” It had that much of an impact on my district. “In response to this tragedy and several other pipeline explosions across the country, Congress passed legislation to strengthen our pipeline safety regulations. The 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act increased penalty fines, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided whistleblower protection, and allowed for state oversight. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety (PIPES) Act. “Since that day in June, we have made significant progress in ensuring the safety of our nation’s pipelines. The frequency of “high consequence events” to pipelines has diminished almost 35 percent over the last ten years. Due to the integrity management program required by the new law, pipeline operators have made extensive repairs to their pipelines that otherwise would have led to future accidents. The 811 One Call program provides a number people can call before they dig to make sure that they won’t hit a pipeline. And Congress has significantly increased the number of pipeline inspectors in the field. “However, we must remain vigilant. That’s why I have introduced H.Res.484, a resolution to recognize tomorrow, June 10, 2009 – the ten-year anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion – as National Pipeline Safety Day. “My resolution encourages individuals, state and local governments, and pipeline safety stakeholders to use this day to create greater public awareness of pipelines and pipeline safety. It has the support of Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire, the Whatcom County Council, the Pipeline Safety Trust, the Pipeline Association for Public Awareness, the American Gas Association, and the American Public Gas Association. “I encourage my colleagues to support this resolution.”###
06.04.2009	Washington, D.C. — Congress is one step closer to recognizing June 10th as National Pipeline Safety Day. Today, a congressional resolution introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion and recognize June 10th as National Pipeline Safety Day passed the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, of which Larsen is a member, by a unanimous vote. Larsen delivered the following remarks today before the Committee: “Chairman Oberstar and Chairwoman Brown, thank you for your help to advance this important resolution. “On June 10, 1999, a pipeline leak caused a massive explosion in my district in Bellingham, Washington. The rupture released more than a quarter of a million gallons of gasoline into Whatcom Creek. The gasoline ignited, sending a fireball racing down the creek that killed two 10 year-old boys and an 18 year-old man. “Another generation may ask, “where were you when President Kennedy died?” but in my district people ask where you were when the pipeline exploded. It had that much of an impact on my district.“In response to this tragedy and several other pipeline explosions across the country, Congress passed legislation to strengthen our pipeline safety regulations. The 2002 Pipeline Safety Improvement Act increased penalty fines, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided whistleblower protection, and allowed for state oversight. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety (PIPES) Act. “The bill also set up the 811 program, which is a number people can call before they dig to make sure that they won’t hit a pipeline. “Since that day in June 1999, we have made significant progress in ensuring the safety of our nation’s pipelines, but we must remain vigilant. That’s why I have introduced H.Res.484, a resolution to recognize June 10, 2009 – the ten year anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion – as National Pipeline Safety Day. “My resolution encourages individuals, state and local governments, and pipeline safety stakeholders to use this day to create greater public awareness of pipelines and pipeline safety. It has the support of Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire, the Whatcom County Council, the Pipeline Safety Trust, the Pipeline Association for Public Awareness, the American Gas Association, and the American Public Gas Association. “I encourage my colleagues to support this resolution.”###
06.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) is working to ensure that the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) does not hurt travel and trade on our common border with Canada. WHTI, which requires travelers at the Peace Arch and other ports of entry to present a secure travel card, went into effect on Monday, June 1st. This week, Larsen cosponsored legislation (The IMPACTT Act, HR 2670) to provide strong oversight of WHTI and quickly identify any problems so steps can be taken to maintain a secure and efficient border. “Millions of American jobs depend on the quick and efficient transport of goods and passengers across our Northern border,” said Larsen, a member of the Northern Border Caucus and co-chair of the 2010 Olympics Task Force. “In 2008 alone, over $596 billion in commerce crossed our common border with Canada. We need to ensure that the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative does not hurt trade, tourism and our local economy.” This WHTI oversight legislation, written by Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-28), will measure the economic impact of WHTI, track WHTI's impact on travel and trade, measure enrollment into frequent traveler cards including NEXUS, analyze staffing and infrastructure levels at land and sea ports of entry, and study the effect of WHTI on border delays and overall border security. Larsen has long worked to ensure that WHTI does not have a negative impact on travel and trade on our Northern border, and in 2007 was part of an effort delay the implementation of WHTI from January, 2008 until June, 2009. “As the clock ticks closer to the 2010 Olympics, it is critical that we quickly identify any problems with WHTI so we can find solutions to keep our common border with Canada running securely and efficiently,” Larsen continued.The WHTI IMPACTT Act (Implementation Monitoring Plan to Assure Continued Travel and Trade) will require the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department to jointly submit reports to Congress on December 1, 2009 and June 1, 2010 with the following information: The effects of WHTI implementation on travel and trade across the Northern border, including an analysis of the economic impact of WHTI, monthly figures for passenger and freight border crossings, and its effects, if any, on travel delays at major border crossings. Enrollment levels for frequent traveler programs such as NEXUS and Passport Cards. Information on Customs and Border Protection staffing levels on the northern border crossings. Analysis of the effect of WHTI on overall northern border security ###
06.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — Last night the House of Representatives passed legislation cosponsored by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to allow for the continued stocking of fish in the North Cascades National Park, Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, and Ross Lake National Recreation Area in Washington state. The legislation, introduced by Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04), passed the House by a voice vote, and must also pass the Senate before it could be signed into law. Larsen entered the following remarks into the Congressional Record: “Madame Speaker, I rise today to express my support for HR 2430, legislation which will allow for the continued stocking of trout in mountain lakes in the North Cascades National Park, Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, and Ross Lake National Recreation Area in my home state of Washington.“For over 100 years, sportsmen and women in the Pacific Northwest have stocked lakes in the North Cascades with trout early each summer and returned later in the year with family and friends to camp and fish. “Fish stocking brings not only recreational benefits, but also economic benefits for rural communities that rely on sportsmen and park visitors to sustain local businesses.“The practice of fish stocking is supported by both the angling community and the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife. Earlier this year, the North Cascades National Park issued an Environmental Impact Statement supporting the continued stocking of fish.“However, a recent legal opinion issued by the National Parks Service threatens this decades-old tradition. The Parks Service has determined that, without legal clarification from Congress, they will be unable to allow fish stocking in the future.“HR 2430 would provide the Parks Service with the clarification it needs to continue to allow fish stocking. This legislation will authorize the Secretary of the Interior, in coordination with the State of Washington, to allow sportsmen to stock native or functionally sterile trout in up to 42 alpine lakes in the North Cascades National Park, Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, and Ross Lake National Recreation Area.“I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan legislation to protect the tradition of fish stocking in and around the North Cascades National Park.”###
05.22.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised today’s announcement that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) will be providing relief through the Dairy Export Incentive Program (DEIP) for U.S. dairy farmers who are struggling with low prices. “Today’s announcement by Agriculture Secretary Vilsack is welcome news for dairy farmers in my district and across the country,” said Larsen. “The Dairy Export Incentive program can provide a lifeline for American dairy producers struggling with low prices, while complying with U.S. commitments under the World Trade Organization (WTO).”As Congress crafted the 2008 Farm Bill, Larsen spoke in support of DEIP and the local dairy producers whose work it supports.According to the USDA, DEIP helps exporters of U.S. dairy products meet prevailing world prices for their products. Under the program, the USDA pays cash to exporters as bonuses, allowing them to sell certain U.S. dairy products at prices lower than the exporter's costs of acquiring them. The major objective of the program is to develop export markets for dairy products where U.S. products are not competitive because of the presence of subsidized products from other countries.###
05.21.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) introduced a congressional resolution to recognize June 10th, the tenth anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion, as National Pipeline Safety Day. On June 10, 1999, a pipeline leak caused a massive explosion in Bellingham, Washington in Larsen’s district. The rupture released more than a quarter of a million gallons of gasoline into Whatcom Creek. The gasoline ignited, killing two 10 year-old boys and an 18 year-old man.In response to this tragedy and several other pipeline explosions across the country, Larsen worked to pass legislation to strengthen our pipeline safety regulations. In 2002, he was a leader in passing the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act which increased penalty fines, improved pipeline testing timelines, provided whistleblower protection and allowed for state oversight. In 2006, Congress reauthorized the 2002 law by passing the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement and Safety (PIPES) Act. “Since that tragic day ten years ago, we have made significant progress in ensuring the safety of our nation’s pipelines, but we must remain vigilant,” Larsen said today. “That is why I introduced a resolution to recognize June 10, 2009 – the ten year anniversary of the Bellingham pipeline explosion – as National Pipeline Safety Day. This resolution encourages individuals, state and local governments and pipeline safety stakeholders to use this tragic day to create greater public awareness of pipelines and pipeline safety.”The full text of Larsen’s resolution follows. “Whereas there are more than two million miles of gas and hazardous liquid pipelines in this country operated by over 3,000 companies; and“Whereas these pipelines play a vital role in the lives of Americans by delivering the energy we need to heat our homes, drive our cars, cook our food and operate our businesses; and“Whereas in the past decade significant new pipelines have been built to help move north American sources of oil and gas to refineries and markets; and“Whereas on June 10, 1999 a hazardous liquid pipeline ruptured and exploded in a park in Bellingham, Washington, killing two ten-year-old boys and a young man, destroying a salmon stream, and causing hundreds of millions of dollars in damages and economic disruption, and“Whereas in response to this June 10th pipeline tragedy the U.S. Congress passed significant new pipeline safety regulations in the form of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 and the Pipeline Inspection, Protection, Enforcement, and Safety Act of 2006, and“Whereas in the past decade the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipelines and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, with support from a diverse group of stakeholders, has instituted a variety of important new rules and pipeline safety initiatives such as the Common Ground Alliance, pipeline emergency training with the National Association of State Fire Marshals, and the Pipelines and Informed Planning Alliance; and“Whereas even with all these new pipeline safety improvements, in 2008 alone there were still 274 significant pipeline incidents causing over $395 million in property damage and uncounted economic disruption; and“Whereas even though pipelines are the safest method to transport huge quantities of fuel, pipeline incidents such as the 1994 pipeline explosion in Edison, New Jersey which left 100 people homeless, or the 1996 butane pipeline explosion in Texas that left two teenagers dead, or the 2000 pipeline explosion near Carlsbad, New Mexico that killed 12 people in an extended family, or the 2004 pipeline explosion in Walnut Creek, California that killed five workers, or the 2007 propane pipeline explosion in Mississippi that killed a teenager and her grandmother are still occurring, and“Whereas these millions of miles of pipelines are still out of sight and therefore out of mind for the majority of individuals, local governments, and businesses, leading to pipeline damage and general lack of oversight, and“Whereas greater awareness of pipelines and pipeline safety can improve public safety; and“Whereas a National Pipeline Safety Day can provide a focal point for creating greater pipeline safety awareness, and“Whereas June 10, 2009 is the tenth anniversary of the Bellingham, Washington pipeline tragedy that was the impetus for many of the above-mentioned safety improvements: Now therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives –1. expresses support for the designation of June 10th as National Pipeline Safety Day;encourages state and local governments to observe the day with appropriate activities that promote pipeline safety;3. encourages all pipeline safety stakeholders to use this day to create greater public awareness of all the advancements that can lead to even greater pipeline safety; and4. encourages individuals across the nation to become more aware of the pipelines that run through our communities and do what they can to encourage safe practices and damage prevention.”###
05.20.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to bring common-sense reform and consumer protections to the credit card industry. The legislation, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, passed the House with a bipartisan majority of 361 to 64 and will now go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Consumers who play by the rules deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card company,” said Larsen. “That is why I voted for common-sense rules to ban unfair practices and protect consumers.” The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights bans most interest rate increases on existing balances and increases the notice required for interest rate hikes on new purchases. It requires that bills be sent 21 days before the due date; prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, mail or web; bans over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance; bans due-date tricks; requires payments to be applied fairly to the highest interest rate balance first; and strengthens credit card protections for young people. “With so many American families struggling to make ends meet, we must ensure that consumers who are working hard to pay off their credit card debt are given a fair deal.” ###
05.15.2009	Washington, D.C. — This week, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) asked the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to provide federal funding for twenty-eight local priorities in the major, six-year surface transportation bill being written by the Committee this spring. Over the past year, Larsen, a Member of House Transportation Committee and the Highways and Transit Subcommittee, has met with local stakeholders and transportation leaders throughout the 2nd Congressional District to get their input on the surface transportation bill. Of the fifty-four local requests Larsen received for federal funding, he is working to fund twenty-eight. “Our nation needs a strong investment in infrastructure to modernize our roads, bridges and transit, create jobs, and help get our economy moving again,” said Larsen. “From improving public safety on US 2, to strengthening our local ferry system, to improving freight mobility to help move goods efficiently and spur trade, the twenty-eight local projects I support will help build a foundation for economic growth.”In 2005, when Congress last passed a major surface transportation bill (then called SAFETEA-LU), Larsen helped bring $52 million back to the 2nd Congressional District to improve public safety, ease congestion and create jobs. In reviewing community requests for earmarked funding this year, Larsen considered if the project is a valuable use of taxpayer funds, if it meets 2nd District needs and priorities, if it is prepared to use federal funding effectively, and if it can be funded in an earmarked account. “In the interest of transparency, I encourage my constituents to go online to www.house.gov/larsen to view my full list of requests to modernize local roads, bridges and transit and improve public safety,” said Larsen. Larsen’s requests to the House Transportation Committee are listed below, organized by County. This list complies with Committee rules to ensure public transparency. Island County$3 million for SR 525/Honeymoon Bay Rd/Bush Point Rd. Intersection Improvements: The project consists of designing and constructing a modern roundabout at the intersection of State Route 525, Honeymoon Bay Road and Bush Point Road on Whidbey Island. A roundabout would improve safety and mobility at this congested intersection. $4.94 million for the New County Road, Whidbey Island: This project would construct a new road to serve as an alternative north-south route to SR 525, the only roadway connecting this portion of central Whidbey Island. This new road would ensure the safe, uninterrupted flow of people and freight through Whidbey Island.$8.6 million for the Island Transit Whidbey Main Base Operations Facility Project: This request would construct infrastructure and the maintenance building, the fuel building and the bus wash building for Island Transit’s new Whidbey Main Base Operations Facility.San Juan County$6.4 million for the Cattle Point Road Relocation Project: This project would construct the relocation of Cattle Point Road on San Juan Island, which is currently located on a bluff that is rapidly eroding into the ocean 150 feet below.Skagit County$3 million Anacortes Multimodal Terminal Replacement: This request would complete the design phase of the Anacortes Multimodal Terminal Replacement Project, a project to replace the aging Anacortes Ferry Terminal.$800,000 for SR 20/Burlington Pedestrian and School Zone Safety Improvements: The pedestrian mobility and safety project would construct sidewalks, add a signal, crossing improvements, and signs on SR20 near the Burlington-Edison Alternative and West View Elementary Schools.$2.96 million for the City of Mount Vernon Downtown Riverwalk and Trail Project: This request would construct a pedestrian trail along the Skagit River in downtown Mount Vernon. This project is a critical part of Mount Vernon’s downtown revitalization project.$902,476 for the Roosevelt Extension at Urban Avenue to Cameron Way: This project would construct a new road to provide an alternative, parallel route to College Way, the City of Mount Vernon’s most congested roadway.$5.92 million for the Anderson Laventure Extension Project: This project would construct a new arterial roadway to connect Anderson Road at the Interstate 5 interchange to South Laventure, an existing north/south arterial in eastern Mount Vernon.$2.114 million for the Jameson Arterial Extension to SR 9: This project would construct a new roundabout intersection at SR 9 with direct connection to Jameson Street in Sedro Woolley, Washington.$950,000 for the North Sound Connecting Communities Project: This request would continue the NSCCP, so local jurisdictions can coordinate strategies and prioritize intercounty and intermodal transportation projects along the Interstate 5 corridor. Projects include passenger rail, intercounty transit, ferry improvements, bicycling and walking connectivity, and public and private cooperation in transit service.Snohomish County$7 million for US 2, Snohomish to Gold Bar, Safety Improvements: This project would construct critical safety improvements on the dangerous US 2 highway, including a westbound overcrossing on-ramp at Bickford Avenue. This location has experienced a significant number of collisions in the past five years.$7 million for the Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal: This request would complete the planning, environmental, and preliminary engineering phase of the relocated Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal, a major ferry terminal in my district. $3.96 million for Sound Transit Clean Fuel Bus Procurement: This project would procure up to five clean fueled, commuter buses required to support service expansion on Sound Transit’s regional commuter bus routes linking designated regional centers in Snohomish & King counties.$5.5 million for Community Transit Bus Replacement Hybrid Conversion: This request would provide funds necessary to purchase 10 hybrid buses for Community Transit’s bus replacement project.$3.36 million for 41st St. to West Marine View Drive Freight Corridor Improvements: This project would improve the City of Everett’s 41st Street to West Marine View Drive freight corridor, which is critical to moving freight to and from the Port of Everett.$2 million for Everett Transit Replacement Coaches: Funding will allow Everett Transit to acquire four new hybrid coaches to replace older diesel-powered coaches that will have operated over 500,000 miles each and will have reached the end of their service life.$2 million for Centennial Trail Expansion: This project would construct 1.8 additional miles of paved, grade separated, multi-purpose non-motorized transportation and recreational trail. This project will extend the existing Centennial Trail from its current terminus at 152nd NE on 67th NE and will complete the 19.3 mile trail link between the City of Snohomish and the City of Arlington.$2 million for State Avenue Corridor Improvements: This project would widen State Avenue in Marysville between 116th Street and 136th Street to a five-lane arterial street section, complete with curb, gutter, sidewalks, and two-way left turn lane.$585,000 US 2 Pedestrian Safety Sidewalk: This project would provide a safe walkway and bicycle route to connect a residential area of Gold Bar to the city center.$1.22 million for US 2 and Sultan Basin Road Realignment: This request would complete the Sultan Basin Road Realignment to US 2, including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and treatment, addition of traffic control signals, lighting, and left turn lanes on US 2.$444,940 for Main Street/Old Owen Road/US 2 Intersection Improvements: This project would provide a dedicated eastbound right turn lane on Main Street at US 2 to improve safety.$3.36 million for I-5/116th Street NE Interchange Improvements: This request would provide for design, permits and construction bid documents for constructing a new bridge deck for the 116th Street NE Interchange.Whatcom County$4.4 million for the Whatcom Transportation Authority Fleet Replacement Project: This request would replace WTA's 13 fully depreciated buses with new, biodiesel compatible buses.$3.8 million for Intercity Passenger Rail Service Improvements, Blaine-Swift: This freight mobility and intercity passenger rail project would increase rail line capacity in the Swift Customs Facility vicinity by constructing new main track and providing additional siding track.$1.44 million for the International Mobility and Trade Corridor Project: This project would continue international coordination of transportation planning, programming, and border operation with Canada regarding the four border-crossings connecting Whatcom County, WA and British Columbia, Canada.$8 million for the Cornwall Bridge Replacement Project: This project will reconstruct the Cornwall Avenue bridge in order to accommodate the relocation of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe rail mainline track which presently passes through Bellingham’s Waterfront District. This project is critical to the City and Port of Bellingham’s Waterfront Redevelopment Project.$6.9512 million for the Lincoln Creek Transportation Center: This project would construct an inter-jurisdictional transportation center along the I-5 corridor serving Whatcom and Skagit Counties to include pedestrian walkways, right of way improvements, bus shelter, and revised transit access.###
05.14.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S.-China Working Group Co-chairs U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Rep. Mark Kirk (IL-10), along with their colleagues U.S. Rep. Susan Davis (CA-53) and U.S. Rep. Steve Israel (NY-02), today announced the bipartisan U.S.-China Competitiveness Agenda, four bills to invest in America’s economic future, help small and medium-sized businesses succeed in the growing Chinese market, expand U.S.-China energy cooperation, grow our diplomatic infrastructure in China and boost Chinese language programs in the United States.“In Washington state, trade means jobs: one-third of all jobs in Washington state depend on trade, and China is the top foreign market for Washington state products,” said Larsen, co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “The U.S.-China Market Engagement and Export Promotion Act will help give American small and medium-sized businesses the tools they need to tap into the China market and create good-paying jobs here at home.” China is the second-largest economy in the world when measured by domestic purchasing power parity, and China's booming economy presents a growing export opportunity for U.S. small and medium-sized businesses. Since 2000, U.S. exports to China have shot up by more than 300 percent. The next-largest increase in U.S. exports was to Germany, far behind at 70 percent. Yet in spite of this growth, U.S. small businesses continue to face obstacles understanding and navigating the Chinese market. Financial roadblocks, conflicting information, intellectual property rights issues and cultural differences create barriers for American companies.“To strengthen our economy, enhance American competitiveness and create new, high-paying jobs in the United States, we must expand our diplomatic and economic footprint in China,” said Kirk, co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “By deploying more Chinese-speaking diplomats and commercial officers to cities with more than five million people, we can create new opportunities for U.S. exporters and speed up our economic recovery.”“It is little news to anyone that China is on the rise,” said Davis. “With a population of over 1.3 billion people and the second largest economy in the world when measured by domestic purchasing power parity, China is poised to become a world power, economically, diplomatically, and militarily. Yet at a time when China’s influence on the world stage is increasing, our national understanding of the “Middle Kingdom” has not kept pace.”“AmCham-China fully endorses the legislation announced today. We want to thank Congressman Larsen, Congressman Kirk, Congresswoman Davis and Congressman Isreal for their vision and leadership in putting forward an affirmative agenda that addresses our imbalances in the trade relationship by playing great offense,” said John Watkins, Chairman of AmCham-China. “We believe these bills are good for American business and the US economy. These bills will help Americans and American companies win more in China and, thus, create new and sustain existing jobs in the U.S.” “At a time when our country so needs to increase exports, we appreciate Congressman Larsen’s outstanding leadership on this issue,” said Don Wick, Executive Director of the Economic Development Association of Skagit County. “The Northwest’s future is so closely linked to trade with Asia. This Act will open up opportunities for small-to-medium sized businesses in the Northwest to do business in China. Small businesses in the Northwest are in such a unique position to take advantage of the assistance this program would provide. What an excellent opportunity this presents to Skagit county businesses.”H.R. 2310: The U.S. - China Market Engagement and Export Promotion Act (authored by Rep. Rick Larsen): Helps states establish and operate offices in China to promote exports. Creates a program establishing China Market Advocate Positions in US Export Assistance Centers around the country. Provides assistance to small businesses for trade missions to China. Authorizes Small Business Administration (SBA) grants for Chinese business education programs. H.R. 2311: The U.S.-China Diplomatic Expansion Act (authored by Rep. Mark Kirk): Increases funding for public diplomacy with an emphasis on Internet communications Provides funds to build another consulate and establish 10 American presence posts Increases funding for State Department student exchange programs Increases funding for State Department teacher exchange programs Increases funding for Rule of Law Initiatives Increases funding for Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation H.R. 2312: The U.S.-China Energy Cooperation Act (authored by Rep. Steve Israel): Authorizes a grant program to encourage joint American-Chinese research and development and policy education. Grants will fund joint energy and climate change policy education programs and/or joint research, development, or commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology, improved energy efficiency, or renewable energy sources. Entities eligible for grant funding are joint ventures comprised of both Chinese and American private business entities, joint ventures comprised of both Chinese and American academics or joint ventures comprised of Chinese and American Federal, State, or local governments. H.R. 2313: The U.S.-Chinese Language Engagement Act (authored by Rep. Susan Davis): Increases Chinese cultural studies and language acquisition for American students through Local Education Agencies (LEAs). Supports collaborative efforts between LEAs and institutions of higher education and exchanges with academic institutions in China. Develops programs that include intensive summer Chinese language instruction, connecting Chinese and English Speakers and cultural studies. U.S. Working Group Co-Chairs Kirk and Larsen will visit China this month to explore ways that American businesses can tap the rapidly-growing China market to create jobs here at home, and to identify opportunities for bilateral cooperation to address the global economic crisis. ###
05.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Monday May 18, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host a telephone town hall with constituents from across the 2nd Congressional District to update them about his work to help rebuild the economy and create jobs, and to hear from his constituents and answer their questions on other important issues. Larsen will host the call from his office in Washington, D.C. to speak with constituents from Island, Snohomish, Skagit, San Juan, Whatcom and King Counties. 'In the past few months, I have hosted several in-person town halls in the 2nd District focused on rebuilding the economy and creating jobs," said Larsen. "These events have been well-attended, but it can be difficult for many people to find time away from their families and day-to-day responsibilities to attend an event outside their home. I am hosting a telephone town hall to give constituents another opportunity to share their thoughts, ask me questions and get involved."Free call-in number for constituents (please feel free to publish in advance): 1-877-269-7289, Code 13740.Reporters are welcome to listen to the call. Due to the large number of constituents expected to participate, we ask that press not ask questions on the call. If you are a reporter planning to listen in, please RSVP to Amanda.mahnke@mail.house.gov. What: Telephone Town Hall with U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02)When: Monday, May 18 6:30 PM Pacific Time / 9:30 PM Eastern TimeCall-in: 1-877-269-7289Code: 13740 ###
05.13.2009	Rebuilding our economy is job number one. That means creating jobs, supporting small businesses and putting in place commonsense rules to protect consumers. Last week, Congress and the Obama Administration took action to help small businesses succeed and to help consumers get a fair deal from their credit card company and a fair mortgage on their home.Help for small businessesAs I have met with constituents in Arlington and across the 2nd Congressional District, I have heard from many local business owners who are struggling to get the capital they need to succeed and create jobs.Help is on the way. If you own a small business or are looking to start one, you may be eligible for a loan from the Small Business Administration (SBA). President Obama’s recovery plan increases credit for small businesses, temporarily eliminates fees on SBA-backed loans, raises SBA’s guarantee percentage on some loans to 90 percent, and creates a new loan program to help small businesses meet existing debt payments.Thanks to a temporary rule change announced by the Obama Administration to help get credit flowing, as many as 70,000 more small businesses could now be eligible for SBA 7(a) loans. This change could help 300 businesses in the 2nd Congressional District, including auto and RV dealerships and auto industry suppliers, succeed and sustain 4,000 local jobs, according to Tom Dorr with Western Washington University’s Center for Economic Vitality.To help local small businesses connect with available resources, my staff will host a small business workshop in the 2nd Congressional District during the month of June. If you are interested in participating, please email rsvp.larsen@mail.house.gov or call my Everett office at 425-252-3188 or 800-562-1385. You can also visit the SBA’s website at https://www.sba.gov/recovery/information/index.html for more information about help for small businesses.The Credit Cardholder Bill of RightsConsumers who play by the rules deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card companies. That is why I voted to put in place common-sense rules to ban unfair practices and protect consumers. I am pleased that the Credit Cardholder’s Bill of Rights passed the House with bipartisan support.The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights protects cardholders against arbitrary and retroactive interest rate increases, empowers them to set limits on their credit, and requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments. It also bans companies from charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, charging over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance, and issuing credit cards to minors.This important bill needs to pass the Senate before it can be signed into law. With more American families struggling to make ends meet, consumers who are working hard to pay off their debt deserve a fair deal.Fair mortgages for homeownersAction is needed to prevent predatory lending and help ensure fair mortgages for homeowners. This quarter, three times as many homes in Snohomish County are in foreclosure compared to just two years ago. Foreclosure rates across the country have reached the highest level in 25 years.That is why I voted for the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, legislation to help ensure fair mortgages for homeowners and ban industry practices that have fueled to the boom in subprime lending. This bill passed the House on May 7, and must pass the Senate before it can become law.The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act bans mortgage lenders from steering borrowers into higher cost loans and creates a simple standard for all home loans: institutions must ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. For mortgage refinancings, the bill requires that all loans provide a real benefit to the consumer. And for the first time ever, the secondary mortgage market would be held accountable for meeting these standards when they buy loans and turn them into securities.Help for small businesses, a credit cardholder bill of rights, and common-sense mortgage reform: three important steps to strengthen our economy and help prevent a crisis like the current one from ever happening again. Please visit www.house.gov/larsen for more information about economic recovery and to share your thoughts. I appreciate hearing from you.
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) recorded the following message today on health care reform for KSER radio in Snohomish County, Washington. Following are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery.“This is Congressman Rick Larsen. Thank you to the League of Women Voters and KSER radio for this important public service and for giving me the opportunity to talk to your listeners about health care reform. “The skyrocketing cost of health care is one of the greatest challenges we face as a country. Bringing down health care costs is critical for families, businesses and our long-term economic growth. “But before I talk about what we need to change, let’s talk about some of the progress President Obama and this Congress have already made on expanding access to quality health care. “In February, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law legislation to provide health care to 11 million children across the country. The Children’s Health Insurance Program bill, or CHIP, ensures that nearly 1,000 kids in Snohomish County alone who haven’t been covered will now get the care they need. Moreover, it will save money in the long-run by reducing expensive emergency room visits as primary care. “CHIP was an important step forward, but there is still a need for action. “In the past eight years, health care premiums have grown four times faster than wages, and an additional nine million Americans have become uninsured. Many of our neighbors who have health care are just a pink slip away from joining the nearly 46 million Americans who are uninsured. “And while Americans are spending more money per-person on health care than anywhere else in the world, we are not seeing the results we deserve from that investment. “President Obama has said that health care reform is not just a moral imperative, it is an economic imperative. If we want to create jobs and rebuild our economy, then we must address the crushing cost of health care on our families and businesses. “President Obama has set the goal of enacting comprehensive health care reform by the end of this year. We have much work to do to meet that goal, but I believe that we can reach it. I will be working in Congress to pass health care reform that works for families and businesses in Snohomish County and across our state. “There are many ideas for health care reform on the table. “Most agree that health care reform must cover all Americans, reduce the cost of health care and improve quality. How we get to that point is the subject of considerable debate in Congress. “Some of my colleagues in Congress support establishing a new public plan that would provide Americans with an alternative to the private health insurance market. “Others support requiring all Americans to have health care coverage, with financial support from the federal government for those who can’t afford to pay. “Still others support insurance market reforms so that health care coverage is more affordable for individuals and businesses. “These are important issues that I will be closely examining over the next several months. As a starting point, I support the principles that President Obama has laid out: “First, we need to eliminate fraud, waste and abuse in government health programs. If we want greater accountability and responsibility, we must ensure that people aren’t overcharged for prescription drugs, or discriminated against for pre-existing conditions. If we want to bring down skyrocketing costs, we need to invest in health information technology to improve quality, reform the way we pay our medical providers and invest in prevention. “Second, if we want to cover all Americans, we cannot make the mistake of trying to fix what isn’t broken. If people have insurance and doctors they like, they should be able to keep them. “I will also work to ensure that Washington state physicians and hospitals are reimbursed fairly. Currently Washington state medical providers are paid less than their counterparts in other areas of the country because they provide efficient and cost-effective health care. “Finally, if we want to turn these goals into policies, we need to make our discussion about health care reform as transparent and inclusive as possible. To help make that a reality here in Snohomish County and the 2nd Congressional District, I invite everyone to visit my website, www.house.gov/larsen and click on “contact” to send me an email with your thoughts about health care reform. “For those of you who just joined us, this is Congressman Rick Larsen. Thank you again to the League of Women Voters and KSER radio for devoting time to this important issue.”###
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today praised President Obama’s inclusion of $6 million in his annual budget to purchase Mitchell Hill and transfer it to the San Juan Island National Historical Park to protect this land from development and enhance recreational opportunities for visitors. “Today’s announcement is great news for San Juan County, Northwest Washington and the over 250,000 people who visit the San Juan Island National Historical Park each year,” said Larsen, who has worked for more than six years to protect Mitchell Hill. “This news means that the Obama Administration has recognized the importance of this valuable natural and historic landmark and is making Mitchell Hill a priority.” Inclusion in the President’s budget is an important step in the process of adding Mitchell Hill to the San Juan Island National Historical Park. Next, Congress must provide funding for Mitchell Hill as part of their annual Interior and Environment appropriations bill. Last month, Larsen requested that Congress provide $6 million to complete the acquisition. Mitchell Hill is made up of 320 acres adjacent to the English Camp unit of San Juan Island National Historical Park (NHP). It encompasses a portion of the old Military Road that connected English Camp and American Camp during the joint military occupation during the 19th Century. The Mitchell Hill property is currently owned by the Washington State Department of Natural Resources (DNR). Making Mitchell Hill a part of the San Juan Island Historical Park has a broad range of local support from local officials to local residents. Supporters include The National Park Service, San Juan County, DNR and the San Juan Island Trails Committee. ###
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement following a House Armed Services Committee mark-up of the Weapons Acquisition System Reform Through Enhancing Technical Knowledge and Oversight Act (The “WASTE TKO” Act, H.R. 2101), which passed the Committee today:“Today I joined my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to dramatically reform how the Department of Defense purchases weapons. “In recent years, the Defense Department’s spending plans have been unrealistic and unsustainable. Much of the growth in our defense budget has been driven by weapons programs that cost too much and take too long to develop. According to a Government Accountability Office study released this year, cost overruns from ninety-six Department of Defense weapons programs have totaled $296 billion. These same programs were, on average, 21 months behind schedule. President Obama has said that procurement reform could save taxpayers as much as $40 billion each year.“Our current approach asks, “how much money can we get for the weapon?” But we ought to ask, “how much weapon can we get for the money?” Every dollar that we spend on an over-budget weapons system is a dollar that cannot be used to support the urgent needs of our service members and their families. Cost overruns alone would pay the salaries for our active-duty military and health care for them and their families for two and a half years.“The WASTE TKO Act will address deep-seated and systemic problems in how we procure weapons. This bill will require the Department of Defense to provide more realistic estimates of how much weapons will cost and punish those programs which are failing to meet schedule and cost goals. This legislation will demand additional focus during the early stages of weapons development, when small program changes can have major long-term consequences. When it comes to defense procurement, an ounce of oversight is worth a pound of cure.“I applaud Chairman Ike Skelton, Ranking Member John McHugh, and the Members of the Armed Services Committee’s Defense Acquisition Reform Panel for their work to develop this legislation. The House Armed Services Committee will continue working to meet President Obama’s goal of getting this bill to his desk before Memorial Day.“Reforming our defense budget is going to take a sustained commitment from Congress and the Administration. As Secretary Gates has said, we cannot buy everything and do everything. We will need to make difficult decisions to ensure that our future defense spending plans are both sustainable and consistent with our national security objectives. “As a member of the House Budget Committee and the Armed Services Committee, I am committed to providing for a strong national defense that gives our women and men in uniform the tools they need to do their jobs, while delivering strong oversight of the defense budget that reins in out-of-control spending on major weapons systems.”###
05.06.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today urged Congress to make a strong investment in drug courts, the most effective solution for reducing crime and recidivism among non-violent drug-addicted offenders at a fraction of the cost of sending them to prison. Larsen was joined at the press conference by Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Acting-Director Edward H. Jurith, Chair of the Commerce-Justice-Science Subcommittee Rep. Allan P. Mollohan (WV-01), Chief Executive Officer of the National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP) West Huddleston, and Chairman of the NADCP Board Judge Chuck Simmons. Following the press conference, Larsen was presented with the NADCP Congressional Leadership Award by Board Member Dr. Terree Schmidt-Whelan of the Washington State Meth Initiative and the Pierce County Alliance. PHOTO: Dr. Terree Schmidt-Whelan of the Washington State Meth Initiative presents Larsen with a NADCP leadership award. “In my home state of Washington, methamphetamine and other drugs have taken a terrible toll on our communities – on local families, schools, and businesses,” said U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. “Meth is a powerful drug, and meth addiction can be extremely difficult to beat. But when drug courts intervene, addictions are overcome, crimes prevented, families reunited, and lives saved.” Drug courts blend the oversight of a court with the therapeutic capabilities of drug treatment. The program includes comprehensive supervision, drug testing, treatment services and immediate sanctions and incentives. Drug court programs bring judges, prosecutors, defense counsel, substance abuse treatment specialists, probation officers, law enforcement personnel, educational and vocational experts, mental health workers and others together to force the offender to deal with his or her substance abuse problem.“We are here today to celebrate the 20th birthday of Drug Courts: Twenty years of restoring lives, reuniting families and protecting public safety,” said NADCP CEO West Huddleston. “In the twenty years since the first Drug Court was founded, there has been more research published on the effects of Drug Courts than on virtually all other criminal justice programs combined. The scientific community has put Drug Courts under the microscope and concluded that Drug Courts significantly reduce drug abuse and crime and do so at less expense than any other justice strategy.” Drug courts cost less than $5,000 for one year of treatment with low recidivism, compared to $25,000 to $45,000 to incarcerate an addict who typically is rearrested within 90 days. In Washington state, Snohomish County's drug court has a 93 percent success rate. Drug courts have been recognized as an effective weapon against the methamphetamine epidemic. In June 2005, the Justice Department released a report confirming that drug courts are a critical part of our nation's strategy to address methamphetamine. Following are Larsen’s full remarks as prepared for delivery: “I want to thank the National Association of Drug Court Professionals and all the other leaders who are here today to support their work, in particular Terree Schmidt-Whelan from the Washington State Meth Initiative, who has been a leader in the fight against the methamphetamine epidemic in Washington state and a strong advocate for drug courts.“In my home state of Washington, methamphetamine and other drugs have taken a terrible toll. As co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, I have seen the devastating impact of drug addiction on our families, schools, businesses and communities. That is why I have made it a specific goal of my office to support drug interdiction efforts and support key prevention, treatment and education efforts like drug courts.“Meth is a powerful drug, and meth addiction can be extremely difficult to beat. But when drug courts intervene, addictions are overcome, crimes prevented, families reunited, and lives saved.“Throughout my time in Congress, I have had the opportunity to meet with drug court clients and the criminal justice and treatment professionals who help them succeed, including the presiding judge of Snohomish County, Washington’s adult offender drug court program, George Bowden, who retired this January.“During his service, Judge Bowden helped 350 participants graduate from Snohomish County’s drug court program. Remarkably, for those who complete the program, the rate of recidivism is just 7 percent. That compares to an estimated recidivism rate of 70 to 80 percent for addicted offenders who do not receive treatment.“When Judge Bowden asked one recent graduate how her life was different now that she had completed drug court, she told him that when she started the program she was living in her car, her two children had been placed in foster care and she was unable to stop using drugs. “Following her graduation from drug court, she is clean and sober, her children have been returned to her and she is renting a new town home and supporting herself and her family as a manager at a sporting goods store.“Another successful drug court participant in my district was a habitual drug user who committed a rash of felonies prior to his interaction with the Snohomish County Drug Court Program.“Following his graduation from the program, he became the Vice President of the Snohomish County Drug Court Alumni Association, and a full-time student at Everett Community College, and he has maintained his sobriety for nearly two years.“His positive experience with drug courts has led him on a path to give back to his community to help others who are struggling with addiction. He will start classes at a four-year university where he will begin work on becoming a probation officer, so he can assist other individuals struggling to get their lives back on track.“These are just two success stories, but I’m sure the leaders here today could tell countless more from across the country. Last year alone, 20,000 people graduated from drug courts in every state in the nation.“Drug courts are also a sound investment. According to the Washington State Institute of Public Policy, investing in drug courts saves local communities between $4,000 and $12,000 per participant. “But despite these successes, funding for this vital program can be hard to find. The recession has resulted in severe cut backs for drug courts across Washington state. In Snohomish County, the Adult Drug Court has been cut by more than half from 150 participants to 60.“In Washington state and across the country, we should be expanding drug courts, not scaling them back.“Starting and sustaining drug courts is an uphill climb. Federal funding is key, which is the reason I support the NADCP’s request of $250 million per year in Drug Court funding for the next six years. I believe this critical funding will make Drug Court available to non-violent, drug-addicted offenders, putting a Drug Court within reach of every adult, juvenile, veteran and family in America who needs it.“It is also important to keep in mind that drug courts rely on state and local funding to stay afloat. Federal, state and local leaders must work together to help these critical programs succeed.“I am encouraged by President Obama’s support for drug courts, and I hope that his upcoming budget will reflect the need to invest in education, treatment, and prevention as a way to reduce the burden on our criminal justice system and provide non-violent offenders with an opportunity to turn their lives around.“Supporting the Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program will help new drug courts fight crime, save families and help drug users become healthy and productive members of society. I urge my colleagues in Congress to invest in a strategy that works for our communities and to strengthen funding for drug courts. Thank you.” ###
04.29.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after attending a meeting at which Members of Congress heard an update on the H1N1 virus, also known as swine flu, from Obama Administration Officials Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Rear Admiral Anne Schuchat, M.D., of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Acting Attending Physician Brian Monaghan. “I want to commend the Obama Administration for their efforts to communicate to Members of Congress and the public about the so-called swine flu. “Secretary Sebelius outlined the goals of the federal government’s actions: to slow down the spread of the disease and save lives. She announced that the federal government is deploying medicine from the Strategic National Stockpile to states with confirmed cases of H1N1, and that scientists are working to develop an effective vaccine. “Secretary Napolitano outlined the coordinated and comprehensive approach that the Obama Administration is taking to address the flu, emphasizing that state and local public health departments should review their plans to respond if H1N1 affects their community. She also emphasized that the U.S. response will not be driven by emotion, but by what is the most effective way to protect the American people. “Rear Admiral Schuchat emphasized that the public can get up-to-date information from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at their website www.cdc.gov, and that the CDC is tracking the virus and developing the most effective ways protect the public.“As of Wednesday afternoon, no cases of H1N1 have been identified in Washington state. I will continue to monitor this issue, and I encourage my constituents to follow the common-sense precautions outlined by President Obama, including frequent hand-washing and staying home from work or school if you become sick.” ###
04.29.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today joined Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) to announce major, bipartisan legislation to dramatically strengthen our federal investment in ferry systems nationwide, including Washington State Ferries. The Members of Congress were joined at the press conference by Washington State Ferries Director David Moseley who praised their bill, the U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009. “In Washington state and many other parts of the country, ferries connect communities to keep our economy moving,” said Rep. Larsen. “Washington State Ferries is the largest ferry system in the country and carries over 25 million riders annually. For thousands of my constituents, ferries offer the only practical way to get to work and return home. The U.S. Ferry Investment Act will strengthen our federal commitment to ferries to create jobs, invest in public safety and help build a foundation for long-term economic growth.”While ferries are the sole means of surface transportation for many constituents in Larsen’s district and other parts of the country, the federal government currently invests only one percent of federal surface transportation dollars in ferries. Additional resources are needed to help ferry systems across the country replace aging vessels and meet growing demand.“The U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009 makes a strong investment in our nation’s ferry systems, which provide a critical lifeline for millions of commuters across the country,” said Senator Patty Murray. “This bill would also give a boost to the economy by creating jobs directly, as well as by increasing productivity and making investments in long term economic growth. We understand the importance of ferries in Washington state, and I am proud to stand here with my colleagues as we work to strengthen this critical link in our nation’s transportation system.” The U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009 would strengthen the federal ferryboat program, mandating that half of federal funds be distributed by formula to help ensure that significant funding is directed to the largest and most critical public ferry systems, including Washington State Ferries. Half of the program funds would continue to be distributed on a discretionary basis. Local support for the U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act: State Senator Mary Margaret Haugen, 10th Legislative District said: “I am so pleased to see a federal commitment on the importance of our country’s marine highways. This act certainly shows the quality of leadership we have in our congressional delegation in that they were able to put this investment package together. In Washington State, the ferry routes are considered a part of the state highway system, and this act is incredibly important particularly to those areas of the state that are only accessible by ferry. Our state will certainly benefit from this program and I appreciate the dedication of our delegation in Washington DC.” Helen Price Johnson, Island County Commissioner, District 1 said: “The ferry system is the marine highway for Island County, providing commerce, linkages for emergency services, and supporting regional transportation efforts. Ferries are vital to the health and future of our island community. They also are critical for the effective transporting of goods, services and personnel to the military bases located around Puget Sound. The US Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009 will support this important segment of the national transportation system.”Nancy Conard, Mayor of Coupeville, WA said: “I am delighted that our federal representatives are recognizing the critical role that ferries play in the transportation system. Just like roads and bridges, ferries should be given equal consideration.” Mayor Paul Samuelson of Langley, WA said: “I am enormously grateful to Representative Rick Larsen and Senator Patty Murray for their attention to ferries, a critical means of transportation for the community of Langley. Langley and South Whidbey are dependent on the ferry system for resident access to jobs, transportation of goods to local businesses and for tourism. Murray and Larsen’s legislation would make a real difference for our community.” Mayor Dean Maxwell, Anacortes: "This is wonderful. I am glad that our ferries are a priority of Rep. Larsen and Senator Murray. This couldn't have come at a better time.”The U.S. Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009 would: Invest $200 million a year in funding for ferry systems across the country starting in Fiscal Year 2010, and running through Fiscal Year 2015 Mandate that half of those funds be distributed by formula to help ensure that significant funding is directed to the largest and most critical public ferry systems, including Washington State Ferries Make ferry systems eligible to compete for funding under the Clean Fuels Grant Program Establish a Ferry Joint Program Office within U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to coordinate federal programs affecting ferry and ferry facility construction, maintenance, operations and security, and to promote ferry transportation as a component of the U.S. transportation system Require U.S. DOT to ensure the National Ferry Database is consistent with the database maintained by the Federal Transit Administration Authorize funding to establish a National Ferry Transportation Institute at a college or university. The institute is directed to conduct research, training, and develop models and recommendations to improve the operation and safety of ferry systems in the United States ###
04.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today announced that the Obama Administration is awarding $100,000 to help complete the Skagit River General Investigation Study (GI), which is analyzing various flood control projects to protect citizens and infrastructure impacted from a 100-year flood of the Skagit River. “Every little bit helps,” Larsen said today. “I’m pleased that President Obama’s recovery plan is providing $100,000 to help complete the Skagit flood study so we can protect Skagit County families, farms and businesses from future floods.” Larsen has requested that Congress provide $1.3 million for the Skagit GI study in the Fiscal Year 2009 federal appropriations bill. Over the past 15 years, the Skagit River has flooded nearly every other year at a cost of tens of millions of dollars.###
04.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) delivered the following testimony today to the Highways and Transit Subcommittee regarding the major surface transportation bill the subcommittee is writing this spring. The last surface transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU, brought $4 billion to Washington state over five years, creating local jobs and improving public safety.“Mr. Chairman, thank you for the opportunity to testify before the subcommittee on behalf of my High Priority Project requests. “I look forward to working with you and Chairman Oberstar to make a significant investment in our nation’s transportation infrastructure and build a foundation for future economic growth as we rewrite the federal surface transportation legislation. “In February, President Obama and Congress took an important first step to modernize our roads, bridges and transit; create jobs; and help our economy recover by passing the economic recovery package. Recovery dollars are already going to work in Washington state and in my district.“In fact, just yesterday the Washington State Department of Transportation announced that they had obligated over 50% of their economic recovery funding – 51 days ahead of schedule. That makes Washington state one of about five or six states to obligate that much money. “In Snohomish County in my district, a project to re-pave a worn-out section of Interstate-5 has already gone out to bid and is expected to employ approximately 60 workers during construction. “In Whatcom County, the Whatcom Transportation Authority will combine economic recovery money with a federal appropriation to buy 11 new buses to help replace their aging fleet. Whatcom Transit saw the highest ridership increase in the country last year, so these new buses will help them keep up with skyrocketing ridership.“In Washington state, recovery projects are addressing pressing local needs, creating jobs, and coming in ahead of schedule and under budget.“Despite these successes, the recovery package only funds a small percentage of the investment our country needs to invest in our aging transportation infrastructure. “In Washington state, our Department of Transportation and Metropolitan Planning Organizations selected their recovery projects from lists of hundreds of shovel-ready projects.“As we write the next surface transportation bill, it is clear that our nation needs a significant investment in our transportation infrastructure to modernize our roads, bridges and transit; create jobs; and set the foundation for future economic growth. “The top transportation priorities for my district in the next authorization are highway safety, freight mobility, and ferries. In addition to pushing for specific policy changes to the current authorization, I have approached the High Priority Project process with these three issue areas in mind.“Highway safety is a top priority for my district. My district includes US Highway 2, a stretch of highway where there have been over 50 fatal accidents since 1999. The communities along this 50 mile span of US 2 and the Washington State Department of Transportation have partnered to implement safety improvement projects throughout the corridor. The US 2 Route Development Plan, or RDP, has identified over $1 billion in projects to enhance safety and reduce congestion on US 2.“In the next authorization, one of my High Priority Project requests is $10 million to construct safety improvement projects in the US 2 corridor between Snohomish and Gold Bar. This highly travelled corridor experiences a large number of fatal and injury accidents. A key priority among the possible projects is the intersection of US 2 and Bickford Avenue. This location has experienced a significant number of collisions in the last 5 years and was identified as one of the highest-rated projects on the US 2 Route Development Plan. “Freight mobility is a priority for my district and Washington State. In 2007, Washington State freight systems supported over 1 million jobs in freight-dependent industry sectors. Washington State’s transportation infrastructure – including our northern border crossings; Interstate 5; Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific rail lines; the Ports of Everett, Seattle and Tacoma; and intermodal connectors – is critical to supporting the movement of freight. “I intend to request a High Priority Project in my district to help freight move safely and efficiently across the U.S./Canada border. The Blaine Freight and Passenger Rail Improvement project will construct additional rail line capacity to keep the import and export of freight to and from Canada moving efficiently. It also provides additional siding track to allow for safer inspection of freight traffic coming into the U.S at the Swift U.S. Customs and Border Protection facility. “The additional siding track has the added advantage of allowing freight train inspections to occur off the main line, helping ensure that Amtrak Cascades passenger trains operate on time.“Ferries are top priority for my district and Washington state. Washington State Ferries is the largest ferry system in the United States and carries over 25 million riders annually. Ferries are integral to the transportation infrastructure of Washington State: they are an extension of the highway system and provide public transportation to help thousands of my constituents get to work and to return home. “I intend to request High Priority Project funding for the Anacortes Multimodal Ferry Terminal in my district. Washington State Ferries provides the only public transportation access to several of the San Juan Islands, and all these routes depart from the Anacortes Ferry Terminal. This project will replace the existing terminal building and five spans of the passenger overhead loading system and pave terminal access lanes and parking lots. “I also encourage the Subcommittee to improve and expand the overall federal investment in ferry transportation.“Tomorrow, Senator Murray and I will introduce the United States Ferry Systems Investment Act of 2009. Our legislation would make a robust investment in the federal ferryboat program. It would also mandate that half of those funds be distributed by formula to help ensure that significant funding is directed to the largest and most important public ferry systems. Half of the program funds would continue to be distributed on a discretionary basis, which would help initiate and expand ferry services throughout the country. “I believe that these changes would significantly improve the current program and provide our nation’s ferry systems with the resources they need to improve public safety, meet growing demand and create jobs to keep our economy moving. “Mr. Chairman, thank you for this opportunity to present my project requests for the next surface transportation authorization. I look forward to continuing to work with you and the rest of the Subcommittee to invest in our nation’s transportation infrastructure and set the foundation for future economic growth.” ###
04.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today asked Congress to provide federal funding for 2nd District priorities, selecting 51 of the 153 requests he received to pass on to the House Appropriations Committee. The earmarks Larsen asked Congress to fund reflect a range of local needs in all of the six counties he represents, including funding to invest in economic growth, local law enforcement and our national security. This is the second year that Larsen has made his list of earmark requests public. When Larsen released his appropriations requests last year, he went above and beyond House disclosure rules in a personal effort toward transparency for his constituents. This year, House ethics rules have followed Larsen’s voluntary efforts and now require all Members to post their requests for Fiscal Year 2010 online.“This year, as in the past, my office received a large number of earmark requests from local constituents, communities and organizations – 153 in total,” said Larsen. “After careful consideration, the 51 requests I have decided to support reflect a range of local needs and would make important investments in Northwest Washington communities and our long-term economic growth.” In reviewing community requests for earmarks, Larsen considered whether the project is a valuable use of taxpayer funds, if it meets 2nd District needs and priorities, if it is prepared to use federal funding effectively, and if it can be funded in an earmarked account. The House Appropriations Committee will evaluate all the requests it receives to determine which merit funding.“In the interest of transparency and accountability, I encourage my constituents to go online to www.house.gov/larsen to view my full list of funding requests,” said Larsen. Larsen’s requests to the Appropriations Committee are listed below, organized by the bill in which they would be funded and listed alphabetically. This list complies with House transparency rules by listing the name of the project, the entity that would receive funding, the address of the organization, and the project’s purpose.Agriculture Agriculture Research Service (ARS) Facility in Pullman P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $10 million for a United States Department of Agriculture-Agriculture Research Services (ARS) facility located in Pullman, WA to provide ARS scientists with state-of-the-art research facilities. A new USDA-ARS facility, fully integrated with the Washington State University Life Science/Biotechnology complex, will provide modern laboratories and equipment to conduct agriculture research to keep Northwest growers competitive in the global market. Agriculture is a top employer in Washington state. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S.Floriculture and Nursery Research Initiative Agriculture Research Service (ARS) Whitten Building, Room 302-A, 1400 Independence Ave Washington, D.C. $8.5 million to conduct research into the threat of imported pests that can devastate the nursery and floral industries. Floriculture and nursery crops are the third largest domestic crop in the nation. Pest and disease management research is critical to the continued success of growers in Washington state and across the country. Organic Cropping Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $500,000 for research into priorities identified by Northwest organic farmers including developing wheat varieties for organic systems, seed treatments for organic vegetable production, and studying economic trends in organic production. Several of these projects have the potential to advance sustainable agriculture on a national scale. There are nearly 700 certified organic farms in Washington state. Washington state is second in the nation in “farmgate” sales of organic products directly from the producer with $159.8 million sold.Pacific Northwest Small Fruit Center Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $500,000 for research into plant breeding, pest management, genetic research, and processing methods for small fruits. The Center helps Northwest farmers integrate scientific research into their farming and processing. Research done by the Center is focused on profitable and environmentally-responsible farming and production practices. Washington state leads the country in raspberry production and is a leading producer of other berries and grapes as well. In 2007, Washington raised 55 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $27.9 million.Protecting the Pacific Northwest Grape and Wine Industry from Plant Viruses Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $300,000 to combat the presence or spread of devastating plant viruses affecting the Grape and Wine Industry. The Washington state wine, grape and grape juice industries provide approximately 19,000 jobs and contribute $ 3 billion annually to the state’s economy. Washington is the largest producer of juice grapes and the second largest producer of premium wine grapes in the United States. Around 900 Pacific Northwest wineries depend upon the production of quality wine grapes. This project would help to ensure that planting materials entering the Northwest are virus-free, that our vineyards remain virus-free, and that we prolong the longevity of the industry.Potato Breeding Lines for Biotic and Abiotic Yield Agriculture Research Service 24106 N Bunn Rd Prosser, WA $136,000 for ongoing research at the Agriculture Research Service facility in Prosser to develop and evaluate new varieties of potatoes with special attention to disease, pest, and stress resistance, as well as yield and quality characteristics. This funding supports cooperative research with Washington State University, Oregon State University, and the University of Idaho to evaluate the genetics of seeds provided to farmers to help them plant potato crops that will succeed in their unique soil and weather conditions. (Biotic refers to living stressors, such as fungi or insects, while abiotic refers to non-living stressors, such as intense sunlight, wind or flooding) Research done in this program has a direct impact on growers throughout the region, and provides for the profitable and sustainable production of potatoes. Washington state is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all domestic potatoes. The potato industry in Washington state directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion annually and creates over 20,000 jobs. Potato Research Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $1.8 million for research to develop and commercialize new potato varieties that benefit all segments of the Northwest potato industry. These funds are critical for sustaining the potato industry and providing a healthy, inexpensive food supply for American consumers. New potato varieties help improve quality, bring increased yield, and require less fertilizer and pesticide, increasing profitability and lessening environmental impact. Washington is the second largest producer of potatoes in the U.S., producing 23 percent of all U.S. potatoes. The potato industry directly and indirectly generates over $3.4 billion throughout the Washington economy annually and creates over 20,000 jobs in the state.Small Fruits Initiative – Plant Improvement Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research 4845 B SW Dresden Ave Corvallis, OR $2.57 million for research into eliminating fruit diseases that plague small fruit crops in the Northwest, including berries and grapes. Washington State leads the nation in red raspberry production. In 2007, Washington raised 55 million pounds of red raspberries valued at $27.9 million. Funding for this center is crucial for raspberry production and other small fruit industries.Washington Agricultural Competitiveness Washington State University P.O. Box 643140 Pullman, WA $1 million to identify and expand international trade opportunities and domestic marketing opportunities for Washington state agricultural products. Washington state's $42 billion food and agriculture industry employs 160,000 people and contributes 13% percent to the state's economy. More than $14.8 billion in food and agricultural products were exported through Washington ports last year, the third largest total in the U.S. Exporting Washington agricultural goods to foreign nations and marketing our products in new domestic markets will support this important industry and create new jobs across the state.Commerce, Justice, ScienceBorder Policy Research Institute (BPRI) at Western Washington University Northern Border Policy Research 516 High Street Bellingham, WA $500,000 to fund practical research focused on augmenting U.S.-Canada Trade without Compromising Border Security. Canada and the United States form the largest bilateral trading relationship in the world, with daily two-way trade surpassing $1.6 billion. The northern border is the gateway through which this massive volume of goods must flow. It is an essential federal priority to ensure the border enhances security while not impeding commerce. Using the requested funds, the BPRI will conduct research and will produce evidence-based reports and policy tools that inform business, governments, and other stakeholders charged with improving border management processes.Multi-Jurisdictional Criminal Justice Data Integration Project Whatcom County 311 Grand Avenue Bellingham, WA $350,000 to expand and improve information sharing between Whatcom County law enforcement agencies, state and federal agencies, Canadian and U.S. border authorities, Alaska Law Enforcement, Law Enforcement Information Exchange, State Regional and Federal Enterprise Retrieval System (SRFERS) and Automated Regional Justice Information System (ARJIS) through the Whatcom Exchange Network (WENET) in preparation for the 2010 Winter Olympics. The WENET data integration program will provide law enforcement agencies with real-time data on criminal offenders, strengthening their ability to coordinate and communicate with each other and protect our community.Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative (NSMCI) Northwest Straits Commission 10441 Bayview Edison Rd Mount Vernon, WA $2.7 million to restore and protect the northwest region of Puget Sound which supports marine species and habitats that contribute directly to the economic vitality of Washington state and the country through fisheries, tourism and recreation, marine transportation, and commerce. Funding would support research, stewardship, and restoration efforts, and help remove derelict fishing nets from the marine waters of Puget Sound to protect commercially and ecologically valuable species, like salmon, rockfish, Dungeness crab, seabirds, and marine mammals.Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force 3000 Rockefeller Avenue, M/S 606 Everett, WA $70,900 to provide Snohomish County law enforcement officers with concealed cameras and vehicle trackers, critical tools to conduct drug trafficking investigations. The cameras allow for covert surveillance of drug trafficking organizations where more conventional methods have failed, enabling law enforcement to bust trafficking rings and prosecute drug dealers.Whatcom County Rapid Border Prosecution Initiative Whatcom County 311 Grand Avenue Bellingham, WA $500,000 to help the Rapid Border Prosecution Project, established in 2005, make the local criminal justice system more efficient by purchasing specialized software to interface with the existing criminal justice database. As a result, judges and professional law enforcement personnel will have more immediate access to vital information regarding offenders in the criminal justice system, which will greatly reduce the backlog of border-related prosecutions. Whatcom County bears a heavy burden processing and prosecuting cases that result from border-related crime, costing the county $2.1 million annually.Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative Pierce County Alliance 510 Tacoma Avenue South Tacoma, WA $2 million to continue a statewide, multi-disciplinary effort entailing law enforcement, specialized drug treatment and prevention components, and professional training to combat methamphetamine use in Washington state. Specific program efforts include pro-active methamphetamine lab investigations, treatment programs designed to address methamphetamine where it impacts families, and the mobilization of Meth Action Teams (MATs) to undertake local education and prevention efforts. DefenseAdvanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile Derivative Program Alliant TechSystems (ATK) 21301 Burbank Blvd Suite 100 Woodland Hills, CA $1.9 million to develop an advanced missile capable of destroying enemy air defenses more effectively than existing technology. The AARGM will be placed on Navy planes based at NAS Whidbey, protecting the lives of the sailors stationed there.Advanced Ground EW & Signals Intelligence System Agilent Technologies 1615 75th Street Everett, WA $7 million to develop advanced Electronic Warfare systems to protect soldiers from improvised explosive devises (IEDs) and other threats. Electronic Warfare is the battle to ensure that our weapons which rely on radio frequencies can operate effectively, and to deny terrorists and other enemies the ability to use their weapons which rely on radio frequencies. These weapons range from the simple to the sophisticated, and include air defense radars which help enemies identify and destroy U.S. planes, and improvised explosive devises (IEDs) which have led to significant U.S. casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan.Advanced Reconfigurable Containers Ultimate Survival Technologies 14428 167th Ave SE Monroe, WA $1.7 million to purchase light, durable, and versatile shipping containers for the Air Force. These containers will reduce the weight of Air Force freight shipments and allow warfighters in the field more options for moving their equipment in hostile environment.Department of Defense Impact Aid Department of Defense Education Agency 4040 North Fairfax Drive, Webb Bldg Arlington, VA $60 million for Department of Defense Impact Aid to support school districts which serve military families, including those in the 2nd Congressional district. This funding is needed to help school districts near military bases provide a quality education to all students, including those from military families. Families living on federal land are exempt from local property taxes, an important source of income for school districts.Electronic Warfare Technology, Doctrine, and Tactics Development Electronic Warfare Associates 3760 N Charles Porter Avenue Oak Harbor, WA $4 million to help Naval officers based at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island improve their Electronic Warfare capabilities. Electronic Warfare is the battle to ensure that our weapons which rely on radio frequencies can operate effectively, and to deny terrorists and other enemies the ability to use their weapons which rely on radio frequencies. These weapons range from the simple to the sophisticated, and include air defense radars which help enemies identify and destroy U.S. planes, and improvised explosive devises (IEDs) which have led to significant U.S. casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan. This funding will allow the Navy to continue to benefit from the expertise of civilian trainers and military retirees as they develop new electronic warfare techniques.Improved Stealth and Lower Cost Operations for US Naval Ships Using High Strength Netting Diamond Nets, Inc. 1064 East Pole Road Everson, WA $6 million to develop high-strength deck-edge netting to protect sailors on Navy ships. The netting currently used by the Navy wears out quickly due to corrosion from salt water, heat from jet engines, and UV rays.Navy Advanced Information Technology (AIT) Logistics Modernization Initiative Intermec Technologies Corporation 6001 36th Avenue West Everett, WA $6 million to help modernize the Navy’s supply chain management system at Navy supply facilities, which store and track materiel. Applying Intermec’s handheld computer technology to the Navy supply chain will increase efficiency, reduce costs and allow the Navy to track valuable supplies more accurately.Domestic Operations Response Equipment Washington Military Department Building 1, Camp Murray Camp Murray, WA $2.3 million for the Washington National Guard to purchase command and control equipment, including a vehicle and emergency shelter, to improve responses to domestic emergencies.Western Regional Counterdrug Training Center Washington Military Department Building 1, Camp Murray Camp Murray, WA $2.5 million to establish a Regional Counterdrug Training Center in Washington state. This Center will help train federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement officials in drug interdiction so they can continue to keep our communities safe from methamphetamine and other dangerous drugs.Energy and WaterColumbia River Channel Improvement Project Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $25 million to deepen the federal navigation channel from the Mouth of the Columbia River to the Portland/Vancouver area by three feet to allow ships calling on Columbia River ports to load more cargo, which will yield transportation cost savings for U.S. exporters. Elliott Bay Seawall Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $1.4 million to allow for a feasibility study of the Elliott Bay Seawall. The purpose of the study is to document the problems and opportunities associated with the seawall, and formulate plans to address them. Minor Realignment of the Lower Settling Basin, Snohomish River Federal Navigation Channel Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $1 million for the design and construction of a minor realignment of the lower (downstream) settling basin in the Snohomish River to increase the reliability of commercial and recreational navigational access in the federal channel. Maintaining adequate navigational depth in the Snohomish River is critical for the safe movement of over 1 million tons of waterborne commerce annually, and to continuing operational effectiveness of Naval Station Everett.Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Restoration Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $2 million for restoration and preservation projects identified by the Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Restoration project. Two of these projects are in my district: the Snohomish River Estuary Project to restore nearly 825 acres of estuary and enhance salmon recovery and the Nooksack River Fish Passage project to provide 26 miles of additional salmon habitat on the middle fork of the Nooksack River. Puget Sound Nearshore Marine Habitat Study Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $1.6 million to identify the most cost-effective habitat restoration projects in the nearshore, estuary and marine areas of the Puget Sound Basin, including my district. The revitalization of nearshore habitat is critical for salmon recovery efforts.Skagit River General Investigation Study Seattle Corps of Engineers 4735 East Marginal Way South Seattle, WA $1.3 million for the Skagit General Investigation (GI) study to analyze various flood control projects in order to protect citizens and infrastructure impacted from a 100-year flood event of the Skagit River. Over the past 15 years, the Skagit River has flooded nearly every other year at a cost of tens of millions of dollars. This funding request advances the GI study and will complete the Plan Formulation report including a levee analysis study, the development and analysis of alternatives through the preliminary design stage and draft NEPA documents.Interior and EnvironmentCity of Blaine Wastewater Conveyance and Pumping System City of Blaine 344 H Street Blaine, WA $1 million to design and construct a new wastewater conveyance and pumping system for the western portion of Blaine (Semiahmoo) to redirect flows to the new Lighthouse Point Water Reclamation Facility, which will eliminate sewage overflows into Drayton Harbor and allow the outdated Semiahmoo Treatment Plant to be demolished. This project will help ensure clean drinking water for residents of Blaine and the Semiahmoo community and help clean up Drayton Harbor.Grizzly Bear Preservation in the North Cascades US Fish and Wildlife Service 1849 C St NW Washington, DC $1 million for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to conduct an Environmental Impact Statement on Grizzly Bear populations in the North Cascades. This funding will help the Fish and Wildlife Service determine how best to preserve this endangered species.Mitchell Hill Land Acquisition National Parks Service 1849 C St NW Washington, DC $6 million for the National Parks Service to purchase 320 acres of Washington State Department of Natural Resources land near Mitchell Hill. This funding will protect this land from development and enhance recreational opportunities for visitors to San Juan Island National Historical Park.Water Main Replacement Project Startup Water District PO Box 114 Startup, WA $2 million for the engineering and construction of the water main replacement project to replace Startup's water mains, which are at the end of their useful life and are leeching asbestos into the drinking water.Wastewater Treatment Facility Upgrade City of Sultan PO Box 1199 Sultan, Washington $1.3 million for design, equipment purchase, and permit requirements for the wastewater treatment facility upgrade, which will support increased population growth and improve the water quality of the Skykomish River.Wild Sky Wilderness Protection U.S. Forest Service 201 14th Street SW Washington, DC $3.3 million for the Forest Service to purchase and protect privately-held land within the Mount-Baker Snoqualmie National Forest, adjacent to the Wild Sky Wilderness area. This acquisition will help preserve vital endangered species habitat and recreational opportunities in and around the Wild Sky Wilderness area which could be threatened by development.Labor, Health and Human ServicesBehavioral Health Center at Skagit Valley Hospital Skagit Valley Hospital 1415 East Kincaid Mount Vernon, WA $750,000 to complete construction and purchase equipment for a new Behavioral Health Center at Skagit Valley Hospital to serve the acute mental health needs of the Skagit County community. The current facility is not adequate to meet the local need for mental health care services and does not have the capacity to provide necessary treatment options. Providence Regional Medical Center Everett Emergency Department Expansion Providence Regional Medical Center Everett 1321 Colby Avenue Everett, WA $1 million to help expand Providence Everett’s emergency department, providing a larger emergency facility to meet the growing needs of Snohomish County's underserved population.Mount Vernon School District Life Safety Improvements Mt. Vernon School District 124 East Lawrence Street Mount Vernon, WA $750,000 to protect kids in the case of a fire or natural disaster by installing fire sprinklers throughout the Mount Vernon High School gymnasium and bringing the school in compliance with seismic safety standards by making structural modifications to the walls and roof.St. Joseph's Hospital Emergency Preparedness St. Joseph's Hospital/Peace Health 2901 Squalicum Parkway Bellingham, WA $1 million to enhance emergency power, water and air supplies as well as to increase hospital security capabilities, to ensure the viability of the only major hospital in Whatcom County in the case of a disaster or mass casualty event. Military ConstructionSmall Craft Launch Naval Station Everett 2000 West Marine View Dr Everett, WA $2.62 million to construct a small boat launch at Naval Station Everett. Currently, Navy and Coast Guard personnel must tow the boats to a public marina when they need to launch them for security reasons or to respond to an environmental spill. This wastes time and fuel and hurts fleet readiness. Transportation, Housing and Urban DevelopmentAnderson Laventure Extension Project Skagit County 1800 Continental Place Mount Vernon, WA $2.5 million to construct a new arterial roadway connecting South Laventure Road, an existing north-south arterial in eastern Mount Vernon, to the Anderson Road freeway interchange. This will ease congestion on Interstate-5 and provide an alternative route in the rapidly developing areas of eastern Mount Vernon.Birdsey Minkler Civic Center Town of Lyman 8405 S. Main Street Lyman, WA $500,000 to help the Town of Lyman acquire the historic Minkler Mansion and convert it to a town hall and community service delivery center, which provides services for low-income families including the Women, Infant and Children (WIC) program, maternity support services, legal assistance, energy assistance, medical assistance, literacy support, and a teen clinic.Broadway Bridge Replacement Project City of Everett 3200 Cedar Street Everett, WA $3.3 million to begin construction of a new bridge to replace the 97 year old Broadway Bridge. Last year, the City of Everett discovered that the Broadway Bridge is structurally deficient. It must be replaced as soon as possible because the span is a critical access point joining the region’s primary transportation corridors to Everett’s Central Business District, the Port of Everett and Naval Station Everett. The bridge also crosses the BNSF rail mainline, so a collapse would have a significant impact to the region’s rail infrastructure and economy. Chuckanut Park and Ride Facility Skagit Transit 600 County Shop Lane Burlington, WA $3.2 million to construct the Chuckanut Park and Ride Facility, which will offer an additional 350 parking spaces and provide connections to three regional transit providers. Currently all of Skagit Transit’s park and rides are being used to their maximum capacities and demand for more parking spaces is extremely high. Dawson Place Child Advocacy Center Snohomish County 3000 Rockefeller Avenue Everett, WA $1 million to help Dawson Place acquire property to provide a permanent home for its work providing services to sexually and physically abused children and their families and caregivers. 116th Street NE Interchange Improvements Project The Tulalip Tribes 8802 27th Ave NE Tulalip, WA $2 million to make major improvements to the Interstate 5/ 116th Street NE interchange in Marysville to improve traffic flow, enhance driver safety and support increased economic development and economic growth in North Snohomish County. New Ferry Vessel Propulsion Systems Washington State Department of Transportation 310 Maple Park Ave SE Olympia, WA $2 million to help Washington State Ferries, which serves 25 million riders annually, purchase propulsion systems and generators for new passenger-auto ferries to accommodate increased ridership and meet public need.Northwest Center of Environmental, Fisheries, and Aquaculture Sciences City of Bellingham 210 Lottie Street Bellingham, WA $1 million to help Bellingham Technical College (BTC) construct a new facility for their Fisheries Technology Program which trains technicians to restore, expand and sustain habitat and wild salmon runs and aquaculture (seafood cultivation) in Puget Sound. The current building has severe structural problems which make any renovation impossible, and federal funding would help BTC construct a new facility located on City of Bellingham land. Slater Road Flood Elevation Project Lummi Nation 2616 Kwina Road Bellingham, WA $3 million to elevate approximately 1,900 feet of existing roadway and construct a 389 foot long bridge in a section of Slater Road that is vulnerable to flooding. Frequent and sustained flooding severely limits access to the areas and communities served by Slater Road, including the Lummi Indian Reservation, the Conoco Phillips Cherry Point Refinery and unincorporated areas of Whatcom County. US 2 Corridor Safety Improvements Washington State Department of Transportation 310 Maple Park Ave SE Olympia, WA $2 million to construct safety improvement projects on the U.S. Highway 2 corridor between Snohomish and Skykomish, a dangerous stretch of highway where there have been over 50 fatal accidents since 1999. ###
04.02.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House floor today in support of the Democratic budget resolution for the next fiscal year. Below are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery.“Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to oppose the substitute budget before us and express my strong support for the resolution passed by the Budget Committee. Our budget puts President Obama’s plan to invest in our nation’s priorities into action.“Our budget is part of a comprehensive approach to create jobs and build the foundation for our country’s long-term economic strength. Congress and the Administration have already taken action to save or create 3.5 million jobs, keep families in their homes, and stabilize our financial markets. “The economy is clearly job #1. President Obama inherited an economic mess from the last Administration—including a record deficit and soaring unemployment. “It will take time, hard work and difficult choices for us to get past this economic and fiscal crisis and move America in a New Direction.“I hosted Town Talks with 200 of my constituents in Marysville and Lake Stevens, Washington over the weekend, and let me tell you, they are worried about the economy and they are ready for a new direction. “President Obama and Chairman Spratt have proposed a budget resolution that moves our country in the right direction by investing in clean energy, education, and affordable health care for families and businesses. “This budget also invests in our nation’s national security. It provides a 3.8% funding increase for the Department of Defense to keep our country safe and support our service members and their families.“And for the first time, the President’s Budget includes an honest, transparent accounting of the cost of sustaining our wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.“Our budget also cuts the deficit by nearly two-thirds by 2013. It cuts taxes for working families by $1.5 trillion. And it creates jobs with targeted investments and reforms in health care, energy, and education.“The Republican substitute does the opposite, cutting the investments we need to strengthen our economy for the long-term. Instead of moving us in the new direction we need, the Republican substitute relies on the failed approaches of the past. “I urge my colleagues to oppose this Substitute Budget and support President Obama’s and Chairman Spratt’s Budget Resolution. "Thank you. I yield the rest of my time.” ###
04.01.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the Congressional U.S.-China Working Group, released the following statement today following a meeting between President Barack Obama and President Hu Jintao of China at the G20 Financial Summit in London at which they announced points of agreement for U.S.-China engagement. “I applaud the agreement announced today by President Obama and President Hu to build a cooperative and comprehensive U.S.-China relationship for the 21st century. “Our relationship with China will be the most important diplomatic relationship of the 21st century. The Strategic and Economic Dialogue announced today is a great step forward and recognizes the value of continuing and expanding high-level conversations on critical issues to both of our nations. “While the previous Strategic Economic Dialogue represented important progress in strengthening engagement between the United States and China, the new Strategic and Economic Dialogue announced today brings a comprehensive approach to the bilateral relationship.“Most notably, the establishment of a high-level military-to-military relationship is commendable and represents an important step forward for the security and stability of our two nations and countries around the world. “I am also pleased that the United States and China agreed to intensify dialogue and cooperation regarding energy and climate change. “Moreover, I commend the two presidents for pledging to work together on the greatest challenge we currently face – the global recession. Our shared commitment to economic recovery and a stronger international financial system is critical to preventing another crisis like this one from happening again. “In May, I will be leading a delegation to China with my colleague Congressman Mark Kirk. I look forward to working with my colleagues and our counterparts in China to build on the cooperative, comprehensive agenda announced today by President Obama and President Hu.” The bipartisan Congressional U.S.-China Working Group educates Members of Congress on U.S.-China issues through meetings and briefings with academic, business and political leaders from the United States and China.###
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) praised the Obama Administration’s announcement today of $30 million in economic recovery funds to complete the Peace Arch construction project in Whatcom County. “President Obama’s recovery plan is putting people to work to make our common border with Canada more secure and efficient,” said Larsen, who visited the Peace Arch construction site on Friday. “I am thrilled that the economic recovery plan will help make our border more efficient to spur trade, create jobs, and help get our economy moving.” Larsen is co-chair of the Governor’s 2010 Olympics Task Force and has been working with his colleagues at the local, state and federal level – as well as with Canadian leaders – to prepare for the 2010 Olympics and the 2009 Police and Fire Games in Vancouver, British Columbia. The General Services Administration (GSA) has committed to providing 10 booths at the border at the Games, a commitment that the funding announced today will help fulfill. One in three jobs in Washington state depend on trade. At the Peace Arch Crossing, nearly 1.7 million people cross the border annually. Nearly $600 billion in goods cross the Northern border each year. ###
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today the House passed bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Fred Upton (MI-06) to crack down on the bulk sale of dextromethorphan (DXM), an ingredient of cough syrup that taken in extremely large quantities produces a hallucinogenic high and can cause brain damage, seizures and death. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 407 to 8 and must clear the Senate before it can be signed into law. “Four years ago, two teenagers in Whatcom County died after overdosing on DXM they purchased online,” said Larsen. “Kids today continue to have easy access to large quantities of this dangerous drug. Banning the bulk sale of DXM on the Internet is a commonsense step that will save lives.”The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2009 will help prevent the abuse of the drug by making it illegal to distribute unfinished DXM to a person or company not previously registered with the FDA or approved under federal or state law. Larsen and Upton’s bipartisan legislation passed the House in both the 109th Congress (December 2006) and the 110th Congress (October 2007) but failed to clear the Senate. With research indicating that more kids than ever are abusing cough medicine, Upton and Larsen are optimistic that the bill will finally gain enough support to become law. “The deadly reality is that our teens think that it’s safe to get high off of DXM because it is a common ingredient in cough syrup – the passage of the DXM bill in the House is an important step in shattering that myth,” said Upton. “This is too important an issue not to get done – kids’ lives literally hang in the balance and I urge the Senate to swiftly follow suit. This commonsense piece of legislation will put an end to the bulk sale of DXM over the Internet, and keep our kids safe from the dangers of this type of drug abuse.”DXM is a non-narcotic cough suppressant used in many over-the-counter cough and cold medicines. While medicines containing DXM are used safely by millions of Americans each year, DXM can be deadly when taken in extremely large quantities. “The abuse of dextromethorphan has lead to the deaths of young people across the country. Whatcom County suffered the loss of two teenagers who purchased the drug from a supplier in Indiana through use of the Internet,” said Whatcom County Sheriff Bill Elfo, who investigated the DXM overdoses in Larsen’s district in Washington state. “The ready availability of this drug is attributable to inadequate controls. Congressman Larsen and his colleagues have shown true leadership in their pursuit of regulations that will better control the distribution of this product.” Studies have shown that teenagers are obtaining unfinished DXM to get high by consuming large amounts of the powder or mixing it with alcohol. Research indicates that abuse of DXM has increased sharply in recent years. Last month, the Partnership for a Drug-Free America announced the findings of its 20th annual teen study which revealed nearly 7 percent or 1.7 million teens have used cough medicines to get high in the past year. ###
03.27.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after President Barack Obama’s announcement today of a coordinated plan for Afghanistan and Pakistan. Larsen traveled to Afghanistan over Thanksgiving, visiting with U.S. troops serving there and addressing how the United States and our allies can achieve success. “Today’s announcement shows that President Obama and his team have conducted a thorough and comprehensive review of our policy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. President Obama’s review makes it clear that success in Afghanistan will require a substantial and sustained commitment from the United States military, civilian agencies, and our allies around the world. Our immediate goal must be to deny safe havens to terrorists who would do us harm.“In Afghanistan, the United States military must combine police training with anti-corruption and reconstruction efforts. The Afghan National Army (ANA) must increase in size and capability so the Afghan government can control its own security. Our commitment must be more than military and will require a surge of civilian experts in agriculture and education, engineering and law to help rebuild Afghanistan.“President Obama made it clear that he will “not blindly stay the course”, but hold ourselves accountable for progress on clear benchmarks. These include training Afghan Security Forces, routing out insurgents, strengthening Afghanistan’s economy and government and dismantling the production of narcotics.“President Obama also made it clear that we can talk about Afghanistan and Pakistan separately, but we cannot deal with them separately. The President’s comprehensive plan brings a coordinated approach to this volatile region.“In Pakistan, U.S. military assistance is necessary but not sufficient. We need the Pakistan Army to intensify their focus on counterinsurgency operations to eliminate Al Qaida safe havens, particularly in the ungoverned areas in northwest Pakistan. “President’s Obama’s plan is an important step to defend America and ensure that the Afghanistan-Pakistan region does not remain a safe-haven for the terrorists responsible for the September 11th attacks. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues on the House Armed Services to support the men and women of our military serving in this region, and to provide oversight of the President’s coordinated strategy.” ###
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, the Obama Administration announced more than $8 million in economic recovery funds for local governments in the 2nd Congressional District to spend on energy efficiency projects. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) worked to pass the Recovery Act and pushed to include funding for the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program. “President Obama’s recovery plan is going to work in Northwest Washington to invest in energy efficiency, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and get our economy moving again,” Larsen said today. Larsen and his colleague Rep. Norm Dicks (WA-06) worked to include resources for energy efficiency grants in the economic recovery package. In a December letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Larsen and Dicks wrote, “We encourage you to support additional funding for the Energy Efficiency Block Grant program which will help state and local governments continue to invest in energy efficiency during this difficult time for our economy.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was signed into law by President Barack Obama on February 17th. The legislation will deliver $3.2 billion nationally for the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program, which provides resources for projects that reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions. The recovery act also invests home weatherization, which includes adding insulation, sealing leaks and modernizing heating and air conditioning equipment, investments that pay off in lower energy costs. The following federal recovery funds were announced today: Bellingham $780,100 Everett $1,045,400 Skagit County $495,100 Snohomish County $4,828,400 Whatcom County $470,000 Lummi Tribe of the Lummi Reservation, Washington $238300 Nooksack Indian Tribe of Washington $62,900 Samish Indian Tribe, Washington $73,900 Sauk-Suiattle Indian Tribe of Washington $25,000 Snoqualmie Tribe, Washington $49,500 Stillaguamish Tribe of Washington $26,400 Swinomish Indians of the Swinomish Reservation, Washington $38,300 Tulalip Tribes of the Tulalip Reservation, Washington $208,000 Upper Skagit Indian Tribe of Washington $33,300 Total: $8,374,600 ###
03.25.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Budget and Armed Services Committees, delivered the following remarks today at a Budget Committee markup of the budget resolution for the next fiscal year.“Mr. Chairman, earlier this year, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. This legislation is already creating jobs, building a foundation for future growth, and helping those getting hit the hardest in today’s economy.“This budget resolution will continue to move our country in the right direction by investing in renewable energy, education, and health care. It is a key step in making President Obama’s plan to invest in our nation's priorities a reality.“I will focus my remarks on this budget’s investment in national security. This budget resolution provides a 3.8% funding increase for the Department of Defense to keep our country safe and support our service members and their families.“And for the first time, the President’s Budget includes an honest, transparent accounting of the cost of sustaining our wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.“Secretary Gates applauded President Obama’s investment national defense, saying “I'm confident that this funding level will allow the department to meet its long term institutional priorities of taking care of the troops and their families, rebalancing our capabilities for conventional and irregular warfare, completing the growth of the Army and Marine Corps, and preserving essential modernization programs.”“Even with the budget increase we are considering today, Secretary Gates has said the Department of Defense cannot buy everything and do everything. The previous Administration left us with defense spending plans that are unrealistic and unsustainable, and we need to make tough choices in the coming years. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I know we will be up to the task. “The Administration and Congress must also work to ensure responsible investments in national security by making acquisition reform a top priority. Last week, the Government Accountability Office testified that the Department of Defense’s 95 major weapons programs were $295 billion over budget and on average 21 months behind schedule. This is unacceptable and must be fixed.“This Committee and the House Armed Services Committee will provide the oversight and accountability that our nation’s taxpayers deserve over each taxpayer dollar, even those that go to the Pentagon.“Thank you for the opportunity to speak today, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
03.25.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, and John Sullivan (OK-01) this week re-introduced their bipartisan legislation, The Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act, to educate kids about one of the many dangers of methamphetamine abuse: meth mouth, a disease that takes a terrible toll on the teeth and mouths of meth users. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate earlier this month. “Dentists in my district have treated patients as young as 18 years old whose teeth have been completely destroyed by methamphetamine use,” said Larsen. “Meth rots away your teeth, putting kids still in their teens in dentures. That is a powerful message to communicate to our kids – if they could see what dentists see every day at the clinic, no one would do meth.”“Methamphetamine use is quickly becoming an epidemic in our nation and an unforeseen consequence of this has been the growing need for costly dental care,” Sullivan said. “By helping the dental community to target young people, we can open their eyes to the dark side of meth use before they try it. Meth use is of particular concern in Oklahoma, as meth accounts for nearly 90% of all drug cases in the Midwest. I am proud to partner with my colleague, Congressman Larsen, on this important bipartisan measure to combat meth mouth in our nation and communities.”Few studies have been published about meth mouth, but law enforcement officers and treatment providers report that meth mouth is common among meth users. In 2007, the Washington State Department of Corrections found that approximately 40 percent of their annual inmate dental budget goes toward treating patients with meth mouth. More than 2,000 cases of meth mouth have been seen at the Washington State Reformatory in Monroe, Washington alone. Dental problems are common among drug users. Many do not care for their teeth regularly and most do not see a dentist often. But methamphetamine takes a unique and horrific toll on the mouths of those who use it. Meth mouth is characterized by broken, discolored and rotting teeth. More research is needed, but it is believed that methamphetamine use dries out the salivary glands, allowing the mouth's acids to disintegrate the teeth. Further damage is done when users compulsively grind their teeth, crave and binge on sugary drinks and food due to meth use, and neglect brushing and flossing for long periods of time, a common occurrence for meth users. The Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act would — Establish a grant program to educate 12 to 17 year-olds about meth mouth and help prevent first-time methamphetamine use Support clinical and public health research to study the connections between substance abuse and oral health Educate dentists about substance abuse disorders to improve patient care (According to the ADA, the use of certain therapeutic agents in dental treatment can jeopardize the health and affect the relapse potential of patients with substance use disorders, yet screening patients for substance abuse is not a common practice among dentists.) To view pictures of teeth destroyed by meth mouth and for more information, visit the Partnership for a Drug-Free America’s website https://www.drugfree.org/Portal/DrugIssue/MethResources/meth_mouth.html. ###
03.19.2009	Washington, D.C. — Following extraordinary abuses of the public trust by companies that awarded exorbitant bonuses while receiving billions in taxpayer help, the House of Representatives today passed the Bonus Recoupment Tax Bill (HR 1586), legislation to recover taxpayer dollars by imposing a new 90 percent income tax on bonuses awarded by companies such as AIG that have received over $5 billion from the financial rescue package (TARP). The bill passed by a margin of 328 – 93, and must pass the Senate before it could be signed into law.“American taxpayers should not foot the bill to pay huge bonuses to the same people whose greed and recklessness helped create the financial crisis,” said U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) after voting for the legislation. “My constituents are hurting in this recession and making sacrifices every day. They demand fairness and they deserve to know that their money is being spent in the public interest and not for private gain.” The tax applies to retention payments, incentive payments and other bonuses that were awarded after December 31, 2008 and received by individuals with adjusted gross income over $250,000. It does not apply to any bonus returned to a company in the same taxable year.“Moving forward, we must put in place appropriate regulations for our financial markets so we never face a crisis like this one again.” ###
03.18.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today introduced legislation to designate Illabot Creek in Skagit County as a Wild and Scenic River. The legislation will protect the free-flowing character of Illabot Creek, an important habitat for threatened wild Chinook salmon, steelhead, bull trout and other wildlife, while maintaining recreational opportunities such as hunting and fishing. Larsen and Murray’s legislation has broad local support from elected officials, environmentalists, fishermen, agriculture, and other stakeholders. “A Wild and Scenic designation for Illabot Creek will protect this critical habitat for salmon, eagles and other species while preserving fishing, hunting and recreational opportunities for generations to come,” said Larsen. “Our legislation has strong support in Skagit County and I look forward to working with Senator Murray to build strong support for Illabot Creek in Congress. First, we did Wild Sky…next stop, a Wild and Scenic Illabot.” For more than 7 years, Larsen and Murray worked together to pass the Wild Sky Wilderness Act, which became law in May, 2008 protecting 106,577 acres of national forest in East Snohomish County and creating the first new Wilderness area in Washington state in 20 years.“This is another step toward protecting the natural resources that set our state apart,” said Senator Murray. “Preserving Illabot Creek means protecting stream flows and water quality - resources that are vitally important to the many fish and wildlife that depend on the creek. For years, volunteers have dedicated their time to protect this delicate habitat. I’m pleased to be a federal partner in this effort to ensure this pristine creek is protected for generations to come.” Illabot Creek flows for 14.3 miles through Skagit County, starting at Snow King Mountain 7,500 feet up in the Cascades and tumbling down to join the Skagit River at 500 feet above sea level. Illabot Creek provides crucial spawning habitat for the wild Chinook salmon, steelhead and bull trout, all threatened species, and is home to numerous other species including bald eagles that roost along the creek.“Illabot Creek is so important for salmon, the lifeblood of the Pacific Northwest,” said Karen Anderson, Washington state director for The Nature Conservancy. “By introducing this legislation to designate Illabot Creek as a Wild and Scenic River, Rep. Larsen and Sen. Murray are taking an important step to ensure salmon and the eagles that feed on them will thrive long into the future, and to protect the quality of life for people all around Puget Sound and in the state of Washington. It’s a legacy that will live on for generations.” According to The Nature Conservancy, the Skagit River watershed supports one of the largest concentrations of wintering bald eagles in the lower 48 states. Because of the abundance of salmon and the high quality of habitat, Illabot Creek is the center of foraging activity and supports two communal night roosts. One roost area is within the existing Skagit Wild and Scenic River corridor. The second is within the proposed Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River designation.“The Skagit County Board of commissioners would like to acknowledge its full support for federal designation of the Illabot Creek (a tributary to the Skagit River Wild and Scenic River in the eastern portion of Skagit County) as a Wild and Scenic River,” wrote the Commissioners in a letter of support. “Illabot Creek provides exceptional spawning and rearing habitat for many species of native salmon and trout, several of which are federally listed under the Endangered Species Act.”“Illabot Creek is important to the health of the Skagit River as a whole, and to the health of Puget Sound. If we are to restore salmon runs in Puget Sound we must protect streams like Illabot Creek,” said Bonnie Rice, American Rivers Associate Director of Conservation. “Wild and Scenic River designation will permanently protect Illabot Creek for salmon, wildlife and future generations, and we applaud Representative Larsen and Senator Murray for their leadership in introducing this legislation.” The National Wild and Scenic Rivers System was created by Congress in 1968 to preserve certain rivers of outstanding value in a free-flowing condition for future generations. The Illabot Creek Wild and Scenic River Act will prohibit dams and other water projects that impair the free-flowing nature of a river and establish a protected corridor extending one-quarter mile from the ordinary high-water mark on both sides of the river. Designating Illabot Creek as a National Wild and Scenic River will complement other local habitat protection and salmon and trout recovery efforts that are underway in the Skagit basin.“Native salmon, trout and other species depend on Illabot Creek to survive,” said Patrick O'Hearn, President of the Fidalgo Fly Fishers. “We are committed to protecting critical habitat like Illabot Creek to preserve our wild fish populations not just for today’s fishermen but for the health of Puget Sound now and in years to come. We wholeheartedly support designating Illabot Creek as a Wild and Scenic River.”“Where Illabot Creek meets the Skagit River is critical habitat for salmon, so it’s vitally important we protect the headwaters of the creek,” said Alison Studley, Executive Director of the Skagit Fisheries Enhancement Group. “We are very supportive of getting Illabot Creek protected and restored for the recovery of salmon species in the Skagit River and all of Puget Sound.”“The Western Washington Agricultural Association and the farming community support actions like the Illabot Wild and Scenic designation that bring together the many stakeholders involved in the Skagit Watershed,” said Mike Shelby, Executive Director of the Western Washington Agricultural Association. “Protection of our natural resources is critically important and must be accomplished in a collaborative process that protects individual property rights while maintaining and protecting this important watershed.”The legislation has the support of: Skagit County Commissioners Skagit Fisheries Enhancement Group Skagit Land Trust Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife Washington Department of Natural Resources Western Washington Agriculture Association Washington Council of Trout Unlimited Washington Recreational River Runners American Whitewater Federation of Fly Fishers Seattle City Light American Rivers Fidalgo Fly Fishers Paddle Trails Canoe Club The Mountaineers Washington Kayak Club Wild Fish Conservancy Chinook Expeditions Seattle Raft and Kayak The Nature ConservancyAccording to The Nature Conservancy, Illabot Creek and the surrounding area home to the following species: Chinook salmon, Chum salmon, Coho salmon, Pink salmon, Sockeye salmon, Steelhead trout, Bull trout, Cutthroat trout, Marten, Roosevelt elk, Western toad, Bald eagle, Band-tailed pigeon, Blue grouse, Kestrel, Marbled murrelet, Northern spotted owl, Olive-sided flycatcher, Osprey, Pacific slope flycatcher, Peregrine falcon, Rufous hummingbird, Townsend’s warbler, Western wood peewee, Willow flycatcher ###
03.18.2009	The housing crisis is at the center of this recession and it affects every one of us. But help for homeowners is here — on March 4, President Obama’s housing plan went into action to help as many as 9 million American families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes.In the 2nd Congressional District, Snohomish County has been the hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis, with 478 properties — 1 in every 576 homes — in foreclosure as of February, according to RealtyTrac.com.President Obama’s plan offers assistance to homeowners who are making a good faith effort to keep current with their mortgage payments. Homeowners participating in the program can lower their mortgage payments, stay in their homes, and avoid foreclosure. To learn more about the President’s plan and find out if you are eligible for help, visit www.financialstability.gov/makinghomeaffordableEarlier this month, I voted to put the President’s housing plan into action and make it easier for families facing foreclosure to get help. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (H.R. 1106) restores fairness for middle-class families facing foreclosure on their only home by allowing judges to modify their mortgages, giving these homeowners the same rights under bankruptcy law as someone who owns two or more homes. The housing bill includes strict safeguards to ensure that bankruptcy judges can only modify mortgages if a family has exhausted all other options.Meeting with President Obama at the White HouseLast week, I had the opportunity to meet with President Obama at the White House, along with a number of my colleagues from Congress. We discussed the historic challenges our country faces and how we can work together to overcome them. We talked about the President’s plan to invest in our national priorities. President Obama’s plan: Invests in renewable energy to create jobs and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Makes long-term investments in our kids’ education. Reduces the cost of health care for families and small businesses. We have a lot of work to do to reach these goals, but I am confident that we will meet them together.Creating Jobs in Snohomish CountyWhen I met with President Obama, we also discussed his plan for economic recovery. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which the President signed into law on Feb. 17, will create save or create 3.5 million jobs (including 8,500 here in Washington state’s 2nd Congressional District), set a foundation for economic recovery and long-term growth and help our neighbors hard hit by the recession.Your economic recovery dollars are already going to work here in Snohomish County. To modernize local roads and bridges and improve public safety, President Obama’s recovery plan provides more than $17 million for transportation projects in the 2nd Congressional District. Governor Chris Gregoire and the Puget Sound Regional Council have announced projects that will receive federal funding under the recovery plan. Recovery projects include $3.5 million to complete an alternate route for truck traffic to bypass downtown Granite Falls, improving safety for drivers and pedestrians, and $2.5 million to install traffic cameras, electronic message signs, and traffic sensors along I-5 in Marysville.The economic recovery plan delivers help for cash-strapped school districts, including more than $44 million for the 2nd Congressional District. The Marysville School District will also receive funding from the $100 million for Impact Aid, which provides federal help for communities like Marysville that serve a large number of military families.The President’s recovery plan will help Snohomish county service providers serve our neighbors in need. Among other resources, the recovery plan will soon deliver more than $27,000 to help Snohomish County food banks feed local families – that’s just a down payment on the $2 million in economic recovery dollars going to food banks across Washington state.The President’s recovery plan is an important step to getting our economy back on track. Moving forward, we have to work together — the federal government, states, cities, counties and citizens — to make sure that recovery dollars are spent responsibly and efficiently. We must also put in place appropriate regulations for our financial markets so we never face an economic crisis like this one again.U.S. Representative Rick Larsen represents Washington’s 2nd congressional district in the U.S. Congress. He is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the House Hunger Caucus.
03.18.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today following news reports that the American International Group (AIG) has moved to pay $165 million in bonuses to its employees, including $1 million or more to 73 people in its financial products division whose actions played a major role in the company’s failure. “I have said in the past that if I could bottle all the righteous indignation in Washington, D.C. and sell it for 10 bucks a bottle, I could retire and live on it forever. But if there was ever a time for righteous indignation, this is it. “The idea that taxpayers should foot the bill for huge bonuses for the same people whose greed and recklessness helped create the financial crisis is beyond the pale. “Americans are hurting. They are feeling the pain of the recession and they are making sacrifices every day. They demand fairness and they deserve to know that their money is being spent in the public interest and not for private gain. “That is why righteous indignation isn't enough. We need action.”“President Obama has called to block these bonuses and House leadership has moved to recoup any public dollars that have been misspent by companies -- such as AIG -- that are staying afloat with taxpayer help.“I support action to block these outrageous bonuses and ensure that financial rescue dollars that have been misspent are returned to the U.S. Treasury.” ###
03.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — Today, Governor Chris Gregoire announced a list of city and county transportation projects designated to receive federal funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, including more than $17 million for the 2nd Congressional District in Northwest Washington. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) worked to pass the Recovery Act, which was signed into law by President Barack Obama last month. “President Obama’s recovery plan is putting people to work modernizing Washington’s roads and bridges, improving public safety, and getting our economy moving again,” said Larsen. “From Blaine to Mukilteo, from Lopez Island to Granite Falls, your recovery dollars are going to work.” The selection of the following projects endorses them as having met the federal requirements to receive federal recovery funds: Location Project Type Funding 188th Street Pedestrian Trail (TE) Multi User Trail $122,000 Bellingham 2009 Pedestrian Crossing Safety ($128,448 TE) Pedestrian Improvement $349,948 Blaine Boblett Street Access Improvement $348,000 Everett Holly Dr. Non-Motorized Improvements (TE) Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvements $750,000 Ferndale 2nd Avenue Preservation/Safety $330,000 Island Co. Ault Field Road Widening Preservation $487,009 Island Co. Bicycle Touring Enhancement (TE) Safety Improvement $750,000 Island Co. Roadway Preservation Preservation $360,000 La Conner Maple Street Overlay and Sidewalks Preservation and Pedestrian Improvement $267,000 Lummi Nation Haxton Way/Red River Pedestrian Path Pedestrian Improvement $250,000 Lynden Grover Street Multi User Trail $1,000,000 Marysville Street Overlay Project Preservation $500,000 Mount Vernon Laventure/Anderson Extension (Phase 1-Fowler to Blackburn) Freight/Safety $1,309,000 Mukilteo Harbour Pointe Blvd. Street Reconstruction Preservation $1,100,000 Port of Everett W Marine View Dr Roadway Ped/Bike Corridor Improv (11th to 16th) Bicycle and Pedestrian Improvements $1,900,000 San Juan Co. Fisherman Bay Road Safety Improvement $359,623 Sedro-Woolley Fruitdale/McGarigle Road Project & SR9/Township Sidewalk Preservation/Safety $500,000 Sedro-Woolley SR9 Pedestrian/Bicycle Safety Improvement Project (TE) Preservation $379,000 Snohomish County Granite Falls Access Route Freight $3,500,000 Stanwood 68th Road Realignment and School Safety Improvement Project Access & Pedestrian Safety $750,000 Tulalip Tribes/Snohomish County 116th/34th Ave NE Fish Passage Culvert Improvement/Preservation $2,000,000 Whatcom Co. Scott Ditch Bridge Preservation $158,643 $17,470,223
03.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined Vice President Joe Biden, Jo Strang, Acting Federal Railroad Administrator and Members of Congress at Union Station in Washington, D.C. to announce $1.3 billion in Recovery Act grant funding to expand passenger rail capacity. According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding will roughly double the size of Amtrak’s capital investment program over a two-year period. Funds will be used to upgrade railroad assets and infrastructure and for capital projects that expand passenger rail service. Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery follow: “Vice President Biden, my colleagues from the House and Senate, it’s an honor to join you here today to celebrate the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and its historic investment in Amtrak. “When Americans think Amtrak, they usually think of the Northeast corridor. But Amtrak is critical for the West Coast as well: it connects small towns to urban centers, links cities, states and provinces, and yes, Mr. Vice President, helps people get to work everyday. “As proof that Amtrak goes through more than one Washington, in Washington state we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of Amtrak Cascades passenger rail service. Amtrak Cascades provides fast, reliable service along the I-5 corridor from Portland to Vancouver. “Last year, this route carried more passengers than ever before –more than 774,000 people in total, a 14 percent increase over the previous year. “Amtrak Cascades service has grown to four daily round-trips between Portland and Seattle and one daily round-trip between Seattle and Vancouver, B.C. This route is particularly important to my district in Northwest Washington, and I am working with Governor Chris Gregoire and the Canadian Government to get a second train up and running in time for the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver. “Washington State ranks second, behind only California, in our state support for Amtrak. Since 1999, we have invested $137 million in capital rail improvements to modernize trains, tracks and stations. “And with ridership expanding, investments in Amtrak are more important than ever. Economic Recovery funds will go to work in my state and across the country to create jobs, improve rail safety and make Amtrak more efficient.“These dollars are just a down payment. With the strong support of President Obama and Vice President Biden, we can look forward to a more efficient and robust passenger rail system, which will decrease congestion on our highways and contribute to a cleaner environment for our children.“Thank you again for inviting me to be here today.” ###
03.11.2009	Washington, D.C. — On Tuesday night, Congress cleared the 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act which will fund the federal government through September 30. The legislation passed the House on February 25. President Obama has said he will sign the bill into law. “As President Obama said today, this bill may not be perfect, but it is urgently needed to fund many of our national priorities, from law enforcement to education to health care,” said U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02). “The omnibus funds important local priorities as well, and invests in local initiatives to create jobs, strengthen law enforcement, provide clean drinking water, improve public safety and get our economy moving again. I thank my partner in the Senate, Senator Patty Murray, for helping deliver needed resources for the 2nd Congressional District and our state.” “Creating jobs and meeting the needs of Northwest Washington families begins with returning their federal tax dollars to projects in their own backyard,” said Senator Murray. “That’s why I worked with Congressman Larsen to ensure that improving safety on U.S. 2, helping Northern Border communities, and addressing local transportation challenges were top priorities in this bill. In the face of a deepening recession, this bill makes targeted investments that will help get Northwest Washington working again.”Larsen helped secure the following earmarked appropriations for the 2nd District and Washington state: Skagit and Island Counties $358,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study “In Skagit County, the question is not if the next flood is coming, but when,” said Larsen. “We need to protect the families, farms and businesses in harm’s way. Completing the Skagit River General Investigation Study is critical to our community’s flood control efforts.”$371,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the Swinomish Channel to keep the channel navigable for local commerce“According to the Port of Skagit County, approximately 340 local jobs depend on the Swinomish Channel being properly maintained,” said Larsen. “Federal funding to dredge the Swinomish Channel will help ensure that boat builders, fisherman and other businesses can continue to create and sustain local jobs.” “The Port of Skagit County thanks Congressman Larsen and his staff for their dedicated persistence and focused hard work to obtain funding for the dredging of the Swinomish Channel,” said Patsy Martin, Executive Director for the Port of Skagit County in June 2008. “Maintaining a dredged channel is vital to the economic health of the La Conner Marina, Town of La Conner, Swinomish Tribe and Skagit County. Boat builders, log processors, rock haulers, fishers and many others will be able to maintain and grow jobs due to the dredging paid for by this funding. Again, thank you Congressman Larsen.”$950,000 for Washington State Ferries to Build Ferry Propulsion Systems“In Washington state, ferries are a critical part of our transportation system,” said Larsen. “Twenty-five million passengers ride our ferries each year and millions more depend on them to keep our economy moving.” $25,000 for the Skagit County Drug Task Force to purchase surveillance equipment for their counter-narcotics operations; $80,000 to purchase and install additional laptops and software for the Island County Sheriff’s Office to use in their patrol cars“Methamphetamine and other drugs continue to threaten local schools, businesses and families,” said Larsen. “In this time of tight budgets, we must ensure that local law enforcement officers have the tools they need to keep us safe.” Snohomish County $2 million for the Washington State Department of Transportation to construct safety improvement projects on US 2 between Snohomish and Skykomish“Improving public safety on US 2 has been one of my top priorities since I was first elected to Congress,” said Larsen, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “US 2 is a critical transportation corridor for Snohomish County families and businesses, and we must do more to make it safe.” $50,000 to purchase new equipment for the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force “The Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force does critical work to protect our community from illegal drugs and drug-related crime,” said Larsen, co-chair of the House Meth Caucus. “We cannot afford to short-change law-enforcement as they work to keep us safe.”“This type of federal funding is crucial for local drug task forces to keep up with the escalating illicit drug threat we are facing,” said Pat Slack, Commander of the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force, in June 2008. To combat the methamphetamine epidemic in Washington state, Larsen also helped secure $1.1 million for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative. For Snohomish County, Larsen also helped secure: $2,375,000 for Snohomish County to help complete an alternate route for truck traffic to bypass downtown Granite Falls, improving safety for drivers and pedestrians $500,000 to help the City of Snohomish upgrade their wastewater treatment plant to improve Snohomish River water quality Whatcom County $1.9 million to help the Whatcom Transportation Authority replace 33 aging buses with new, bio-diesel compatible buses“Whatcom Transit saw the highest ridership increase in the country last year. But while more Whatcom County residents than ever rely on public transit to travel between home, work and school, many of Whatcom Transit’s buses are aging and in need of repair,” said Larsen, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “New buses will allow Whatcom Transportation Authority to keep up with skyrocketing ridership, improve efficiency and better serve the public.” According to Whatcom Transit, this funding combined with resources from the recently-passed American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will fund the purchase of eleven replacement buses for Whatcom County. $3 million to help Northern border communities recover the costs of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes“Whatcom County is currently spending more than 2 million dollars a year to prosecute federal border crimes,” said Larsen. “These resources will help relieve the heavy financial burden imposed on our Northern border communities.”In 2002, Larsen first introduced legislation to help Northern border communities cover the cost of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes. Larsen and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) have reintroduced this legislation in each successive Congress. $300,000 to improve the water quality of Lake Whatcom, Whatcom County’s largest source of drinking water“Approximately 96,000 people in Whatcom County depend on Lake Whatcom for clean drinking water,” said Larsen. “We must take action to clean up Lake Whatcom so it can continue to serve as a clean, dependable source of water for the community. Federal funding will help Whatcom County take steps to protect this critical reservoir.” Lake Whatcom is a large multi-purpose reservoir that is the source of drinking water for the City of Bellingham, Washington, Water District 10, and approximately 250 households on the lake – around 96,000 people in total. Lake Whatcom is likely to serve 100,000 people in less than five years.$295,000 to expand and improve information sharing between Whatcom County law enforcement agencies through the Whatcom Exchange Network (WENET)“Whatcom County’s WENET data integration program will provide law enforcement officers on patrol with real-time information on criminal offenders, giving them an important tool to protect our community,” said Larsen. For Whatcom County, Larsen also helped secure $285,000 for emergency preparedness at St. Joseph's Hospital to enhance emergency power, water and air supplies and increase hospital security capabilities. ###
03.10.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today following a meeting at the White House with President Barack Obama and members of the New Democrat Coalition, a group of more than 60 House Democrats.“I greatly appreciate the opportunity to meet with President Obama to discuss the historic challenges we face and how Congress and the Administration can work together to overcome them. “I enjoyed hearing from President Obama in person about his plans to invest in energy, education, and affordable health care to make our country stronger for the future. “We talked about economic recovery. I told the President about news I heard just today from my constituents in Oak Harbor. President Obama’s economic recovery plan is making it possible for the Oak Harbor School District – which serves a large number of military families – to hire an additional twelve teachers and move forward with school construction projects that will create local jobs. “We also discussed trade, a critical issue for our region because one in every three jobs in Washington state depends on trade. “I look forward to working with the Obama Administration and my colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition to build a new trade agenda that strengthens our engagement with the world and our economy here at home.” ###
03.05.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined a majority of his colleagues in the House (234 -191) to pass legislation that puts President Obama’s housing plan into action to help as many as 9 million American families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes. President Obama announced details of his plan to tackle the foreclosure crisis on Wednesday, including a website with information for struggling homeowners, www.financialstability.gov/makinghomeaffordable. “This legislation builds the foundation for President Obama’s plan to help as many as 9 million families avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes,” said Larsen. “The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act delivers fairness, hope, and a practical path to affording their mortgage for families facing foreclosure.” A record 5.4 million homeowners – nearly 12 percent of Americans with mortgages – were behind on their payments or in foreclosure at the end of last year. Washington state alone has seen an estimated 5,900 foreclosures so far this year. And new information out today reveals that 48 percent of the nation's homeowners who have a subprime, adjustable-rate mortgage are in foreclosure or behind on their payments. In the 2nd Congressional District, Snohomish County has been hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis, with 458 properties – 1 in every 602 homes – in foreclosure in January alone, according to RealtyTrac.com. In Skagit County, 1 in every 1097 homes was in foreclosure last month, along with 1 in every 4556 homes in Whatcom County and 1 in 5254 homes in Island County. Statistics were unavailable for San Juan County. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (H.R. 1106) gives judges the ability to modify existing mortgages for families with one home who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, restoring fairness (since current law already allows this option for individuals with multiple homes) and creating an incentive to spur mortgage servicers into voluntarily modifying loans. The legislation includes strict safeguards to ensure that bankruptcy judges can only modify mortgages if families have exhausted all other options. “This legislation restores fairness for middle-class families facing foreclosure on their only home by giving them the same rights under bankruptcy law as someone who owns two or more homes,” said Larsen.In addition to the bankruptcy provisions, today’s legislation helps the Hope for Homeowners program – passed by Congress in July – serve more struggling homeowners by reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders who modify mortgages. It protects servicers from some lawsuits, giving them confidence to modify loans for homeowners having difficulty making their payments. “The housing crisis is at the center of this recession and it affects every one of us,” Larsen continued. “This legislation puts President Obama’s housing plan into action so we can stabilize the housing market and begin to get our economy back on track.” ###
03.03.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rick Larsen (D-WA) today re-introduced bipartisan legislation to crack down on the bulk sale of dextromethorphan (DXM), an ingredient of cough syrup that kids are abusing to get high. The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2009 will help prevent the abuse of the drug by making it illegal to distribute unfinished DXM to a person or company not previously registered with the FDA or approved under federal or state law. Larsen and Upton’s bipartisan legislation passed the House in both the 109th Congress (December 2006) and the 110th Congress (October 2007) but failed to clear the Senate. With research indicating that more kids than ever are abusing cough medicine, Upton and Larsen are hopeful the bill will finally gather enough support to become law. “In 2005, two teenagers in my district died after overdosing on unfinished DXM they bought online,” said Larsen. “The loss of these children is a tragedy that will be forever felt by their families and our community. In spite of these and other DXM-related deaths, kids continue to have easy access online to large quantities of this dangerous drug. Banning the bulk sale of DXM on the Internet is a commonsense step that will save lives.” “This is a matter of life and death, and we must shatter the myth that it is safe for our kids to get high off of DXM because it is a common ingredient in cough syrup,” said Upton. “As a father of two, I am alarmed by the growing trend of teens abusing cough syrup and pure DXM to get high – 1.7 million teens last year gambled with their lives at least once by abusing cough syrup. Our kids are engaging in a game of Russian roulette each time they get high off of DXM, and sooner or later someone dies. As it stands, DXM is only a click of a mouse away from arriving on our kids’ doorsteps. This commonsense piece of legislation will put an end to the bulk sale of DXM over the Internet, and keep our kids safe from the dangers of this type of drug abuse.”DXM is a non-narcotic cough suppressant used in many over-the-counter cough and cold medicines. While medicines containing DXM are used safely by millions of Americans each year, taken in extremely large quantities DXM produces a hallucinogenic high and can cause brain damage, seizures and death. “The abuse of dextromethorphan has lead to the deaths of young people across the country. Whatcom County suffered the loss of two teenagers who purchased the drug from a supplier in Indiana through use of the Internet,” said Whatcom County Sheriff Bill Elfo, who investigated the DXM overdoses in Larsen’s district in Washington state. “The ready availability of this drug is attributable to inadequate controls. Congressman Larsen and his colleagues have shown true leadership in their pursuit of regulations that will better control the distribution of this product.” Studies have shown that teenagers are obtaining unfinished DXM to get high by consuming large amounts of the powder or mixing it with alcohol, and research indicates that abuse of DXM has increased sharply in recent years. The Partnership for a Drug-Free America last week announced the findings of its 20th annual teen study which revealed nearly 7 percent or 1.7 million teens have used cough medicines to get high in the past year. “The abuse of dextromethorphan is an urgent health threat facing teens in our country,” said Steve Pasierb, president and CEO of the nonprofit Partnership for a Drug-Free America. “Controlling bulk supply of DXM is a critical step toward reducing the prevalence of a dangerous behavior that 2.4 million teens report engaging in during their lifetime. The work of policymakers, combined with the efforts of concerned parents communicating the risks of DXM abuse to their kids, will have a significant positive impact on this issue.”There are a number of disreputable websites that provide “how-to” guides to get high off of DXM. These sites include information recommending how much DXM to use, suggest other drugs to combine with DXM, provide instructions on how to extract DXM from cough medicines, promote drug abuse in general and even offer for purchase a raw, unfinished form of DXM for snorting.For more information, Upton and Larsen encourage everyone to visit the website sponsored by the Partnership for a Drug Free America at www.dxmstories.com. ###
02.27.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement following President Obama’s announcement of plans to end the war in Iraq and withdraw combat troops by August 31, 2010: “Today, President Obama announced that his Administration has “begun the work of ending” the war in Iraq and will withdraw combat troops by next summer. “The President’s responsible plan to redeploy U.S. combat troops from Iraq will reduce the strain on our military, allow us to refocus on Afghanistan where the September 11 attacks originated and strengthen our ability to confront future threats to our security. “I support the President’s decision to withdraw combat troops while maintaining a limited military presence after August of 2010 to train and advise Iraqi security forces, conduct targeted counter-terrorism missions and protect American personnel and facilities, as I have called for in the past. “I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to make sure that President Obama’s plan is implemented effectively, and I thank the men and women of our military – and the families who support them – for their service to our country.” ###
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. — Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement after President Obama released his budget outline for Fiscal Year 2010: “On Tuesday, President Obama spoke to Congress and the American people about the historic challenges we face. He presented a bold plan to overcome these challenges and offered a hopeful vision of our country’s future. “Today, President Obama took an important step to plan for our future by sharing his blueprint for our fiscal priorities. “President Obama’s budget begins with a direct and straightforward assessment of the fiscal mess our country has inherited from the last Administration. In his budget outline, President Obama commits to restoring fiscal responsibility, pay-as-you-go spending and cutting the deficit in half by the end of his first term. “To strengthen our economy for the long-term, the President’s budget invests in modern infrastructure and clean energy to make our country energy independent, expands access to early and higher education to make our workforce competitive, and commits to making affordable healthcare a reality for all Americans.“This budget demonstrates President Obama’s strong commitment to our military. It provides a 2.9 percent pay raise for our service members. Finally, President Obama’s budget gives an honest assessment of the future cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan – an important step toward transparency. “Our country faces historic challenges. The President’s budget presents a bold, responsible plan to help us meet them.“As a member of the House Budget Committee, I look forward to reviewing the details of the President’s budget request in the coming weeks.” ###
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement tonight following President Barack Obama’s address to a Joint Session of Congress: “Tonight President Obama spoke truth about the historic challenges we face, presented a bold plan to overcome them and offered the American people a hopeful vision of our future. “Last week, President Obama signed into law an economic recovery package to create jobs, build a foundation for long-term growth and help our neighbors hurt the most by the recession. “We often rely on numbers to tell the story of this recession. But fluctuations in the stock market or even the latest unemployment numbers do not tell the whole story – that story is told by your neighbor who used to donate to a local food bank but now finds herself there, waiting in line for food, a senior who saved for retirement but has seen his nest-egg disappear, a family who played by the rules but now faces foreclosure. “These are the Americans President Obama spoke to tonight – Americans who are hurting, but who remain optimistic about our future. “Tonight, President Obama gave us all reason to hope. He made a commitment to tackle the foreclosure crisis and help families keep their homes, restore financial regulation and bring back accountability, bring down health care costs, move toward energy independence and modernize our education system so kids can learn in 21st century classrooms. President Obama also made a commitment to restore fiscal responsibility and cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term. “These are the steps we must take to invest in our future and make President Obama’s hopeful vision a reality. Our country faces historic challenges. Now is the moment we must move forward to overcome them together.” ###
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) helped secure federal dollars for Whatcom County priorities in the Fiscal Year 2009 omnibus appropriations bill heading for a House vote this week. The omnibus appropriations bill is the result of negotiations between House and Senate leadership and must pass both Houses of Congress before it can be signed into law. “I am pleased that Whatcom County priorities, including funding for border communities, local law enforcement and public transit are on track to get federal funding,” said Larsen. “I thank my partner in the Senate, Senator Patty Murray, for helping deliver needed resources for the 2nd Congressional District and our state.” Larsen helped secure the following appropriations: $1,900,000 to help the Whatcom Transportation Authority replace 33 aging buses with new, bio-diesel compatible buses“Whatcom Transit saw the highest ridership increase in the country last year. But while more Whatcom County residents than ever rely on public transit to travel between home, work and school, many of Whatcom Transit’s buses are aging and in need of repair,” said Larsen, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “New buses will allow Whatcom Transportation Authority to keep up with skyrocketing ridership, improve efficiency and better serve the public.”$3,000,000 to help Northern border communities recover the costs of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes“Whatcom County is currently spending more than 2 million dollars a year to prosecute federal border crimes,” said Larsen. “These resources will help relieve the heavy financial burden imposed on our Northern border communities.”In 2002, Larsen first introduced legislation to help Northern border communities cover the cost of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes. Larsen and Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) have reintroduced this legislation in each successive Congress. $290,000 to expand and improve information sharing between Whatcom County law enforcement agencies through the Whatcom Exchange Network (WENET)“In this time of tight budgets, we cannot afford to short-change local law enforcement,” said Larsen. “Whatcom County’s WENET data integration program will provide law enforcement agencies with real-time data on criminal offenders, strengthening their ability to coordinate and communicate with each other and protect our community.”The omnibus appropriation bill also includes: $1.1 million for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative $285,000 for emergency preparedness at St. Joseph's Hospital to enhance emergency power, water and air supplies and increase hospital security capabilities $300,000 to improve the water quality of Lake Whatcom, Whatcom County’s largest source of drinking water ###
02.23.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has helped secure federal dollars for Snohomish County priorities in the Fiscal Year 2009 omnibus appropriations bill heading for a House vote this week. The omnibus appropriations bill is the result of negotiations between House and Senate leadership and must pass both Houses of Congress before it can be signed into law. “I am pleased that Snohomish County priorities – including resources to improve public safety on US 2 and strengthen local law enforcement – are on track to get federal funding, and I thank my partner in the Senate, Senator Patty Murray, for helping deliver needed resources for the 2nd Congressional District and our state,” said Larsen. Larsen helped secure the following appropriations: $2 million for the Washington State Department of Transportation to construct safety improvement projects on US 2 between Snohomish and Skykomish“Improving public safety on US 2 has been one of my top priorities since I was first elected to Congress,” said Larsen, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “US 2 is a critical transportation corridor for Snohomish County families and businesses, and we must do more to make it safe.” $50,000 to purchase new equipment for the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force “Methamphetamine and other drugs continue to threaten our communities,” said Larsen, co-chair of the House Meth Caucus. “In this time of tight budgets, we must ensure that local law enforcement officers have the tools they need to keep us safe. We cannot afford to short-change law enforcement and community efforts to fight drugs and crime.” “This type of federal funding is crucial for local drug task forces to keep up with the escalating illicit drug threat we are facing,” said Pat Slack, Commander of the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force, in June 2008. The omnibus appropriations bill also includes: $1.1 million for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative $2,375,000 for Snohomish County to help complete an alternate route for truck traffic to bypass downtown Granite Falls, improving safety for drivers and pedestrians $500,000 to help the City of Snohomish upgrade their wastewater treatment plant to improve Snohomish River water quality ###
02.23.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has helped secure federal dollars for Skagit and Island County priorities in the Fiscal Year 2009 omnibus appropriations bill heading for a House vote this week. The omnibus appropriations bill is the result of negotiations between House and Senate leadership and must pass both Houses of Congress before it can be signed into law. “I am pleased that Skagit and Island County priorities, including local law enforcement, flood control and ferries, are on track to get federal funding and I thank my partner in the Senate, Senator Patty Murray, for helping deliver needed resources for the 2nd Congressional District and our state,” said Larsen. Larsen helped secure the following appropriations: $358,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study “In Skagit County, the question is not if the next flood is coming, but when,” said Larsen. “We need to protect the families, farms and businesses in harm’s way. Completing the Skagit River General Investigation study is critical to our community’s flood control efforts."$371,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the Swinomish Channel to keep the channel navigable for local commerce“According to the Port of Skagit County, approximately 340 local jobs depend on the Swinomish Channel being properly maintained,” said Larsen. “Federal funding to dredge the Swinomish Channel will help ensure that boat builders, fisherman and other businesses can continue to create and sustain local jobs.” “The Port of Skagit County thanks Congressman Larsen and his staff for their dedicated persistence and focused hard work to obtain funding for the dredging of the Swinomish Channel,” said Patsy Martin, Executive Director for the Port of Skagit County in June 2008. “Maintaining a dredged channel is vital to the economic health of the La Conner Marina, Town of La Conner, Swinomish Tribe and Skagit County. Boat builders, log processors, rock haulers, fishers and many others will be able to maintain and grow jobs due to the dredging paid for by this funding. Again, thank you Congressman Larsen.”$950,000 for Washington State Ferries to Build Ferry Propulsion Systems“In Washington state, ferries are a critical part of our transportation system,” said Larsen. “Twenty-five million passengers ride our ferries each year and millions more depend on them to keep our economy moving.” $25,000 for the Skagit County Drug Task Force to purchase surveillance equipment for their counter-narcotics operations; $80,000 to purchase and install additional laptops and software for the Island County Sheriff’s Office to use in their patrol cars“Methamphetamine and other drugs continue to threaten our communities,” said Larsen, co-chair of the House Meth Caucus. “In this time of tight budgets, we must ensure that local law enforcement officers have the tools they need to keep us safe. We cannot afford to short-change law enforcement and community efforts to fight drugs and crime.” ###
02.14.2009	The new presidential administration means a fresh start on federal policy for our common border with Canada. Here in Whatcom County and in Washington, D.C., we look forward to the opportunity to make our border more efficient for commerce and travel and more secure for our community and our country. First, let us consider the need for security: we all know that the only known Al Qaida operative ever apprehended at a U.S. border crossing was caught here in Northwest Washington. Terrorists are not the only threat we face. Federal, state and local law enforcement personnel provide a layered defense to stop not only terrorists, but drug smuggling and illegal immigration as well. Every year, Customs and Border Protection seizes approximately 40,000 pounds of illegal drugs on our 4,000-mile northern border. Efficiency is also critical: Canada is the United States' largest trading partner. In 2008, over $596 billion in commerce crossed our common border with Canada, an increase of 51 percent since 2002. Millions of American jobs depend on the quick and efficient transport of goods and passengers across our Northern border. When it comes to our border with Canada, the Obama administration is off to a good start. During her first week on the job, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano ordered a review of security measures on our shared border with Canada, requesting input from Customs and Border Protection, the Coast Guard and other agencies. I thank Secretary Napolitano for her leadership in ordering this review and I direct her attention to several important issues to Whatcom County, our region and our country: Preparing for the 2010 Olympics and the 2009 Police and Fire Games in Vancouver, B.C. The Olympics and Police and Fire Games will bring significant security challenges as well as economic opportunities to Washington state. We must ensure that the Department of Homeland Security provides enough personnel and resources at the border to keep our citizens safe and maximize the economic benefit of the games. We must also get an emergency coordination center up and running to coordinate the security efforts of over 40 federal, state and local agencies and conduct training exercises for first responders. Improving the NEXUS program. The NEXUS program, designed to allow pre-screened, low-risk travelers to cross our common border with Canada more efficiently, helps many of us save time during frequent border crossings. Yet the program has many flaws including a rigid "zero-tolerance" policy for NEXUS card applicants and the absence of an appeals process. I have called on Congress to hold hearings on the NEXUS program and I look forward to working with Secretary Napolitano to implement needed improvements. Ensuring the timely completion of the Peace Arch border facility. The new Peace Arch facility will dramatically improve efficiency and provide Customs and Border Protection with a more secure facility. We must continue to work with CBP to ensure that 10 booths and the staff needed to run them are in place and ready to go for the 2010 Olympics. Extending hours at the Lynden-Aldergrove border crossing. Twenty-four-hour access will make travel to and from Canada more convenient for many travelers in Northwest Washington and relieve congestion at the Blaine border crossings. Supporting interagency narcotics interdiction in the Interstate 5 corridor and San Juan Islands. Northwest Washington continues to be a corridor for the smuggling of illegal narcotics and the ingredients to make methamphetamine. More resources are needed to crack down on trafficking and protect our communities. Supporting ongoing federal-local coordination in border communities. In Whatcom County, federal agencies utilize an innovative dispatch system to support local law enforcement. This highly successful model should be supported and could be replicated elsewhere. Working with Canada to ensure American first responders have access to needed radio frequencies. The Federal Communications Commission and the Department of Homeland Security need to work together - hand in hand with their Canadian counterparts - to ensure that radio frequencies are available for first responders in our border communities, and that these frequencies are protected from unnecessary interference. The new presidential administration presents an opportunity to move forward on these critical issues. I know that the Obama administration will find dedicated partners in our local leaders and federal, state and local law enforcement personnel who protect our borders to keep us safe. I look forward to working with all of them to keep our common border with Canada secure and efficient. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen represents Washington's 2nd District which includes Whatcom County. He is co-chair of the Governor's 2010 Olympics Task Force and a member of the Northern Border Caucus.
02.13.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which cleared the House by a vote of 246-183. An agreement on the final bill was reached by the House and Senate earlier this week, and the legislation is expected to pass the Senate and be signed into law by the President in the next few days.“I am confident that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will achieve the following goals: create save or create approximately 3.5 million jobs, help those hurt the most by the recession and set a foundation for economic recovery and long-term growth.“The recovery package provides $739 million to modernize roads, bridges, transit and water infrastructure in Washington state. This investment in our infrastructure will create good-paying jobs and help get our economy moving again.“It invests $60 million in ferry boat and terminal construction and repairs. I fought alongside my Washington state colleagues to make sure that funding for ferries was included in the final bill.“To invest in clean, efficient energy and create jobs, the recovery package increases BPA’s borrowing authority by $3.25 billion to help modernize Washington state’s electricity grid and integrate wind power and other renewable energy sources. “For our neighbors who have been hit hard, it provides a temporary 13 percent increase for food stamps to help over 630,000 Washington residents feed their families and $150 million to help food banks across the country keep their shelves stocked.“The economic recovery package delivers help for cash-strapped school districts -- $1.4 billion for school districts in Washington state, with over $44 million for the 2nd Congressional District, including the first-ever major federal investment in school modernization. The legislation also provides $100 million for Impact Aid to help school districts across the country, including Marysville and Oak Harbor, that serve a large number of military families.“Finally, the economic recovery package provides a tax cut for 95 percent of working Americans so they can put that money back in the economy.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is a critical step on the road to economic recovery. Moving forward, I will continue fighting to create jobs, help our neighbors hit hard, and set a foundation for economic recovery and long-term growth.” District-by-District School Funding The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will invest over $44 million to modernize schools, fund special education and help kids learn, including investments in Title I, IDEA and school modernization and repair for the following school districts in the 2nd Congressional District. Please note that in addition to the funding below, 2nd District schools are also eligible for resources from the $1 billion in state stabilization funds the recovery package provides for Washington state. Anacortes: $893,000 Arlington: $1,335,000 Bellingham: $3,516,000 Blaine: $572,000 Burlington-Edison: $1,049,000 Concrete: $541,000 Conway: $167,000 Coupeville: $310,000 Darrington: $209,000 Everett: $6,764,000 Ferndale: $1,719,000 Granite Falls: $684,000 Index: $11,000 La Conner: $224,000 Lakewood: $599,000 Lake Stevens: $1,695,000 Lopez: $113,000 Lynden: $904,000 Marysville: $3,416,000 Meridian: $490,000 Monroe: $1,550,000 Mount Baker: $833,000 Mount Vernon: $2,492,000 Mukilteo: $4,770,000 Nooksack Valley: $609,000 Oak Harbor: $1,863,000 Orcas Island: $217,000 San Juan Island: $233,000 Sedro-Woolley: $1,382,000 Shaw Island: $6,000 Skykomish: $32,000 Snohomish: $2,312,000 South Whidbey: $609,000 Stanwood: $1,460,000 Sultan: $718,000 *The above numbers are estimates based on existing federal formulas. ###
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded House passage today of a bipartisan children’s health care bill to provide coverage to 11 million American children who need it, including thousands of kids in Northwest Washington. The legislation, which has already cleared the Senate, cleared the House today by a vote of 290 -135 and is now headed to the President’s desk. President Obama has indicated that he will sign the bill today.“This bipartisan legislation will extend coverage to an additional 49,800 kids in Washington state including more than 3,400 kids in the 2nd Congressional district,” said Larsen. “This legislation is a smart investment in our children’s future that will reduce the costly use of emergency rooms for primary care.” The bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for four and a half years, ensuring that the 7.1 million children currently enrolled in SCHIP continue to be covered and extending coverage to 4.1 million additional children, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. The bill is fully paid for by raising the tobacco tax by 62 cents.The legislation also includes a funding fix for Washington state that Larsen has worked with his Democratic colleagues to secure. Since the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP) became law in 1997, Washington and 10 other states have been penalized for having expanded health insurance coverage to children from families just above the poverty line prior to the bill becoming law. For the past twelve years, Washington state has been unable to spend its allotment of federal dollars to provide coverage for these children. The legislation passed by the House today provides a fair, permanent solution for this inequity.ADDITIONAL KIDS COVERED IN LARSEN’S DISTRICT: The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act could help thousands more children in Island, San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties get the health care coverage they need according to estimates from the Washington State Department of Social and Health Service: Island County: 338 additional children could get health care coverage they need San Juan County: 62 additional children could get the health care coverage they need Snohomish County: 963 additional children could get the health care coverage they needSkagit County: 835 additional children could get the health care coverage they needWhatcom County: 1,257 additional children could get the health care coverage they need(The numbers above are rough estimates based on maximum enrollment; a smaller number of additional children are likely to enroll in the program.) ###
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and other members of the Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation held a hearing on today on international piracy, a serious and growing threat to international shipping. In 2008, pirate attacks off the coast of Somalia and in the Gulf of Aden more than doubled, putting mariners in danger and imposing an economic burden on shipping companies.“When it comes to battling piracy in the 21st century, there is no “X marks the spot” solution,” said Larsen. “A comprehensive approach is needed to strengthen security, help ships evade pirates and defend themselves from attack, and help states in pirate-prone areas improve their surveillance and interdiction capabilities. Finally, a comprehensive approach to combating piracy must address the current political situation in Somalia.” The Gulf of Aden is a critical shipping corridor with between 16,000 and 20,000 ships transiting annually including 12 percent of the world’s petroleum shipments. According to a Chatham House report, insurance premiums for ships traveling through the Gulf of Aden have risen ten-fold in 2008. Several factors have contributed to the increased frequency of pirate attacks off the coast of Somalia: a larger number of high-value targets passing through the Gulf of Aden, the global proliferation of small arms trade, and most significantly, persistent civil violence and lawlessness in the country of Somalia. “As a member of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, I look forward to discussing how to best use our military assets, both Coast Guard and Naval, to combat piracy while protecting the interests of the American taxpayer,” Larsen continued. “We must carefully consider whether an ongoing naval mission to combat piracy off the coast of Somalia is a worthy and cost-effective use of our naval assets in the long term.” Congressman Larsen has requested that the House Armed Services Committee hold a hearing to address the role of the American military in combating piracy. ###
01.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group, released the following statement today in response to comments from Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on the U.S.-China relationship: “Our relationship with China will be the most important diplomatic relationship of the 21st century. I applaud Secretary of State Clinton’s comments on the value of continuing and expanding high-level conversations on critical issues to both of our nations. Positive engagement is necessary even while challenges exist. “It is my view that the Bush administration can claim credit for establishing a positive economic dialogue with China, but its efforts were not as coordinated as they could have been. Moving forward, a more comprehensive dialogue on a wider range of issues would be in the best interest of the American people. “In the coming years, our relationship with China faces significant challenges and presents tremendous opportunities. China has played a positive role in six-party talks and has the potential to be a productive partner in the developing world.“I look forward to working with the Obama Administration and my colleagues in Congress to give our relationship with China the attention it deserves.” The bipartisan U.S.-China Working Group educates Members of Congress on U.S.-China issues through meetings and briefings with academic, business and political leaders from the United States and China.###
01.28.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in support of The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (HR 1) which is scheduled for a House vote later today. The legislation must pass the Senate before President Obama can sign it into law.“Last month, our unemployment rate in Washington state took the biggest jump in 30 years, from 6.2 to 7.1 percent. Many of my constituents are struggling to find family-wage jobs, pay their bills and put food on the table. Just today, the Boeing Company announced that it will cut approximately 6 percent of its workforce, including hundreds of workers in Washington state. “Urgent action is needed now.“If we fail to take immediate action, the national jobless rate is set to rise to 11 percent by the last quarter of 2010. But by passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we can create or save 94,290 jobs in Washington state by the end of 2010, according the economist Mark Zandi. “This legislation invests $847 million in modernizing Washington state roads, bridges, transit and other infrastructure. “It allows the Bonneville Power Administration to invest $3.2 billion to deliver renewable energy to Washington homes and businesses more efficiently.“It delivers help for hungry families, seniors and kids, including the nearly 600,000 Washington state residents who rely on food stamps to get by. “It provides $69 million to modernize schools in Washington’s 2nd Congressional District and protect our children from the impact of state and local budget shortfalls. That includes an estimated… $936,000 for Island County $4 million for San Juan County $11 million for Skagit County $40 million for Snohomish County $14 million for Whatcom County …to help our kids learn in 21st Century classrooms. “This legislation is not a cure-all, and our country faces difficult times ahead. But the need for aggressive action is clear to shorten the recession and lessen its impact on the American economy and our neighbors in Northwest Washington.” ###
01.27.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement following a House Budget Committee hearing on the economic outlook and budget challenges ahead. Larsen and other Committee members heard from Doug Elmendorf, the new director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and leading economists.“Yesterday a number of major American businesses announced they will be cutting more than 55,000 jobs across the country in the coming days. Today the House Budget Committee heard testimony from the Congressional Budget Office that our country is heading for the longest recession since World War II and possibly the deepest as well.“Action is needed now for economic recovery and job growth. “CBO Director Elmendorf testified that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act – up for a House vote tomorrow -- will “provide a substantial boost to economic activity over the next several years” and create millions of jobs across the country.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will put people to work modernizing our roads, bridges and transit and investing in clean, efficient energy. It will invest in school modernization and repair to help more children learn in 21st century classrooms, provide tax cuts for 95 percent of working Americans and deliver help for Americans hurt the most.“This legislation alone won’t end the recession. Our country has worse economic times ahead. But today’s testimony made it clear that an economic recovery package is needed now to shorten the recession, lessen its impact on the American economy and workforce and put us on the road to recovery as soon as possible.” As a new member of the House Budget Committee for the 111th Congress, Larsen will have the opportunity to help shape our nation’s fiscal priorities during difficult economic times and help set the priorities for Congress’ annual appropriations process. Larsen will maintain his permanent seats on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee (T&I) for the 111th Congress. ###
01.26.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the House economic recovery package could deliver $69 million for Washington state’s 2nd district to modernize schools, create local jobs and help children learn in 21st century classrooms, according to estimates from the non-partisan Congressional Research Service. The legislation, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, is scheduled for vote on the House floor on Wednesday.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will put people to work modernizing local schools to help our kids grow up to succeed in the 21st century economy,” said Larsen. “This legislation not only creates jobs and invests in American competitiveness, but also provides unprecedented transparency by creating an economic recovery website so the American people can see how their money is being spent.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act invests an estimated $69,444,900 to modernize schools, fund special education and help kids learn in Washington state’s 2nd congressional district, including investments in Title I, IDEA and school modernization and repair for the following school districts: Anacortes: $1,422,500 Arlington: $2,023,800 Bellingham: $5,658,900 Blaine: $912,100 Burlington-Edison: $1,710,200 Concrete: $1,068,300 Conway: $255,100 Coupeville: $460,600 Darrington: $758,400 Everett: $11,007,400 Ferndale: $2,981,300 Granite Falls: $1,097,700 Index: $13,200 La Conner: $439,800 Lakewood: $893,900 Lake Stevens: $2,510,300 Lopez: $205,600 Lynden: $1,364,300 Marysville: $5,218,200 Meridian: $770,400 Monroe: $2,269,500 Mount Baker: $1,483,200 Mount Vernon: $4,563,400 Mukilteo: $7,727,300 Nooksack Valley: $973,200 Oak Harbor: $2,899,300 Orcas Island: $387,700 San Juan Island: $336,400 Sedro-Woolley: $2,389,600 Shaw Island: $6,600 Skykomish: $62,200 Snohomish: $3,335,900 South Whidbey: $890,200 Stanwood: $2,235,300 Sultan: $1,142,000 *Please note that the above numbers are estimates only based on existing federal formulas. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act also provides $69,076,598 in Pell grant funding to help as many as 105,096 students in Washington state as the recession puts higher education further out of reach for many students and families. And it includes $10,039,530 in Head Start funding to help Washington state sustain critical pre-K services and invest in the next generation. Beyond investments in education for the 21st century, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will put people to work modernizing roads, bridges and transit, invest in clean, efficient energy, provide tax cuts for working Americans and deliver help for those hurt the most including families struggling to put food on the table. ###
01.22.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the economic recovery package being considered in the House could bring as much as $847 million in transportation funding to Washington state to modernize our roads, bridges and transit and create local jobs. Larsen and other members of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee held in a hearing this morning to examine how infrastructure investment contributes to job creation and economic recovery, and to address investments in highways, bridges, public transportation and other infrastructure as part of the economic recovery package that is heading for a vote in the House as early as next week. “The economic recession has come home to Washington state,” said Larsen. “Our state unemployment rate took the biggest jump in 30 years last month and more of my constituents are having a hard time finding family-wage jobs. Now is the time to invest in job creation and long-term economic recovery.”In the past several months, Larsen has met with local leaders and constituents across the 2nd District to hear how an economic recovery package can make the right investments to strengthen our local economy and help families who are struggling. As the new Congress comes into session, Larsen has brought local input from these community meetings to Congress and urged congressional leaders to include provisions to ensure local input in how federal dollars are spent to modernize local roads, bridges and transit, and to ensure that the legislation provides for immediate job creation (funds obligated within 120 days) and longer-term job growth (funds obligated within 6-18 months). Both provisions are included in the draft legislation being considered in the House. Of the $30 billion included to modernize roads, highways and bridges across the country, $20.5 billion – or approximately two-thirds – will go to state governments to distribute. An additional $7.4 billion will go directly to local planning organizations. Larsen continues to work to secure funding for ferries as part of the economic recovery package.The House legislation includes the following funding for Washington state: $847,078,890 in total funding to modernize Washington state infrastructure $529,547,455 for highways, roads and bridges $216,584,501 to construct and maintain public transit $100,946,934 for wastewater treatment to provide clean water “Modernizing Washington state’s roads, bridges and transit will be a key part of getting our economy moving again,” Larsen continued. “I am pleased that this legislation not only creates jobs and helps our economy recover, but also demands unprecedented transparency and accountability and creates an economic recovery website so the American public can see how their money is being spent.” ###
01.22.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today regarding a letter he received from the BPA and Alcoa indicating that they were unable to reach an agreement within the existing timeframe on a deal to provide power to the Ferndale smelter from 2011 to 2028:“It is disappointing that BPA and Alcoa have so far been unable to reach a long-term agreement to help keep family-wage jobs at the Ferndale smelter after 2011. However, I am encouraged that BPA and Alcoa have agreed to continue working toward a power contract that works for both parties.“Although I recognize that the aluminum market has been hit hard by the current recession, it is important that BPA and Alcoa reach an agreement as soon as possible to provide long-term stability for Intalco workers and their families. I urge them to return to the table immediately.”
01.21.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for the TARP Reform and Accountability Act (H.R. 384) to amend the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) which passed the House today: “This fall, I voted for the financial rescue package because the economic stakes we faced were serious, the need to act immediate and the threat to families and businesses dire. I continue to believe that passing the financial rescue package was the right thing to do and that it saved jobs and businesses that would otherwise have been lost. “But while the TARP program helped avert catastrophe and saved some jobs and businesses, the Bush Administration has failed to help homeowners facing foreclosure and failed to provide the transparency and accountability taxpayers deserve. I am deeply troubled that no action has been taken to help struggling homeowners in spite of the fact that Congress empowered the Treasury Department to do so.“As I have said before, stemming the tide of home foreclosures is critical to getting our economy out of this mess. In the Puget Sound area, the number of foreclosures continues to rise. Across Washington state, the number of families facing foreclosure has more than doubled since 2006. “The TARP Reform and Accountability Act will improve the Troubled Asset Relief Program by requiring that the Treasury Department help our neighbors facing foreclosure, strengthen accountability and oversight, require detailed reports from recipients of financial rescue funds and ensure that those funds be used to increase the flow of credit in our economy. “Moving forward, Treasury must hold financial companies accountable for full transparency and require them to use taxpayer money responsibly and in our economy’s best interest. “President Obama and his Administration have pledged to restore accountability and transparency to the financial rescue program, help struggling homeowners and use the “full arsenal of tools available to us to get credit flowing again to families and business” so we can weather this economic storm. “We cannot afford to tie President Obama’s hands as he addresses this economic crisis. Congress must give the Obama Administration the tools needed for the magnitude of the task at hand. “I am confident that under President Obama’s leadership, the troubled financial rescue program will change course. But Congress must continue to provide strong oversight and demand accountability for our constituents.” ###
01.14.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) cheered House passage today of a bipartisan children’s health care bill that will provide health care coverage to 11 million American children who need it including thousands of kids in Northwest Washington. President Bush twice vetoed the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill in 2007. President-elect Obama supports the legislation (HR 2), which passed the House today by a vote of 289 to 139. “This bipartisan bill will help children from families who cannot afford private insurance get the basic medical care that every child needs and deserves,” said Larsen. “In these tough economic times, it is more important than ever that we help our neighbors hit hard and ensure that kids from low-income families can see a doctor when they get sick.”The bill reauthorizes the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for four and a half years, ensuring that the 7 million children currently enrolled in SCHIP continue to be covered and extending coverage to 4 million additional children, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.The legislation also includes a funding fix for Washington state that Larsen has worked with his Democratic colleagues to secure. Since the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP) became law 1997, Washington and 10 other states have been penalized for having expanded health insurance coverage to children from families just above the poverty line prior to the bill becoming law. For the past twelve years, Washington state has been unable to spend its allotment of federal dollars to provide coverage for these children. The legislation passed by the House today provides a fair, permanent solution for this inequity.ADDITIONAL KIDS COVERED IN LARSEN’S DISTRICT: The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act could help thousands more children in Island, San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties get the health care coverage they need according to estimates from the Washington State Department of Social and Health Service: Island County: 338 additional children could get health care coverage they need San Juan County: 62 additional children could get the health care coverage they need Snohomish County: 963 additional children could get the health care coverage they needSkagit County: 835 additional children could get the health care coverage they needWhatcom County: 1,257 additional children could get the health care coverage they need(The numbers above are rough estimates based on maximum enrollment; a smaller number of additional children are likely to enroll in the program.)###
01.13.2009	Congressman Rick Larsen encourages his constituents whose homes, farms or businesses have been damaged by recent flooding to file a damage report immediately. Flood damage must be reported in order to be eligible for possible federal assistance. To file a damage report for your home or business, please contact your local Emergency Operations Center: In Snohomish County, call (425) 388-5060 to file a damage report or visit https://www1.co.snohomish.wa.us/Departments/Emergency_Management/(For help with debris removal in Snohomish County, call (360) 388-5060.)In Skagit County, call (360) 428-3260.In Whatcom County, call (360) 778-8500 or visit https://www.whatcomcounty.us/. In King County, call (800) 523-5044 or visit https://www.kingcounty.gov/safety/prepare.aspx.To file a damage report for your farm or dairy, please contact the Farm Services Administration for disaster assistance:In Snohomish County: (425) 334-3131 extension 2In Skagit County: (360) 428-7758 extension 2In Whatcom County: (360) 354-5658 extension 2###
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on today’s news that the Boeing Company will be cutting thousands of jobs in the Puget Sound area. Larsen’s district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant. “My heart goes out to the Boeing workers who will be losing their jobs and to everyone in our region who is part of the Boeing family. Today’s news means that even the best-trained, most-qualified aerospace workers in the world are feeling the pain of the worsening recession. “Washington state workers are not alone. Today the Labor Department reported that 524,000 jobs across the country were lost in the month of December, bringing the jobless rate to 7.2 percent, the highest level in 16 years. “We need action now put Americans back to work, create jobs in Washington state and help families who are struggling.” ###
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on a report released Friday on the Treasury Department’s implementation of the financial rescue package: “A report out today from the Congressional Oversight Panel for Economic Stabilization brings deeply troubling news about the implementation of the financial rescue package. “I am appalled by news reports that the Treasury Department has failed to hold financial institutions accountable for their use of taxpayer money. The report out today also confirms that Treasury has taken no action to help struggling homeowners in spite of the fact that Congress gave Treasury the power to do so as part of the financial rescue package we passed in October. As I have said before, stemming the tide of home foreclosures is critical to getting our economy out of this mess.“Moving forward, Congress and Treasury must hold financial companies accountable for making the best possible use of taxpayer money and for being fully transparent with the American people. I am encouraged that Chairman Frank will be holding a hearing next week to draft tough requirements for transparency, accountability and foreclosure relief that Treasury must meet before Congress could consider releasing any further TARP funds.“In the coming months, the Treasury Department must do more to help families keep their homes and reduce the number of home foreclosures. I look forward to hearing from incoming Treasury Secretary Geithner about his plans to overhaul the financial rescue program and put in place requirements to ensure transparency and accountability for taxpayers and help for homeowners. I am hopeful that the Obama Administration will deliver help for homeowners and ensure that banks are using financial rescue funds to increase lending to credit-worthy borrowers including small businesses and families.”###
12.11.2008	The explosion killed four and injured many others, ripping apart the hustle and bustle of a Kabul morning on the day when Americans in Afghanistan and around the world celebrated Thanksgiving. Several members of Congress, including myself, were nearly a mile away from the suicide bomber at the time of the explosion, safely behind several layers of security, being briefed by the United States military and asking ourselves: What does success in Afghanistan look like, and how do we achieve it?The purpose of our trip to Afghanistan — led by Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton, D-Mo. — was twofold: to spend Thanksgiving with U.S. troops serving there and to address how the United States and our allies can achieve success in Afghanistan.Almost exactly one year ago, United States military leadership famously declared that "in Afghanistan we do what we can, in Iraq we do what we must." At that time, some of us in Congress had long been pushing to refocus our efforts on Afghanistan, where the 9/11 attacks originated.In the seven years since the United States led a coalition to overthrow the Taliban for its role in the attacks of Sept. 11, the United States has crippled al-Qaida there and worked hard to build a secure and democratic Afghanistan. However, a resurgent Taliban and recent increase in violence threaten the progress we have made. The time to refocus on Afghanistan is now.The two goals of U.S. efforts in Afghanistan should be establishing a stable government and ensuring that Afghanistan is never again a safe haven for terrorists. How do we reach these goals?First and foremost, success in Afghanistan will require a substantial and sustained commitment from the United States and its allies. President-elect Barack Obama has made his commitment to Afghanistan clear. Recent Iraqi parliament approval of a U.S. military drawdown in Iraq as part of a Status of Forces Agreement may provide the opportunity we need to direct more attention and resources to Afghanistan.Second, the Afghan National Army (ANA) must increase in size and capability so the Afghan government can control its own security. I recall a House Armed Services Committee hearing several years ago when we were told that the U.S. military aimed to train a 70,000-person Afghan army. We now estimate that a 134,000-person Afghan army is needed. Congress may soon consider a request from the new administration to achieve this goal.Third, the United States must combine police training with anti-corruption and reconstruction efforts. One problem we face is that while the United States and some of our allies conduct military operations to clear areas of insurgents, we must rely on Afghan National Police (ANP) to maintain stability. Unfortunately, the ANP is underfunded and, in many areas, corrupted by the very people we are trying to defeat.On the Thanksgiving trip, senior military and civilian officials told our delegation that military raids will be more successful if they are coupled with stronger efforts to promote local economic development and crack down on corruption.Fourth, Congress and the American people must support President-elect Obama's call for additional U.S. brigades in Afghanistan to complement the existing efforts of U.S., NATO and other coalition partners. These brigades should focus on reconstruction, security and training Afghan security forces. President Obama may be able to take advantage of a surge of goodwill in Europe to persuade our European partners to send more troops. I encourage him to act swiftly.Finally, the Afghan people must have a stake in their government and ownership over their future. Sometime in 2009, the Afghans will have a national presidential election. This election — only the second in the post-Taliban era — will be an important milestone. It is critical that the Afghan people feel safe enough, and sufficiently invested in the election results, to go to the polls.Other challenges remain. Afghanistan's path to success is complicated by a range of regional problems, including an economy driven by the opium trade, complex ethnic and tribal rivalries and a contentious relationship with Pakistan. However, I remain heartened by the fortitude of the Afghan people and the optimism of the American women and men serving there. They are working hard to do what they must. So must our leaders. Rep. Rick Larsen, D-Lake Stevens, represents Washington's 2nd Congressional District, which includes the Northwest corner of the state to the Canadian border.
12.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement after voting for the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act (HR 7321). The legislation passed the House on Wednesday evening. “I supported this legislation to save jobs. I am convinced that if the federal government fails to act, the U.S. auto industry will collapse. One out of every ten American jobs is tied to the domestic auto industry, some of them in my district. Congress must act to save as many of these jobs as we can. “Bankruptcy is not a viable option. For our domestic auto industry, going into bankruptcy would mean going out of business. Buying a car is not a one-time transaction, but a commitment to maintenance and customer service in the future. If auto companies filed for bankruptcy, customers would stop buying their cars, carmakers would close their doors, and jobs would be lost. “The legislation we passed today provides up to $15 billion in short-term bridge loans to help the American auto industry survive the immediate crisis. This is a loan, not a handout, and we will require it to be repaid in full. “As Congress has considered requests for help from the car companies, my top concern has been ensuring that any assistance we give them is a smart investment of taxpayer money.“This bill requires that taxpayers be repaid first and that taxpayers are first in line to benefit from future profits. It bans golden parachutes and eliminates bonuses for highly-paid executives at taxpayer expense. And it creates a “car czar” to hold the auto makers accountable for holding up their end of the deal and putting in place restructuring plans that work. “This legislation protects federal investments in advanced technology to improve efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.“Help for the American auto industry is just one step on the road to economic recovery. More must be done, and done soon. I will keep working to pass an economic recovery and job creation package that creates jobs, puts Americans back to work, and helps our neighbors hardest hit by the recession.”###
11.21.2008	Washington, D.C. — Legislation to provide an additional 7 weeks of unemployment benefits to every state including Washington was signed into law on Thursday. The bill (H.R. 6867), which first passed by the House of Representatives in October with strong bipartisan support, cleared the Senate Thursday afternoon. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement: “Extending unemployment insurance is an important step that will help workers in my district and families across the country hit hard by the economic downturn. The latest national unemployment numbers show that more Americans are filing for unemployment now than at any point in the past 16 years. In Washington state, our unemployment rate rose to 6.3 percent in October, up half a percentage point from September. “The legislation signed into law on Thursday will help unemployed Americans pay their bills, stay in their homes and keep food on the table as they look for work. “I congratulate Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-07), Chairman of the Security and Family Support Subcommittee, for his leadership in getting this important legislation passed and signed into law. “But more must be done, and done soon. The next step to heal our ailing economy is an economic recovery and jobs creation package to invest in America and Americans and lay the groundwork for economic recovery. “In September, the House of Representatives passed an economic recovery and job creation package to invest in highways, roads, bridges and other infrastructure. This bill would create approximately 11,000 jobs in Washington state and help approximately 566,000 people in Washington state struggling with hunger and food insecurity put food on the table. “I will keep pushing until an economic recovery and jobs creation package is signed into law.” The unemployment insurance legislation signed into law on Thursday provides an additional 13-week extension for states where the unemployment rate has averaged 6.5 percent or more during the past three months. This does not include Washington state. ###
11.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today: “The loss of 121 jobs at the Intalco aluminum smelter in Ferndale comes as a blow to our entire community. Today’s news makes it clearer than ever that the global economic crisis is hitting home here in Whatcom County. “My staff will do everything we can to help the 75 Alcoa employees and 46 contractors who lost their jobs find new work. We are looking into ways we can be of assistance to local community organizations as they help laid off workers and their families. “Today’s announcement comes exactly one month after Alcoa and the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) announced the framework for a deal to keep Ferndale’s aluminum smelter running for the next twenty years. It is more critical than ever that this draft agreement be finalized to help keep family-wage jobs at the Ferndale smelter for the next two decades and bring long-term stability for Intalco workers and their families. “As your representative, I will keep fighting to get our economy on the road to recovery, and I will keep fighting for family-wage jobs here in Whatcom County.” ###
11.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) delivered the keynote address at Naval Station Everett’s Veterans Day ceremony on Friday, November 7. Below are Larsen’s Veterans Day remarks as prepared for delivery.“Thank you for the introduction, Captain Mascolo. I appreciate having the opportunity to speak here today.“On November 11th, 1918, German and Allied forces signed an Armistice to end World War I. The following year, President Wilson declared November 11th as “Armistice Day”. “In the years after the end of World War I, many believed that this conflict had been the “War to End All Wars.” While that hope did not come to pass, Armistice Day became more than a day to commemorate the end of a conflict. It came to embody our country’s hope for peace, a day dedicated (to quote the Congressional Resolution creating it) to “the cause of world peace”. “In 1954, Congress renamed Armistice Day “Veterans Day” to recognize the sacrifices made by all our country’s veterans, not just those who served in World War I.“Ninety years after the signing of the Armistice, we are still working to realize our hope for peace, and we are still working to honor our commitment to veterans. “From the beaches of Normandy to the sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan, those serving our country in uniform have overcome and continue to overcome tremendous adversity to fulfill their missions. “And the men and women who served our military in peacetime have protected us from attack, maintained peace, and prepared our country to respond to any threat that we face.“Our nation owes all veterans and service members a tremendous debt of gratitude for their service and sacrifice. “In the last Congress, we took several steps to improve care and benefits for veterans – and in the next Congress we are going to continue this work.“Here in Northwest Washington we have a large veterans community. Many of these veterans have had to travel up to two hours each way to get the basic healthcare they need at the Seattle VA. As you know, many veterans in our community have worked to bring a Community Based Outpatient Clinic to Northwest Washington. “This has been a long, hard process – but we have almost reached the finish line. “Many of you have seen the permanent site for the new CBOC in Mount Vernon. It is a going to be a large, beautiful facility that will meet the needs of 2nd District veterans who need outpatient care. “Currently, a temporary CBOC is up and running in Sedro-Woolley. The VA’s plan is for the permanent CBOC to open late spring or early summer of next year, and I will keep working to make sure that happens. “Congress passed and the President signed into a law a New GI Bill to help veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get the education and the skills they need to compete in a 21st Century economy. “With the cost of college skyrocketing, many vets have been unable to get a 4-year degree with their GI benefits. This new GI Bill – a GI Bill for the 21st Century – will give veterans an educational benefit equal to the most expensive public college in their state. The VA is now working to implement the GI Bill so veterans can start using the benefits in the 2009 school year.“We also need to invest in the VA to ensure that it has the resources it needs to deal with the unique needs of younger veterans of our conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The VA must be fully equipped and prepared to diagnose and treat the signature injury of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan – Traumatic Brain Injury, or TBI. “Our support system for veterans must be focused on the mental health problems, such as PTSD, associated with the stress of multiple deployments to combat zones. Vet Centers in Bellingham and Everett provide outstanding counseling services for veterans in Northwest Washington, and we need to make sure that these types of services are well-supported by Congress.“And the VA must be prepared to treat the record numbers of women who are serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. As the number of women served by the VA doubles in the coming years, we must do a better job providing services for female veterans. We must ensure that woman have equal access to VA benefits and services, and that the VA is ready and able to meet their needs. “Over the course of the last few months, we’ve heard a lot of one “C-word” – Change. I want to talk about another C-word – Commitment – specifically, the continuing commitment to a strong military.“On November 11th, at 11 a.m., much of the world will pause for a moment of silence to commemorate the signing of the Armistice which brought World War I to a close 90 years ago. In the coming years, we may not ever have the opportunity to observe a moment of silence to commemorate the end of the fight against terrorists.“But we need to stay committed to keeping America safe by engaging in aggressive diplomacy, pushing for greater international cooperation, and maintaining a strong military force that is ready to kick down the door when necessary. “To do that, we need to uphold our commitment to investing in both military equipment and our service members. Defense planners in the Pentagon and Congress must work together to ensure that our military has the right resources to respond to the threats we face.“The Navy and Congress need to stay committed to reaching the goal of a 313-ship Navy. A strong Navy will allow us to protect vital sea-lanes, combat piracy, and show our allies and foes alike that the United States is strong and capable of intervening, if necessary, at any time and place on earth. “We also need a firm commitment to our allies that we will work with them to train and equip their military forces. It is in our national security interest to have partners around the globe with the capacity to combat terrorists and insurgents.“And we need to sustain our commitment to our men and women in uniform to improve retention and attract potential recruits. “I am encouraged by the current Administration’s commitment to ensure a seamless and efficient transition to the next Administration, the first Presidential transition in 40 years which occurs in a time of enduring conflict.“Of the millions of men and women who served in World War I, the conflict from which Veterans Day was created, only one, Frank Woodruff Buckles of Missouri, is still alive. When asked how he’s been able to live to the ripe age of 107, Mr. Buckles replied, “Hope”.“The sacrifices made by our veterans have helped to keep us free, and to keep us hopeful about our country’s future and the possibility of peace in the world.“As a country, we must repay the debt we owe our veterans by bringing health care closer to our veterans, strengthening the Veterans Administration and veterans benefits for the 21st century, and strengthening our military to prepare for 21st century threats. “On Veterans Day, our community and our country speak with one voice, thanking our veterans for their service and sacrifice. “To all the veterans here today and around our country, thank you. To everyone who continues to serve in the military, thank you. And to all the military families who make their service possible, thank you.” ###
10.27.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today: "Today's announcement of a tentative agreement between the Machinists and the Boeing company gives Boeing workers, their families and our entire community a reason to celebrate. "I look forward to seeing the details of this agreement, and I am optimistic that a final deal that works for everyone will be reached soon. "The best aerospace workers in the world are right here in Washington state, and they deserve a fair contact with good wages and benefits. I am pleased that a tentative agreement has been reached so workers at the Boeing Everett plant can go back to work building the planes our country and our economy need." ###
10.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced his support today for the memorandum of understanding reached by Alcoa and the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), which provides the framework for a deal to keep Alcoa Intalco Works, Ferndale’s aluminum smelter facility, running for the next twenty years.“Today’s agreement will keep family-wage jobs at the Ferndale smelter for the next twenty years and bring long-term stability for workers and their families,” said Larsen. “For Intalco workers, the last few years have been a roller coaster with many ups and downs. Work remains to be done, but today’s announcement means stable jobs and a smoother ride ahead."“I am pleased that this proposal will take an important step forward to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make the Ferndale smelter one of the most environmentally friendly in the country,” Larsen continued. “I want to thank BPA and Alcoa for negotiating in good faith to protect these jobs and keep Intalco open for the long term.” Since he was first elected to Congress, Larsen has worked with Alcoa and led the effort by Washington state’s congressional delegation to keep family-wage jobs in Ferndale.Plant Manager Mike Rousseau said, "Alcoa Intalco Works employees and families are very thankful for the support Congressman Larsen has provided. He, like so many in the local community, have been instrumental in keeping this plant alive."The contract proposed today would take effect in 2011 and last through 2028. It stipulates that BPA will supply energy to power the smelter at a set rate. The Intalco smelter opened in Ferndale in 1966 and currently employs approximately 660 people in Northwest Washington. ###
10.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the news that Meridian Yachts will close its doors in the coming days: “The loss of Meridian Yachts is sad news not only for Meridian workers and their families, but for our entire community. “I have asked my staff to do everything we can to help Meridian workers find new jobs and help their families get through this difficult time. My office is looking into ways we can be of assistance to our Workforce Development Councils in Snohomish and Skagit County, and to the community as a whole. “We face a global economic crisis, and we are feeling the impact here in Arlington and across Northwest Washington. As a community, I know we will come together to help our neighbors in need. As your representative, I will keep fighting to get our economy back on track.” ###
10.03.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today the House is scheduled to vote on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (HR 1424). This legislation includes all the provisions from the financial rescue package Larsen voted for last week and adds a measure to increase the amount of bank deposits insured by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000. The Senate combined this financial recovery package with a package of tax extensions that was expected to pass Congress this year as a separate bill. Those provisions include an extension of Washington state’s sales tax deduction, direct funding for rural counties to hire teachers and cops, tax breaks for 20 million middle class families who would otherwise pay the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), and renewable energy tax breaks to create thousands of “green” jobs. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in advance of the House vote:“When the Bush Administration asked for $700 billion with no oversight and no protections for taxpayers, Democrats in Congress said no way, no how, no blank check.” “Congress has made significant improvements to the Administration’s financial rescue package. We cut the $700 billion in half and conditioned any future payments on Congressional review. We added strong protections for taxpayers to ensure that we get our money back and benefit from any future profit. We included help for families who have been hit hard by the housing crisis to help prevent a projected 2 million foreclosures next year. We provided strong oversight and prohibited any conflicts of interest. And for the first time, we limited executive pay and banned golden parachutes for Wall Street executives who participate.“In the past week, I have held meetings in Skagit and Snohomish County and here in DC with over 200 constituents to hear how the economic crisis is impacting local businesses and families. “Due to the credit crunch, small businesses are having a hard time getting the loans they need to start a business or make payroll. That includes local doctors – one doctor in Whatcom County, who has good credit and can make a large down payment -- has been turned down for a loan by 17 local banks. This doctor cannot get the loan he needs to start his practice and provide needed care for local families. “I’ve heard from several local governments that the economic crisis is making it more difficult for them to move forward with building new schools, fire stations and other projects our communities need.“The credit crunch is slowing down our local construction industry. In Snohomish County, I heard from an electrical contractor I’ve known for years who was just turned down for a loan from a bank he’s done business with for years. “And as the stock market plummets, seniors’ retirement savings are taking a hit. “Several constituents have mentioned the similarities between this financial crisis and the one we faced in 1929. One women wrote my office, “History should teach us that doing nothing is not an option.”“Another woman who called from Marysville said, “I already lived through the Great Depression, so I know what happens when government fails to act. Please vote for this bill – no one likes it, but we have to do it.”“I urge my colleagues to support this financial recovery package to help our economy recover and grow. If we fail to act, I believe that every family and every community in the country will pay the price in failed businesses, lost jobs, vacant homes, lost retirement savings, and college dreams postponed. “To quote two of my constituents, ‘please vote for this bill – no one likes it, but we have to do it’. ‘Doing nothing is not an option.’ ###
09.29.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after voting for a financial rescue package (HR 3997) which failed to pass the House of Representatives by a vote of 205 to 228. “Our nation faces an economic crisis that has the potential to impact every family in the country. The Bush Administration responded to this crisis by requesting a $700 billion blank check with no oversight, no protections for taxpayers, no returns on taxpayer investment, and no help for homeowners.“Democrats in Congress said no way, no how, no blank check. “Democrats and Republicans in Congress worked together to make improvements to the Administration's plan. We included the oversight, accountability and return on our investment American taxpayers need and deserve.“This improved financial rescue package would have cut the $700 billion payment in half and conditioned any future payments on Congressional review. It would have banned golden parachutes and exorbitant bonuses for Wall Street executives who participate. It would have provided help for families who have been hit hard by the foreclosure crisis. It would have ensured that taxpayers get a fair return on our investment and benefit from any future profit, and it would have provided strong oversight and prohibited any conflicts of interest. “I am disappointed that this critical legislation failed to pass the House today.“Let me be absolutely clear -- the economic rescue package I voted for today is not about helping banks or Wall Street. It’s about protecting all of us -- American families in Washington state and across the country who need our economy to recover and grow. “Without emergency intervention, Americans who play by the rules, Americans who pay their bills on time every month, Americans with good credit will suffer due to Wall Street’s mistakes and the Bush administration’s refusal to provide the appropriate regulation our economy needs. “The stakes we face are serious. This crisis has the potential to impact every family in the country. If you own a small business and need a loan, you could be hurt. If you are planning to buy a home, you could be hurt. If your son or daughter wants to go to college, you could be hurt. If you are planning for retirement, you could be hurt.“Due to the credit crunch we already face, banks in Washington state and around the country have tightened lending, and families and business are finding it more difficult to get the loans they need in their everyday lives.“Under the financial rescue package, the federal government would buy bad debt from troubled banks to unclog our financial system, allowing banks to once again provide the capital our economy needs to recover and grow. “In the coming days, it is critical that Members of Congress come to an agreement and pass a financial rescue package as soon as possible. Our economy depends on it. “In the coming weeks, Congress must also act to deliver the appropriate regulation and oversight our economy needs for the long-term – regulation and oversight the Bush administration has failed to provide.” ###
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen shared the following information with his constituents: Our nation faces an economic crisis that has the potential to impact every family in the country. I believe that the federal government must respond to this crisis. My colleagues in Congress and I are working to find the best way forward. I want to help explain the stakes we face and update you on our work in Congress, but first, I want to invite you to contact me with any thoughts you have. Please don’t hesitate to call my office in Washington, D.C. at (202) 225-2605 or email me at rick.larsen@mail.house.gov. This is a critical time for our country, and I appreciate hearing from you. What would the Financial Rescue Package do? To get our economy back on track, the Administration asked Congress to provide as much as $700 billion to purchase bad debt from financial institutions. But I am not willing to write Wall Street a blank check to get them out of this mess. Congress has already rejected the Administration’s “blank check” proposal. We are now drafting a new plan that includes help for homeowners and protections for taxpayers.Buying bad debt from troubled banks could unclog our financial system, allowing banks to once again provide the capital our economy needs to function, so families and businesses across the country are able to get the loans they need. Taxpayers would be investors in any financial institution we help, and we should expect to get a fair return on our investment when the economy rebounds. Here are some of our changes to the Administration’s proposal: No golden parachutes or exorbitant bonuses for Wall Street executives at taxpayer expense Help for families who have been hit hard by the foreclosure crisis A fair return on our investment and a stake in any future profit Strong oversight and no conflicts of interest Why do we need a Financial Rescue Package? The economic rescue package we are considering in Congress is not about helping banks or Wall Street. It’s about all of us -- American families across the country who want our economy to recover and grow. Our economy can’t grow to create jobs without the availability of credit. If you own a small business and need a loan, you could be impacted. If you are planning to buy a home, you could be impacted. If your son or daughter wants to go to college, you could be impacted. Due to the credit crunch we face, banks in Washington state and around the country have already tightened lending, and families and business are finding it more difficult to get the loans they need in their everyday lives. Who could be hurt if we don’t intervene? A family who needs a home loan A student who needs private loan to attend college A small business owner who needs a loan to get started or expand Your neighbor who could lose their job if their employer is forced to cut back Your aunt planning to retire next year The Seattle PI editorial board put it well: “…unless the federal government uses every resource at its disposal, the very economic foundation of this nation could crumble. In an instant there would be no credit for car loans, condos or companies. We, not Wall Street, would be left in the rubble. Without action, we could lose our jobs, our homes and more at a greater cost than a $700 billion intervention. This is that big a deal.” How did we get here? For over a decade, recklessness on Wall Street and a lack of aggressive regulation and enforcement made it very easy for Americans to get credit. Easy credit and a strong housing market led mortgage lenders to make loans that some borrowers couldn’t afford. Eventually the housing bubble burst, and many borrowers with adjustable rate mortgages were stuck with homes worth less than they expected and mortgage payments they could not afford. As a result, many homeowners began to default on their mortgages. At the same time, these mortgages were packaged together as “mortgage-backed securities” and sold to investors around the world. When the housing market began to decline and borrowers could no longer pay their mortgage payments, the market value of these financial assets plummeted, and investors stopped buying them. This dealt a fatal blow to some of our country’s oldest financial institutions, which risked running out of money and collapsed. Other investment banks found themselves in serious trouble and unable to lend money to smaller banks. These smaller, community banks depend on funds from larger institutions to loan money to your cousin who wants to buy a home, or your neighbor looking to expand his business. The Small Business Administration reports that small business loans made by commercial banks have already declined by 25 percent from last year. I have heard stories in Skagit County, for example, of construction, manufacturing, childcare and restaurant businesses that may be forced to shut down because they have been turned down for needed loans. If credit dries up entirely, our economy could grind to a halt. As I write this, Congress is working to respond to the economic crisis. Please be assured that I am fighting to make sure that we get the best plan for taxpayers and the best plan for our economy. Please contact my office with any thoughts you have.
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today praised House passage of a 2nd economic stimulus package – the Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act (H.R. 7110) -- to create jobs, strengthen our infrastructure by investing in roads, bridges and highways and help Americans hurt by the economic downturn. “This economic stimulus package will create jobs, strengthen our infrastructure and help Americans hurt by rising unemployment and the high cost of food and fuel,” said Larsen. Larsen, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, praised the bill’s investments in our nation’s transportation and infrastructure needs. “This plan invests needed resources in our country’s aging highways, roads, bridges and other infrastructure to improve safety, reduce congestion and create approximately 11,000 jobs in Washington state.”The bill would invest $230,944,035 in Washington state highways and create 11,000 good-paying construction jobs that cannot be outsourced to another country. The American construction industry is currently suffering the highest unemployment rate (8.2 percent) of any industrial sector.Larsen also praised the bill’s help for families struggling with hunger and food insecurity. “Many of my constituents have been hit hard by the high cost of food, and more families and seniors are turning to food banks for help,” said Larsen. “This economic recovery bill would help approximately 566,000 people in Washington state put food on the table to feed their families.”Under current law, the amount of Food Stamp benefits available for families in need is based on out-of-date information that fails to take into account recent increases in food costs. The economic recovery bill provides an additional $2.6 billion to address rising food costs, increasing benefits by five percent for seniors, people with disabilities and very poor families with children. The economic recovery bill will: Grow our economy and create jobs by investing in highways, roads and bridges; Extend unemployment benefits for an additional seven weeks for Washingtonians looking for work; Increase aid for hungry families; and Ensure Americans do not lose health coverage as a result of state budget crises. ###
09.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) announced that $4.5 million she has included in a critical spending bill for 2010 Winter Olympics security preparations has passed the U.S. House of Representatives. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the resources for Olympics security, which he has also worked to support. The funding will go toward construction of an Olympic Coordination Center in Bellingham as well as training exercises for first responders. “The Olympic Games are right around the corner and this is a big step toward ensuring that we are beginning preparations today,” said Senator Murray. “For Whatcom County communities and the millions that will cross our northern border in 2010, we can’t be too safe and we can’t begin preparing too soon. Homeland security officials at the federal, state and local levels have all identified the funding in this bill as critical to protecting Washington state communities and travelers during the 2010 Olympics.”“It is critical that our region's security needs are met in time for the 2010 Olympic Games,” said Larsen, co-chair of the 2010 Olympics Task Force. “Local, state, and federal leaders must continue to work together as the clock ticks closer to February 12, 2010, when Opening Ceremonies begin. This funding is essential to meet our security needs, and I thank Senator Murray for her leadership to help keep Whatcom County safe for the Olympics and beyond.” “Lessons learned from numerous high-profile events show that to successfully combine the efforts of large numbers of agencies that operations should be conducted from a single command center with a unified command,” Major General Tim Lowenberg and FBI Special-Agent-in-Charge Laura Laughlin, co-chairs of the 2010 Olympic Security Planning Committee said earlier this summer. “The 2010 Olympics Security Coordination Center will coordinate the security efforts for over 40 federal, state and local agencies on the U.S. side of the U.S. – Canadian border. This facility will provide a strategic response platform to facilitate critical response efforts during the Olympic Games and beyond”. ###
09.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — More than $8 million for NAS Whidbey has passed the House as part of a continuing resolution to fund the federal government through March 6, 2009. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured $6.16 million for a new fire instructional facility and $2 million for joint electronic warfare training at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island as part of the package. The legislation must clear the Senate before the President can sign it into law. The resources Larsen helped secure for the fire instructional facility at NAS Whidbey would be used to replace the current, temporary facilities with a new, permanent 4,600 square foot building. Training to put out fires on aircraft is required for all crew members who deploy from the base. “A new, permanent fire instructional facility will help servicemen and women at NAS Whidbey get the training they need to be prepared for any contingency,” said Larsen. Larsen also secured $2 million for electronic warfare training at NAS Whidbey. Electronic warfare, or EW, is the battle to control the electromagnetic spectrum. EW is critical to our military’s fight against improvised explosive devices (IEDS) in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as protecting aircraft from enemy attack. The U.S. Navy’s Electronic Attack Weapons School at NAS Whidbey is the Armed Forces’ premier EW training facility. The School trains Prowler tactics instructors and certifies the combat readiness of each Prowler squadron, a role it will continue to play when the Growler fleet arrives. “Strengthening the electronic warfare capability of our entire military is more critical than ever before -- to help us win the fight against roadside bombs in Iraq and Afghanistan and succeed on many other missions,” said Larsen, who serves as co-chair of the Electronic Warfare Working Group in Congress. “No one plays a greater role in responding to this reality than the electronic warfare community at NAS Whidbey. I am proud to help support their work.” ###
09.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — One million dollars for Snohomish County’s new Emergency Operations Center (EOC) has passed the House as part of a continuing resolution to fund the federal government through March 6, 2009. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen secured the funding to help coordinate state and local government and Washington National Guard operations in case of an emergency or natural disaster. The legislation must clear the Senate before the President can sign it into law. “A modernized Emergency Operations Center will help our state and local first responders coordinate their efforts to protect our community in any emergency,” said Larsen. “This Center will improve Snohomish County’s ability to respond to any disaster we may face.” The new facility will serve as the primary administrative, training and operations location for the Snohomish County Department of Emergency Management and the main training facility for first responders and community volunteers throughout the Northwestern Washington region. One million in federal funding will allow Snohomish County to complete design and site work for the EOC, readying the site for construction. ###
09.23.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House floor this morning in celebration of the 40th anniversary of the North Cascades National Park. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Madame Speaker, I rise today to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the North Cascades National Park.“On October 2nd, 1968, President Johnson signed the North Cascades Act, and 680,000 acres of rugged peaks, mountain glaciers, old-growth forests, and salmon-bearing streams were protected forever. “North Cascades National Park became a reality thanks to the tireless efforts of local activists and bipartisan support from elected officials, including Senator Scoop Jackson, Representative Lloyd Meeds, and Governor Dan Evans. “The North Cascades are home to numerous endangered species, including the bald eagle, spotted owl, and grizzly bear. “The park is also home to world-class recreation areas. Families can hunt, fish, and boat in and around scenic mountain lakes.“During the last four decades, millions of Americans have experienced the beauty of the North Cascades. I want to thank all of the men and women who worked so hard to create the North Cascades National Park, and I invite all Americans to come visit this national treasure.” ###
09.21.2008	As the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA) weighs its options to decide the best home for NOAA's Marine Operations Center Pacific, our community is united in making the case for Bellingham. Bellingham offers a ready-to-go location for NOAA's fleet, a skilled labor pool and thriving marine trades industry, partnership opportunities with Whatcom County's institutions of higher learning and a strong commitment to NOAA's mission and future. When the Port of Bellingham launched the "Get NOAA" campaign in November 2007, our community stood united. Environmentalists, business owners, leaders from the marine trades industry, education leaders and elected officials stood hand-in-hand, eager to welcome NOAA's premier research fleet to Bellingham. Why is community support for NOAA so strong? NOAA's mission - "to understand and predict changes in Earth's environment and conserve and manage coastal and marine resources to meet our Nation's economic, social, and environmental needs" - is a natural fit for our community's values, goals and vision. Furthermore, NOAA would make a tremendous economic contribution to Bellingham's continued prosperity, generating $19 million for our local economy and creating 188 living-wage jobs. These new family-wage jobs would have a ripple effect, bringing new business to all sectors of our local economy. A Bellingham-based Marine Operations Center Pacific would create economic, research and education opportunities throughout our region. When the Georgia-Pacific plant closed this year, Bellingham lost jobs that NOAA would help replace. NOAA would be an economic engine for Bellingham's economy, not just another tenant in a city too big to notice. NOAA has much to offer Bellingham, but what does Bellingham offer NOAA? The best new homeport for the Marine Operations Center Pacific. The Port of Bellingham offers a location that is ready to meet NOAA's current and future needs. Our 220-acre waterfront offers facilities that are ready to go, piers that can be improved and expanded in the future, and a location that can't be beat. Direct access to the Straits of Georgia and Juan de Fuca will enhance NOAA's research mission and save fuel costs and other expenses. Whatcom County's thriving marine trades industry will provide NOAA's vessel operations with the skilled labor needed to keep their fleet strong. Our local marine trades industry already serves as a vital partner for NOAA's Pacific operations, delivering ships for NOAA's research fleet and doing repairs and maintenance on NOAA vessels. Bellingham offers a strong connection to education and research at our institutions of higher learning, which currently partner with NOAA on a number of research projects. A Bellingham-based NOAA facility would build on these partnerships and take advantage of research and education opportunities offered by Western Washington University and other area schools. Finally, the city and Port of Bellingham are committed to NOAA's success. The city of Bellingham is ready to help NOAA successfully transition its research vessels to our community by supporting and enhancing existing facilities, infrastructure and services. The Port of Bellingham will be a dedicated and reliable partner for NOAA. Port and city, together with our education partners, marine trades industry and local leaders, are committed to encouraging a thriving waterfront and supporting our marine trade industry with education and training investments. NOAA will be making a formal request for proposals by the end of the year. As NOAA officials move forward with their selection process, we stand ready to enthusiastically welcome NOAA's premier research fleet to Bellingham. NOAA has a blank slate to make their decision. Cities from around the region will be throwing their hats in the ring. Bellingham has a strong case to make, but we will also have a lot of competition. Bringing NOAA to Bellingham will require teamwork and strong, ongoing support from the community. We are confident the Bellingham community is up to the task. Rick Larsen is U.S. Representative for Washington's 2nd District. Doug Smith is president of the Port of Bellingham commission. Dan Pike is mayor of Bellingham.
09.18.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on House passage of the Commodity Markets Transparency & Accountability Act (HR 6604): “It is unacceptable that while American families are being punched at the pump, excessive speculation by energy traders may be driving up prices by as much as $20 to $60 per barrel. “If we want energy speculators to play by the rules, we need to put referees on the field. This legislation will strengthen enforcement by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, increase transparency in energy trading markets and end loopholes that shield oil and gas speculators from government oversight. “Yesterday, the House passed a comprehensive energy plan to create American jobs, bring down prices for working families paying too much at the pump, and help make us energy independent. Today’s legislation is another step to ensure that our energy policies put American families first.” ###
09.17.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today the House passed legislation affecting gun ownership in the District of Columbia. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) supported the National Capital Security and Safety Act (HR 6842) as originally introduced, but opposed the final bill after it was substantially altered by the Childers amendment: “I strongly support the 2nd Amendment and the right of law-abiding citizens to own and carry guns. “I supported the National Capital Security and Safety Act as originally written. This legislation instructed the District of Columbia to bring local law in line with the Supreme Court’s decision. The District of Columbia must comply with the Court’s decision to overturn the handgun ban. “However, I believe that the Childers amendment oversteps congressional authority in dictating local law. The District of Columbia has the right of self-government and the authority to write its own local laws, as do cities across the country. Congress must respect that authority. It is the responsibility of the local government – not Congress -- to pass legislation necessary to comply with the Supreme Court’s decision. “I will continue working to ensure that law-abiding citizens have the right to bear arms, a right guaranteed by the 2nd Amendment of the United States Constitution.” ###
09.17.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement today on The Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 6899), which passed the House last night by a vote of 236-189:“From talking to constituents in my district, I know that working families aren’t getting pinched at the pump, they are getting punched. For too long, our country has had an energy policy that doesn’t put American consumers and taxpayers first. That needs to change. “Earlier this year, Congress took the first step -- by passing the first increase in vehicle fuel efficiency standards in 32 years to save consumers money at the pump and protect our environment, and making new investments in American-grown, renewable energy. “Last night, the House took the next step and passed a landmark energy bill to: Lower gas prices for consumers; Create good-paying American jobs; Make a historic investment in renewable energy sources to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and increase our national security; Ensure that taxpayers get their fair share of energy royalties; And expand domestic drilling, offshore and on land. “This legislation is absolutely critical, and I urge the Senate to pass it and the President to sign it. “Our dependence on foreign oil is a threat to our national security, economy and environment. We need a comprehensive energy plan to create American jobs, bring down prices for working families paying too much at the pump, and help make us energy independent. We need that change now.” ###
09.11.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to protect critical transportation investments and nearly 380,000 jobs across the country, including 7,211 jobs in Washington state, by restoring the Highway Trust Fund, the primary source of federal funding for highways and bridges. The Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act (H.R. 6532) first passed the House in July and cleared the Senate yesterday after being amended to take effect immediately. Today’s final vote in House sends the bill to the President’s desk to be signed into law.“The Highway Trust Fund meets critical infrastructure needs and funds thousands of construction jobs in Washington state,” said Larsen. “Without this fix, the Highway Trust Fund will go broke within weeks, costing Washington state vital transportation funding and as many as 7,211 local jobs. I urge the President to sign the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act to help us fix this urgent problem.” In 2005, Congress passed a major surface transportation bill (SAFETEA-LU) which authorized billions of dollars for federal-aid highways and bridges, paid for by the Highway Trust Fund. Yet Highway Trust Fund revenues from the federal gas tax have fallen behind as high gas prices have led people to drive less and use less fuel. The legislative fix passed by the House today restores funds that were transferred from the Highway Trust Fund to the General Fund in 1998, complying with “pay-as-you-go” rules for fiscal responsibility. After the House first passed the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act in July, opposition from Senate Republicans delayed further progress until yesterday. On Friday September 5, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters announced her support for the Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act, legislation which the Administration had previously opposed, stating that without this fix the Highway Trust Fund will go broke by October 1. ###
09.10.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on news from the Defense Department that a decision on the Air Force’s refueling tanker program will be delayed until the next Administration. Larsen’s congressional district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant, assembly site for the 747, 767, 777 and 787.“Earlier this morning, I learned from the Department of Defense that it will delay any decision on the refueling tanker program until the next Administration.“This announcement is great news for Boeing’s workers – the best aerospace workers in the world -- and more importantly, it will help ensure a fair and competitive process to deliver the best tanker for the warfighter and the American taxpayer.“Secretary Gates’ decision today is a step in the right direction toward fair competition and a level playing field for Boeing. I look forward to hearing the details of the Defense Department’s plan. I am pleased that the Defense Department will be giving this process enough time to ensure that it is fair and competitive. “I look forward to working with the new Administration to ensure this process is done right, and that getting our men and women the right tanker as soon as possible is a top priority. “As the tanker selection process moves forward, I will encourage the new Administration to take into account how the tanker decision will affect our defense industrial base and our trade policy, including the effect of Airbus’s illegal subsidies. And I will work to ensure that the Defense Department and the Air Force don’t repeat the mistakes of the past.” ###
09.09.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen today renewed his call for Congress to pass a 2nd economic stimulus package to create jobs and strengthen our infrastructure by investing in roads, bridges and highways, and to help the Americans hurt the most by rising food costs and the economic downtown by providing more aid for food stamps.“We need a 2nd economic stimulus package to create jobs, strengthen our infrastructure and help the Americans struggling the most in this economic downturn,” said Larsen, who visited food banks in Snohomish county last week. During those visits, Larsen heard from his constituents about the rising cost of food and the influx of people turning to food banks for help. While the new farm bill passed by Congress this spring expands nutrition programs and nearly doubles funding for food banks and soup kitchens through the Emergency Food Assistance Program, Larsen says that more must be done. “The cost of food has gone through the roof, but the buying power of food stamps has failed to keep up,” said Larsen. “I urge the President and my colleagues in Congress to provide more help for Americans struggling with hunger and food insecurity.” Under current law, the amount of Food Stamp benefits available for families in need is based on out-of-date information that fails to take into account recent increases in food costs. According to a report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the most recent statistics available show that food stamp benefits provide $46 a month less than a family of four needs for a nutritionally adequate diet. Larsen, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said that the stimulus package must also include investments in our nation’s immediate transportation and infrastructure needs that will create jobs and give taxpayers a strong return on their investment. “Investing in infrastructure projects that are ready-to-go will create good-paying jobs, improve the safety of our roads and bridges and keep our economy moving. Every $1 billion we spend on transportation investments creates 47,000 new jobs in our communities.” Larsen also urged the Senate to pass and the President to sign legislation passed by the House in July to ensure that the Highway Trust Fund, the primary source of federal funding for highways and bridges, does not run out of funding in the coming weeks. On Friday, U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters announced that unless Congress and the President intervene, the Highway Trust Fund will go broke by October 1. “Restoring the Highway Trust Fund is critical for Washington state,” said Larsen. “I urge the Senate to pass and the President to sign our bill to protect Washington state from losing vital transportation funding and 7,211 local jobs.” ###
09.03.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on yesterday’s tragedy in Skagit County. “Today my thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this tragedy, their families, and everyone in our community who has lost a loved one. “My heart also goes out to the law enforcement officers who have lost a colleague. As first responders, you put yourselves at risk every day to keep our community safe. I know I don’t just speak for myself but for our community as a whole when I thank you for your service.” ###
08.28.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the announcement by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) of a $500,000 federal grant and a $575,000 loan to help Skagit County’s Farm Power Rexville, LLC launch a community anaerobic digester facility. Larsen had urged the USDA to approve federal funding for the project.“This USDA Rural Development grant for Farm Power is an investment in Skagit County agriculture, Washington state innovation and American energy independence,” said Larsen today.Two Skagit dairies will provide manure from 1,500 cows to Farm Power’s anaerobic digester. The anaerobic digester will then produce biogas to fuel a high-efficiency piston engine, generating electricity for sale to Puget Sound Energy’s electrical grid. Producing local power with an anaerobic digester will reduce natural gas imports for electricity production by roughly a quarter-million dollars per year, a small but important step toward energy independence. At the same time, capturing the methane emissions from the manure will reduce greenhouse-gas emissions as much as taking 1,500 cars off the road. “The Farm Bill's Section 9006 program helps communities make long-term investments that improve both local energy and agricultural infrastructure,” said Kevin Maas of Farm Power. “The two farmers participating in our project will start saving $10,000 a month on cow bedding as soon as the digester goes online, while the generator will produce enough power to supply 500 homes with electricity.”“The families on both of our partner dairy farms are transitioning to the next generation,” Maas continued. “They are committed to producing milk here in Skagit County for many years, and we want to work alongside them. The USDA grant and loan guarantees helps Farm Power make that investment happen.” In a letter dated June 16, 2008, Larsen wrote the USDA, urging them to consider Farm Power’s request for federal funding. “Farm Power’s digester project will allow agriculture to play a vital role in meeting Washington state and Skagit County objectives for renewable energy and environment protection projects while helping our farmers and dairy producers to modernize their property and practices,” wrote Larsen.“Farm Power is a sound investment that will benefit the agricultural community in Skagit Valley, providing jobs and sustainability for agriculture in Washington,” Larsen continued. ###
08.06.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the Department of Defense’s revised draft RFP for the aerial refueling tanker program. Larsen’s congressional district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant, assembly site for the 747, 767, 777 and 787.“The procurement process for the refueling tanker program must be a fair and open competition that reflects the best interests of the American warfighter and taxpayer. “After an initial review of the revised RFP, I have questions about the increased weight given to fuel offload capability. I also have questions about the lack of consideration given to our industrial base. American taxpayers and Boeing workers deserve answers to these questions.“When the GAO released their report in June, they determined that the Air Force made a number of significant errors in their initial selection. The GAO found that the Air Force failed to adequately evaluate the lower cost and greater capabilities of the Boeing tanker -- including the lower fuel costs of the Boeing plane -- and that they failed to take into account the higher military construction costs of the Airbus/ EADS tanker. “In the coming days, I will be reviewing this draft RFP very carefully and working with my colleagues to ensure that the Defense Department and the Air Force don’t make the same mistakes again. They will be held accountable for a fair, open and transparent process.” ###
08.01.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured $6.16 million for a new academic fire instructional facility at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island in the Military Construction and Veterans Administration appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2009, which passed the House today by a vote of 409 to 4. “A new, permanent fire instructional facility will help servicemen and women at NAS Whidbey train to fight fires and be ready for any contingency,” said Larsen. “I will continue working in Congress to support the men and women serving at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and Naval Station Everett. I will continue working to ensure that they have the resources they need to do their jobs.” The $6.16 million for NAS Whidbey would be used to replace the current, temporary facilities with a new, permanent 4,600 square-foot academic fire instructional facility. Any crew member who deploys from NAS Whidbey must be trained to put out fires on aircraft. The funding bill also includes an 11 percent increase in funding for the Veterans Administration, including $3.8 billion in funding for mental health, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury care. The legislation increases gas mileage reimbursement rates for veterans traveling to get health care at a VA facility from 28.5 to 41.5 cents per mile. Larsen has worked for years to increase mileage reimbursements rates, and in 2006 introduced the Rural Veterans Transportation Act to help rural veterans get the care they need.The legislation passed by the House today has been endorsed by major veterans’ organizations including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion, Disabled Veterans of America, Paralyzed Veterans of America, and AMVETS. ###
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Rick Larsen (D- WA 2nd) teamed up to introduce legislation in the Senate and House of Representatives that reauthorizes and expands the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative Act. The Northwest Straits Initiative's goal is to restore and protect marine habitat in the Northwest Straits. Most importantly, the legislation establishes and funds the Northwest Straits Commission which designs and initiates projects that address marine habitat restoration projects in the straits."This is a big step toward continuing the tremendous work the Northwest Straits Commission does to protect one of our state's most treasured resources," said Senator Murray. "Through the use of input from citizens, sound science, and a model that brings stakeholders together, the Northwest Straits Commission has gained national recognition for their conservation efforts. The legislation that Congressman Larsen and I introduced today will allow the Commission to continue to fund research, stewardship, and restoration efforts throughout the Northwest Straits." “The Northwest Straits Initiative is a grassroots effort that draws its strength from community cooperation,” said Rep. Larsen. “The Initiative has succeeded by bringing together a diverse group of local leaders who are committed to protecting this marine resource and the livelihoods that depend on it. The legislation Senator Murray and I introduced today will help the Commission continue its good work.” In the late 1990s, Washington communities were divided over how to protect marine resources in the Northwest Straits - an area in the Northwest part of Washington from the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Northern Puget Sound to the Canadian border. In 1997, Senator Murray and Congressman Jack Metcalf began to bring opposing stakeholders together to create an advisory commission that would address local marine conservation issues. At a time when few thought the experiment would work, their coordinated efforts created an innovative program for restoring and protecting marine habitats. In 1999, Congressman Rick Larsen joined the effort as a member of the Snohomish County Council and has been a staunch advocate of the Northwest Straits Initiative and the Commission's work ever since.Since it was first authorized by Congress in 1998 in the Polish Fishing Act, Senator Murray has helped secure over $8.4 million for the Northwest Straits Initiative. When Senator Murray first secured funding for the Northwest Straits Commission she did so with the requirement that after five years an independent panel would evaluate its progress. In 2004, a national evaluation panel of experts chaired by Bill Ruckelshaus declared the program worthwhile, encouraging Congress to continue supporting the Northwest Straits Commission.Today, the Northwest Straits Commission and its seven-county volunteer groups extend from Clallam, Jefferson, Whatcom, Skagit, San Juan, Island and Snohomish counties. The Northwest Straits Commission has shown that it is an effective model in restoring our marine ecosystems. The program awards grant funds which have been used to facilitate bottomfish recovery, conduct nearshore habitat inventories, protect forage fish species, establish marine protected areas, conduct habitat assessments remove, fishing nets and facilitate education and outreach.The Northwest Straits Commission is a grassroots effort that involves representatives from county, tribal, state and federal governments, non-profit organizations and volunteers who are working together to protect and restore marine resources in northern Puget Sound. ###
07.31.2008	Washington, D.C. — Congress is poised to pass legislation to protect children from dangerous toys by strengthening the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and increasing fines for those who produce faulty products, as U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) proposed in legislation introduced last fall. “The legislation we passed this week strengthens the Consumer Product Safety Commission so unsafe toys and other products are found before they reach hands of our children,” said Larsen. “By increasing the maximum penalties for companies that make unsafe toys, this legislation ensures that those who put our children at risk face consequences with real teeth and not just a slap on the wrist.”Last year, 45 million toys and children’s products were recalled from stores across the country. Yet the CPSC, the agency tasked with protecting American consumers from unsafe products, has been dangerously underfunded and understaffed in recent years. Even the CPSC’s acting director admitted last year that there was only one “lonely” toy tester at the commission. Larsen and his colleague Mark Kirk (IL-10) responded to this crisis by introducing the bipartisan Import Safety Act of 2007 (H.R. 3100), legislation which increased fines for companies who make unsafe products and strengthened the CPSC’s ability to stop dangerous toys from reaching store shelves. Similar provisions were included in the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (H.R. 4040), which passed the House on Wednesday by a nearly unanimous vote. The bill is expected to clear the Senate as early as today. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act: Authorizes increased funding for the Consumer Product Safety Commission and increases criminal penalties for companies who make faulty products; Bans lead beyond a minute amount in products intended for children under 12 years of age; Prohibits use of the potentially dangerous chemicals called phthalates in children’s toys and child care articles; Requires manufacturers to place distinguishing marks on products and packaging to aid in recalls of products; Requires CPSC to provide consumers with a user-friendly database on deaths and serious injuries caused by consumer products; And provides whistleblower protections for private-sector employees regarding alleged violations of any CPSC-enforced product safety requirements. ###
07.28.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) reminded his constituents – including low-income seniors and disabled veterans – who wouldn’t otherwise have to file a 2007 tax return to do so by October 15th in order to get their economic stimulus checks from the federal government. According to statistics released this week by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, more than 17,800 2nd District residents are at risk of missing out on their stimulus checks if they don’t file by the October deadline. “With the high cost of food and gas, money is tight these days for many of my constituents,” said Larsen. “I want to make sure that all of my constituents – including low-income seniors and disabled veterans -- know what they need to do to get their economic stimulus checks from the federal government.” Under the economic stimulus package passed by Congress in February, 20 million low-income seniors, disabled veterans and others who are not usually required to file a tax return with the IRS must do so by October 15th in order to receive a stimulus check. According to the IRS, a quarter of these individuals have yet to file the paperwork necessary to receive their $300 payments ($600 for married couples). IRS employees are available help with the necessary paperwork at Taxpayer Assistance Centers, including locations in Everett and Bellingham. For more information, visit www.irs.gov or call the toll-free Rebate Hotline at 1-866-234-2942.County-by-County breakdown of eligible constituents who haven’t yet filed: 10,552 in Snohomish County 3,604 in Whatcom County 2,395 in Skagit County 1,295 in Island County ###
07.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to temporarily release nearly 10 percent of the government’s Strategic Petroleum Reserve to increase the supply of oil available and help bring down gas prices for American consumers. The Consumer Energy Supply Act (H.R. 6578) failed to pass the House today by a vote of 268 to 157. The bill was considered under a suspension of the rules, which requires a two-thirds majority for passage. “In Washington state today, the average price of a gallon of gas is $4.28,” said Larsen. “Consumers need relief, and they need it now. I am disappointed that this legislation – which could bring quick relief for my constituents paying too much at the pump – failed to pass the House today.” The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is an emergency store of petroleum kept by the U.S. Department of Energy to guard against any future disruptions in our oil supply. The Reserve is currently more than 97 percent full, the highest level ever. In May, the House voted to suspend new shipments of oil to the Reserve, a proposal later backed by the President and the U.S. Department of Energy. Tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the past has led to dramatic drops in the price of oil. The most recent release of oil from the Reserve in 2005 led to a 9 percent drop in gas prices. The legislation considered today would temporarily release oil from the Reserve and replace it later with heavier, cheaper crude oil – as the U.S. Department of Energy has previously recommended – to help bring down gas prices. In addition to today’s bill, Congress has worked to get gas prices under control: Took action to investigate price gouging and ensure that retailers aren’t artificially inflating the cost of gas Directed the Federal Trade Commission to crack down on energy market manipulation that may be driving up prices by as much as $20 to $60 more per barrel Suspended oil shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to increase the supply of oil available Congress has taken action to reduce our dependence on foreign oil: Passed a landmark energy bill that invests in alternative fuels and makes cars and trucks more fuel-efficient, saving consumers $22 billion at the pump in one year alone Passed investments in renewable and alternative energy and reduced taxpayer subsidies for oil companies Passed a Farm Bill that makes a historic investment in biofuels made from crops other than grain Larsen has also voted to make oil companies to “use it or lost it” -- start drilling on the sixty-eight million acres of federal land they have already leased, or give up the leases so they are available for someone else to drill. ###
07.23.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to ensure that the Highway Trust Fund – the primary source of federal funding for highways and bridges – has the funding needed to maintain our infrastructure and help keep our economy moving. The Highway Trust Fund Restoration Act (H.R. 6532) passed the House today by a vote of 387-37. “Restoring the Highway Trust Fund is critical for our state,” said Larsen. “This legislative fix will protect Washington state from losing 34 percent of our federal highway funding, approximately $207 million in the next fiscal year alone. If Congress fails to act, Washington state could lose over 7,000 jobs, according to the U.S. Department of Transportation.”Congress’ major surface transportation bill (SAFETEA-LU) passed in 2005 authorized billions of dollars for federal-aid highways and bridges, paid for by the Highway Trust Fund. Unfortunately, Highway Trust Fund revenues from the federal gas tax have fallen behind the amount predicted when SAFETEA-LU became law. Today’s bill restores $8.017 billion to the Highway Trust Fund that was transferred from the Highway Trust Fund to the General Fund in 1998. ###
07.23.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen joined a majority of his colleagues in the House to pass the most comprehensive housing legislation in a generation to restore confidence in the housing market, help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, and protect the largest and most important investment for millions of American families. Senate passage is expected, and earlier today the President announced that he would sign the legislation. “Today Congress took action to protect the most important investment millions of families have – their homes,” said Larsen. “If home ownership is the heart of our economy, this legislation is the CPR we need.” The number of American homeowners filing for foreclosure was up 50 percent in June compared with a year ago. Three to four million families are expected to lose their homes to foreclosure because they cannot afford their high-interest loans. And the slump in the housing market has hurt other parts of the economy, contributing to a decline in consumer confidence and spending and a loss of construction jobs. The American Housing Rescue & Foreclosure Prevention Act (H.R. 3221): Restores confidence in the housing market by putting a new, independent regulator in charge of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- which back more than half of home mortgages in the country -- and giving the Treasury Department the authority to intervene if needed Expands affordable mortgage opportunities for families by permanently increasing loan limits from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration Helps families in danger of losing their home refinance into lower-cost, government-insured mortgages they can afford to repay – at no cost to the American taxpayer Provides a tax break for first-time homebuyers of up to $7,500 to be paid back interest-free over 15 years Creates a new affordable housing trust fund to boost the availability of affordable rental housing in both rural and urban areas for low and very low-income Americans Expands homeownership opportunities for veterans “Too many families have lived through a foreclosure nightmare,” Larsen continued. “This legislation will help restore the American dream of homeownership.” ###
07.21.2008	Washington, D.C.— International trade and investments in transportation are critical to Washington state’s economy, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) told the Everett Chamber of Commerce in his keynote address today. “In Washington state, trade and transportation investments create jobs,” said Larsen. In his remarks, Larsen announced his support for a free trade agreement with South Korea, the 5th largest export market for Washington state products.“In 2007, Washington state exported nearly $3 billion in goods and services to South Korea,” said Larsen. “The U.S.-Korea free trade agreement is the key trade deal for Washington state, and I will work to bring it up for a vote in Congress.” Larsen also stressed the need for Congress to update Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) legislation to expand coverage to more workers, including those in the service industries, and to invest in retraining and health care for those adversely affected by trade.“We need to upgrade our Trade Adjustment Assistance to help 21st century workers in a 21st century economy,” stressed Larsen. “We must also increase investments in education, worker training and innovation to make American businesses more competitive in the global marketplace.” Larsen drove home the importance of investments in transportation to keep the local economy running strong. “The U.S. Department of Transportation estimates that each $1 billion of new transportation spending creates 47,000 new jobs,” said Larsen, a Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “Looking toward the future, it is more critical than ever that our transportation system is efficient and reliable.” In May, Larsen held transportation roundtables across Northwest Washington to hear from local stakeholders and transportation leaders as Congress prepares to write the next major surface transportation bill in the coming year. ###
07.17.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to help get gas prices under control by making oil producers “use or lose” land they have already leased, and by increasing our domestic supply of oil from land already designated for energy production. The legislation (H.R. 6515) failed to pass the House today under a suspension of the rules which requires a two-thirds majority for passage. “With the price of gas reaching record levels, families in my district aren’t getting pinched at the pump, they are getting punched,” said Larsen. In Bellingham today, the average price of a regular gallon of gas was around $4.44, while in Everett the average price over the last two days was approximately $4.31. “Today’s legislation is part of the comprehensive energy strategy we need to reduce prices at the pump and break our addiction to foreign oil,” Larsen continued. “It’s time for oil companies to “use it or lost it”. They need to start drilling now on the land they have already leased, or let someone else take over who will.”Sixty-eight million acres of federal land have been leased by oil companies for energy production but remain unused – that’s 75% of all lands leased for production. The legislation Larsen voted for today will require producers to drill on the leases they already have or give them up. In addition, the legislation would reinstate a ban on the foreign export of Alaskan oil and speed the development of the 20-million-acre National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPR-A) which is already designated for oil and gas production. NPR-A is eligible for more leasing right now, unlike the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) and protected coastal areas. NPR-A has the potential to provide an estimated 10.6 billion barrels for our domestic oil supply.This year, Congress has cracked down on energy market manipulation and price-gouging, helped Americans save money at the pump by making cars more fuel-efficient, and made critical investments in cleaner fuels. In addition to today’s bill, Congress has worked to get gas prices under control: Took action to investigate price gouging and ensure that retailers aren’t artificially inflating the cost of gas Directed the Federal Trade Commission to crack down on energy market manipulation that may be driving up prices by as much as $20 to $60 more per barrel Suspended oil shipments to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to increase the supply of oil available Congress has taken action to reduce our dependence on foreign oil: Passed a landmark energy bill that invests in alternative fuels and makes cars and trucks more fuel-efficient, saving consumers $22 billion at the pump in one year alone Passed investments in renewable and alternative energy and reduced taxpayer subsidies for oil companies Passed a Farm Bill that makes a historic investment in biofuels made from crops other than grain ###
07.16.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee held a hearing on the Coast Guard’s capabilities in the Arctic region, as U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) had requested earlier this year. Larsen called for the hearing due to concerns that the Coast Guard’s polar icebreaking fleet is ill-equipped to meet the challenges posed by declining Arctic sea ice, increasing vessel traffic and international interest in the region’s oil and gas resources. “A coherent Arctic policy and a strong Arctic icebreaking fleet are more critical now than ever before,” said Larsen. “But despite the Coast Guard’s best efforts to prepare for the challenges we face, they currently lack the tools needed to perform even the most basic Arctic operations -- conducting patrols and breaking ice. Nations from around the world are racing to protect their interests in the Arctic region, and right now the United States is in last place.” At today’s hearing, Larsen heard testimony from Admiral Allen, Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard and other witnesses. All three of the Coast Guard’s icebreaking vessels are homeported in Seattle. The text of Larsen’s opening statement as prepared for delivery follows: “Mr. Chairman, I would like to start by thanking you for holding this hearing. As you know, I requested that this Committee hold a hearing on the Coast Guard’s polar icebreaking fleet. I am very interested to hear from the Coast Guard on this issue, and I hope that it will be a productive and informative hearing. “I have serious concerns with the future of the Coast Guard’s polar icebreaking fleet. Two of the three multi-mission icebreakers, the Polar Sea and the Polar Star – both of which are home-ported in Seattle – are nearing the end of their service lives. The Polar Star is in caretaker status and is close to being decommissioned. “Our nation’s icebreaking capability has been diminished substantially, at a time when these icebreakers are needed more than ever. It is expected that vessel traffic in the Arctic Ocean will increase dramatically as Arctic sea ice continues to decline. More maritime traffic, especially in such challenging conditions, will require an increased Coast Guard presence. I am concerned that the Coast Guard does not have the resources and assets it needs to carry out increased operations in this region. “I know that Admiral Allen has paid quite a bit of attention to this issue over the past few years, and that the Coast Guard is currently conducting several Arctic initiatives, including Arctic Domain Awareness flights, testing of a seasonal Arctic forward operating location, waterways analysis, and risk assessments. “However, despite the Coast Guard’s best efforts to prepare for future operations in the Arctic region, they do not currently have the assets and the capability necessary to perform the most basic of Arctic operations: conducting patrols and icebreaking. The Coast Guard doesn’t even have budgetary and management control over its polar icebreaking fleet. “Mr. Chairman, these are serious issues that demand our attention. Once again, thank you for holding this hearing, and I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.” ###
07.09.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the announcement made today by Defense Secretary Robert Gates and top Air Force officials regarding the procurement process for the approximately $35 billion tanker program. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and his district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant where Boeing would build the next generation of refueling tankers for our military.“The Defense Department’s decision to heed the GAO’s report and rebid the tanker contract is good news for American taxpayers, Boeing workers and the men and women who serve in our military. It is my view that Secretary of Defense Gates has taken the GAO’s recommendations seriously, and that he has stepped in to get the selection process back on track. Today’s announcement brought common sense back to the tanker selection process. “In the coming days, I will work to ensure that the Defense Department accurately incorporates the GAO’s recommendations into the new source selection process to provide our men and women in our military with the best refueling tanker for our national security. I will work to make sure American taxpayers don’t foot the bill for a less capable, more expensive and illegally-subsidized European tanker. And I will continue to fight for Boeing jobs and the investments that create them. “The GAO’s report released last month made it clear that the Air Force failed to adequately evaluate the greater capabilities and lower cost of the Boeing tanker. The Air Force failed to follow their own criteria in evaluating the tankers’ capabilities. They failed to take into account the higher military construction costs of the Airbus/ EADS proposal. And they failed to consider the superior fuel efficiency of the Boeing tanker and the money it would save the American taxpayer.“As the Defense Department moves forward with rebidding the tanker contract, I urge them to consider the broader implications of their choice. Awarding this contract to Airbus/EADS would reward European governments for illegal subsidies and do serious damage to our U.S. defense industrial base.”“Tomorrow, I will join my House Armed Services Committee colleagues to question top Air Force officials and Defense Department officials about what went wrong with the tanker selection process and what they are doing to make it right. I can assure the Air Force that feet will be held to the fire until the American people get the answers they deserve and our military gets the tanker they need.” ###
07.02.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) were joined today in Mount Vernon by VA Puget Sound Health Care System director Stan Johnson and local veterans and leaders to announce the permanent site of the Northwest Washington Community Based Outpatient Clinic (CBOC). For a number of years, Murray and Larsen have pressed the VA to open a community-based outpatient clinic in Northwest Washington, advocating on behalf of many local veterans who spend hours in traffic to get medical care at the VA hospital in Seattle. “This clinic will -- at long last -- bring veterans health care closer to veterans in Northwest Washington,” said Larsen, “Local veterans have led the way in bringing this clinic to Northwest Washington, and Senator Murray and I have been proud to be your advocates in Congress to help make this clinic a reality. Together, we will keep working until the doors of this clinic are open for business and veterans can get the care they need closer to home.” “Northwest Washington veterans have fought for our freedoms, they have fought for this facility, and they are on the verge of finally having access to the quality care they deserve,” Senator Murray said. "Rep. Larsen and I have been proud to partner with veterans on this clinic and we will stand with them until the doors to this facility open.”The permanent clinic, located near Skagit Valley Hospital at 307 South 13th Street in Mount Vernon, will bring health care closer to home for Skagit, North Snohomish, Whatcom, Island and San Juan county veterans. After more than six years of working with local veterans on this issue, Murray and Larsen praised the VA's announcement in February 2007 of plans to open a community-based outpatient clinic in the Mount Vernon area. In February 2008, the VA opened a temporary mobile clinic at Skagit Valley Hospital to provide primary and mental health services to some veterans enrolled in the VA system. In May 2008, this temporary clinic moved to a larger facility on the campus of United General Hospital in Sedro-Woolley to offer expanded services to a larger number of veterans.The VA plans to open the permanent clinic in late spring or early summer of 2009. In addition to offering primary care services, the clinic will provide mental health, social work, pharmacy, eye, ear, x-ray and dental care. According to VA estimates, the permanent clinic could eventually serve more than 6,500 veterans.###
06.27.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured federal dollars for Skagit County priorities in a House funding bill passed by the Appropriations Committee this week. The Energy and Water appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2009 includes $250,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study and $380,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the Swinomish Channel to keep it navigable for local commerce. The final bill must pass the House and Senate before it can be signed into law. Larsen helped secure the following appropriations in the funding bill: $250,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study “It is critical that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers complete the Skagit River General Investigation study so our community can move forward with needed flood control projects,” said Larsen. “I will continue working to deliver federal funds to help protect Skagit families, farms and businesses from future floods.” “During this time of massive flooding destruction in the Midwest we are looking to complete the GI study for Skagit County,” said Skagit County Commissioners Don Munks, Ken Dahlstedt and Sharon Dillon. “Thank you for your hard work regarding this important funding effort and we thank you for your assistance in previous years.”$380,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the Swinomish Channel“According to the Port of Skagit County, around 340 local jobs depend on the Swinomish Channel being properly maintained,” said Larsen. “Federal funding to dredge the Swinomish Channel will help local boat builders, fisherman and others create jobs in our community.” “The Port of Skagit County thanks Congressman Larsen and his staff for their dedicated persistence and focused hard work to obtain funding for the dredging of the Swinomish Channel,” said Patsy Martin, Executive Director for the Port of Skagit County. “Maintaining a dredged channel is vital to the economic health of the La Conner Marina, Town of La Conner, Swinomish Tribe and Skagit County. Boat builders, log processors, rock haulers, fishers and many others will be able to maintain and grow jobs due to the dredging paid for by this funding. Again, thank you Congressman Larsen.” ###
06.27.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured one million dollars in federal funding for Snohomish County’s new Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in a House funding bill passed by the Appropriations Committee this week. The Homeland Security appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2009 – which includes the EOC funding for Snohomish County -- must pass the House and Senate before it can be signed into law. “A modernized Emergency Operations Center will help state and local first responders coordinate their activities to respond effectively in any emergency,” said Larsen. “This Center will maximize our community’s ability to respond to any emergency we may face. I will continue working in Congress to give our first responders the tools they need to keep our community safe.” “Our proposed EOC will provide maximum security and flexibility during different types of disasters that might occur in Snohomish County,” Executive Aaron Reardon said. “Congressman Larsen’s appropriation is very welcome news, and we thank him for his efforts in securing this funding.”The Snohomish County EOC will support state and local government and Washington National Guard operations in case of an emergency or natural disaster. The new facility will also serve as the primary administrative, training and operations location for the Snohomish County Department of Emergency Management and the main training facility for first responders and community volunteers throughout the northwestern Washington region. This funding will allow Snohomish County to complete design and site work for the EOC, readying the site for construction. ###
06.26.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured federal dollars to help local law enforcement fight crime and combat the meth epidemic as part of a funding bill passed by the House Appropriations Committee. The final bill must pass the House and Senate before it can be signed into law. “It is critical that local law enforcement gets the tools they need to protect our community,” said Larsen. “As Congress moves forward with the appropriations process, I will continue working to deliver needed resources for local law enforcement and local initiatives to fight drugs and crime.” In the Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations bill which passed the Appropriations Committee this week, Larsen secured: $1.1 million for the Washington State Meth Initiative“The Washington State Meth Initiative is thrilled with the $1.1 million House funding amount and very much appreciates Congressman Larsen’s leadership to make it happen,” said Terree Schmidt-Whelan of the Washington State Meth Initiative. “It is our congressional leaders who make funding possible so that effective and blended community-based multi-disciplinary methamphetamine programs and strategies continue.” $50,000 to purchase new equipment for the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force“This type of federal funding is crucial for local drug task forces to keep up with the escalating illicit drug threat we are facing,” said Pat Slack, Commander of the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force. $25,000 for the Skagit County Drug Enforcement Unit “If this money is approved it will be a huge benefit to our unit and subsequently for the citizens of Skagit County,” said Will Reichardt, Chief Criminal Deputy for the Skagit County Sheriff's Office about the funding for Skagit County. “Our plan is to purchase some much-needed surveillance equipment that will allow us to track suspects and monitor their activities at night. We also plan to purchase some portable radios that will have an encrypted tactical channel that will greatly enhance officer safety. With the cuts in our Byrne grants, this money will go a long way in keeping our task force a viable and effective unit that can really make a difference in the drug problems in Skagit County.” In addition, Larsen secured: $80,000 to purchase and install additional laptops and software for the Island County Sheriff’s Office to use in their patrol cars; and $295,000 to expand and improve information sharing between Whatcom County law enforcement agencies through the Whatcom Exchange Network (WENET). ###
06.26.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured $6.18 million in a House funding bill for a new academic fire instructional facility at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. The Military Construction appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2009 -- including the funding for NAS Whidbey – passed the Appropriations Committee this week and must pass the House and the Senate before it can be signed into law. “A new, permanent facility will help servicemen and women at NAS Whidbey train to fight fires on aircraft and be ready for any contingency,” said Larsen. “I will continue working in Congress to deliver federal resources for NAS Whidbey and Island County priorities.” The $6.18 million Larsen helped secure would be used to replace the current, temporary facilities with a new, permanent 4,600 square foot academic fire instructional facility. Any crew member who deploys from NAS Whidbey must be trained to put out fires on aircraft. ###
06.26.2008	Washington, D.C. — In May, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) -- joined by twenty six of his colleagues in the House -- sent a letter to President Bush raising concerns that the Air Force’s selection of the Airbus/ EADS consortium for the $35 billion refueling tanker contract exposes a troubling rift in U.S. trade and defense procurement policy. This week, Larsen received a response to his letter from the Pentagon. To view the full text of the Administration’s response to Larsen’s letter, click here. Larsen released the following statement today: “The full text released yesterday of the independent GAO’s decision to sustain Boeing’s protest makes it crystal clear that Air Force needs to reopen, reevaluate and rebid the tanker contract. It is now incumbent on the Air Force to heed the GAO’s recommendations and rebid this contract. I can assure the Air Force that Congress will hold them accountable to get this done right.“As Congress works to ensure that our American military and taxpayers get the best refueling tanker for our nation’s security, we must remember that there are problems with the Airbus/EADS tanker that go beyond the scope of the GAO’s report. These problems include the troubling rift in our nation’s trade and procurement policy that has been exposed by the Air Force’s decision. “The Airbus/EADS tanker proposal is built on a foundation of subsidies from European taxpayers, subsidies that the U.S. government has determined are illegal and has filed a World Trade Organization case to stop. The fact that one arm of the U.S. government has selected an illegally-subsidized plane while another arm is challenging those same subsidies in the WTO puts the Administration on a collision course with itself.“In May I sent a letter with twenty six of my colleagues raising these concerns. Unfortunately, the Administration’s response was totally inadequate.“I will continue to work to ensure that the United States has a unified and equitable trade and procurement policy that ensures the American taxpayer does not foot the bill for foreign imports that are in clear violation of WTO rules.” ###
06.25.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the full text of the Government Accountability Office (GAO)’s report out today on the Air Force’s procurement process for the approximately $35 billion tanker program. Larsen’s congressional district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant, production site for the 767 airframe which Boeing would use to build the next generation of refueling tankers for our military. “The full text of the GAO’s decision makes it crystal clear that the tanker contract needs to be reopened, reevaluated and rebid. For Boeing workers and American taxpayers, this report can be summed up in two words: “rebid and rejoice!”“The GAO has determined that the Air Force made a number of significant errors in their selection of the Airbus/EADS proposal. Among other errors, the Air Force failed to adequately evaluate the lower cost and greater capabilities of the Boeing tanker. They failed to follow their own criteria in evaluating the tankers’ capabilities. And they failed to take into account the higher military construction costs of the Airbus/ EADS proposal.“The GAO has also determined that the Air Force’s evaluation of the fuel costs of the two proposals did not go far enough. The GAO report finds that even a small difference in fuel efficiency “would have a dramatic impact on the overall fuel costs”. When the Air Force reconsiders their selection, they must take into account the superior fuel efficiency of the Boeing tanker and the money this will save the American taxpayer.“The GAO report states that, but for the Air Force’s errors, “we believe that Boeing would have had a substantial chance of being selected” for the tanker contract.“If, after reading this report, the Air Force thinks they can move forward with this contract without heeding the GAO’s recommendations and rebidding this contract, the problems at the Air Force go well beyond the tanker program.” ###
06.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to prevent a pending 10.6 percent payment cut for physicians providing care to seniors on Medicare and military families on TRICARE. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (H.R. 6331) passed the House today by a large, bipartisan majority of 355 to 59. The payment cut is scheduled to go into effect on July 1 unless this bill becomes law.“Today Congress took action to keep doctors’ offices open for thousands of Washington seniors, service members and military retirees who depend on Medicare and TRICARE,” said Larsen. “Washington families are struggling with rising health care costs and we must do more to make medical care affordable and accessible.” Medicare provides health care coverage to 43 million seniors, including more than 760,000 patients in Washington state alone. TRICARE is U.S. military's medical benefits program and provides health care coverage to service members, military families and retirees. Because Medicare often reimburses physicians for less than the actual cost of care, some doctors are declining to treat Medicare patients or are closing their offices altogether. Compared to other states, Washington state already has a low number of practicing physicians per patient -- 25 for every 100,000 patients. If the 10.6 percent payment cut goes through as scheduled, Washington state could lose $98 million in health care funds, according to the American Medical Association. ###
06.20.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today against the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Amendments Act of 2008. Larsen released the following statement: “Americans who may have been the targets of illegal surveillance have the right to a fair hearing in a federal court. But as a result of this bill, the Bush Administration could be let off the hook for its warrantless wiretapping program.“The question our federal courts should be allowed to decide – free from congressional intervention -- is whether the law was broken, not whether the Administration wrote permission slips to break it.“I have supported legislation to establish a strong, effective FISA court and provide the intelligence community with the tools it needs to protect us. But the Bush Administration has placed greater importance on retroactive immunity. This is nothing less than an attempt to protect itself from the legal consequences of its actions at the expense of our national security.”In November 2007 and in March 2008, Larsen voted for legislation which would have clarified and expanded current FISA law to provide the intelligence community with the tools it needs to keep us safe while maintaining basic rights for American citizens. ###
06.19.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today voted for supplemental appropriations legislation -- passed as two amendments to the Senate version of H.R. 2642 -- which will strengthen education benefits for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, help unemployed workers in Washington state and across the country and provide funding for U.S. missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. The President has indicated that he will sign the bill as written. “We owe a great debt to the men and women who serve our county in the military,” said Larsen. “This legislation strengthens the GI Bill to help veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get the education and job-training they need to succeed.”Current GI Bill benefits cover only about 70 percent of a public college education and 30 percent of a private college education. The expanded GI Bill will restore full, four-year college scholarships to veterans who serve at least 90 days of active-duty service after September 11, 2001. The legislation also extends the time period these veterans have to use their education benefits before they expire from ten to fifteen years. “Today’s legislation is a huge step forward for veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, but we cannot forget the debt we owe veterans from earlier conflicts,” Larsen continued. “I will keep working to pass legislation to remove the time limit on GI Bill education benefits so all veterans can get the education and job training they need at any point after leaving the service.” Because many veterans who pay into the GI Bill program postpone returning to school to care for their families or recover from service-related injuries, only 59 percent of those enrolled take advantage of their education benefits before the current ten-year limit expires, according to the latest statistics available from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.For the past several years, Larsen has worked to pass the GI Bill for Life Act (H.R. 2247), legislation he introduced with U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell to remove the time limit on GI Bill Education benefits entirely so veterans can access educational and vocational training at any point after leaving military service. The supplemental appropriations legislation approved by the House today includes $161.8 billion to support the cost of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through the summer of 2009.The legislation also provides a 13-week extension of unemployment benefits for workers who are unable to find a job in today’s struggling economy. For the fifth straight month, the economy lost jobs, with 49,000 jobs lost in May alone -- the largest one-month spike in 22 years. 1.6 million Americans have been unemployed more than six months. In Washington state, more than 14,000 workers have exhausted their unemployment insurance benefits since November 2007, making it difficult for them to provide for themselves and their families. In Skagit County, the unemployment rate rose to 5.6 percent last month, while Snohomish County unemployment rose to 4.6 percent.In addition to the provisions described above, the legislation provides: An additional $863 million over the President’s request for military hospitals $696 million, $475 million above the President’s request to address the refugee crisis in Iraq and elsewhere An additional $396 million over the President’s request for VA medical facilities An additional $150 million for the Food and Drug Administration to strengthen efforts to ensure food and medical product safety ###
06.18.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the Government Accountability Office (GAO)’s report out today on the Air Force’s procurement process for the approximately $35 billion tanker program. Larsen’s congressional district is home to Boeing’s Everett plant, production site for the 767 airframe which Boeing would use to build the next generation of refueling tankers for our military.“The report released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) today is a huge victory for Boeing workers, American taxpayers, our nation’s security, and a fair, transparent procurement process."When the Air Force announced their decision on February 29, they summed up their selection of the Airbus/EADS tanker in one word: “more”, saying it offered “more passengers, more cargo, more fuel to offload.” "If I could sum up this decision in one word it would be “more”. Boeing offered a more cost-effective plane. The Air Force needed to have more transparency in this decision. And when the Air Force rebids this contract, we need to have a more fair process. “The GAO has determined that the Air Force made a number of significant errors in their selection of the Airbus/EADS proposal. The Air Force failed to adequately evaluate the lower cost and greater capabilities of the Boeing tanker. They failed to follow their own criteria in evaluating the tankers’ capabilities. And they failed to take into account the higher military construction costs of the Airbus/ EADS proposal.“We still need to look at the broader implications of the Air Force’s decision, including the damage the Air Force’s selection will do to our defense industrial base and economy and the impact of illegal subsidies on the Airbus/EADS proposal. American taxpayers should not foot the bill for a product made in clear violation of WTO rules.“In the coming days, I will work to ensure that the Air Force follow the GAO’s recommendations to provide our men and women in our military with the best refueling tanker for our national security. I will work to make sure American taxpayers don’t foot the bill for a less capable, more expensive and illegally-subsidized European tanker. And I will continue to fight for Boeing jobs and the investments that create them.“I would encourage Members of the House who were waiting for the GAO to read this decision very carefully. I look forward to working with the Air Force and my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to make sure this process is done right the next time.” ###
06.12.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to extend unemployment benefits to provide relief and help keep food on the table for 3.8 million Americans looking for work, 54,000 in Washington state. Larsen joined his House colleagues to pass the Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (H.R. 5749) by a vote of 274 -137 to immediately provide up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits to workers who exhaust the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. The bill must pass the Senate before it can be signed into law. In May, the U.S. unemployment rate surged from 5.0 percent to 5.5 percent, the biggest one-month jump in more than twenty years. Food and fuel costs have skyrocketed in recent months adding additional pressure on the millions of Americans looking for work. In Washington state more than 14,000 workers have exhausted their unemployment insurance benefits since November 2007, making it difficult to for them to provide for themselves and their families. Estimates show that as many as 40,000 more will exhaust their benefits in the coming year unless today’s bill becomes law. The legislation passed today would help an estimated 54,000 unemployed Washington state workers. “Unemployed workers in Washington state face a slowing economy and record-high prices at the grocery store and the gas station,” said Larsen. “Main Street needs help now. Extending unemployment benefits is a smart investment that will help create jobs, and it’s the right thing to do.” Since April, Larsen has called for Congress to pass a second economic stimulus package including two main elements, a package of infrastructure investments in projects that are ready to go and an extension of federal unemployment benefits for Americans looking for work. ###
06.12.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined a majority in the House today to pass legislation to invest in Amtrak and help provide affordable and accessible transportation for Americans struggling with high fuel costs. By a veto-proof majority of 311 to 104, the House passed the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act (H.R. 6003), a bipartisan bill to expand Amtrak and construct high-speed rail on high-density corridors across the nation. Amtrak’s last authorization expired in 2002. “With gas prices in Northwest Washington at record highs and airlines struggling to pay for fuel, the need for affordable, accessible passenger rail service has never been greater,” said Larsen, a cosponsor of the bill and member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which wrote the legislation. “This legislation will strengthen our national investment in rail service and help keep our economy moving.” As gas prices continue to skyrocket – topping an average $4 per gallon for the first time in history last week -- demand for cost-efficient public transportation systems, including passenger rail, is on the rise. According to the Bellingham Herald, the average price for a gallon of unleaded gas hit $4.33 in the Bellingham area on Tuesday. In Everett, the average price per gallon topped $4.20. Nearly 677,000 passengers rode the Amtrak Cascades during 2007, a 7.4 increase from 2006, according to Lloyd Flem of All Aboard Washington. During the first quarter of 2008 alone, ridership increased by 13 percent compared to the same period last year. “Demand for train service in our region is coming on fast and strong,” said Flem. “This legislation will be extraordinarily helpful in providing federal resources to improve tracks and infrastructure and purchase new trains.” Among other provisions, the bill provides $4.2 billion to Amtrak for competitive capital grants for capital costs and equipment, $2.5 billion in grants to states to help pay for the capital costs of new or improved inter-city passenger rail service and $1.75 billion for states and Amtrak to construct high-speed rail corridors. ###
06.06.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today the President signed into law the SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act of 2008 (H.R. 1195), a bill that includes a legislative fix secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to provide funds for the U.S. 2/Sultan Basin Road safety improvements project. “The City of Sultan is very grateful to Congressman Rick Larsen for his efforts securing $80,000 for the US 2 and Sultan Basin Road Realignment Project,” said Mayor Carolyn Eslick. “This is an important safety and economic development project that will benefit the Citizens of Sultan and the thousands of people who travel US 2 daily. I also want to thank Congressman Larsen for his loyal and continued support on other numerous projects for the City of Sultan throughout his term.” The City of Sultan completed another project (for 5th Street signal improvements in Sultan) ahead of schedule, and requested Larsen’s help to transfer $80,000 included for this project in SAFETEALU (the surface transportation bill passed in 2005) to be used for U.S. 2/Sultan Basin Road Improvements. According to the City of Sultan, the U.S. 2 / Sultan Basin Road improvement project will benefit pedestrians, motorists and freight by improving safety, increasing system efficiency and addressing bottlenecks and chokepoints. “I’m pleased I could help deliver this funding for the City of Sultan to improve safety on US 2,” said Larsen. “As Congress writes the next surface transportation bill, I will work to improve public safety, strengthen Snohomish County’s transportation system and keep our economy moving.” ###
05.25.2008	Washington, D.C.— As you read this, the U.S. Congress is working to strengthen care and services for veterans, including stronger GI Bill benefits. Congress recently passed landmark legislation to provide post-9/11 veterans with comprehensive education benefits championed by Senator Jim Webb (D-VA) and with broad bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. If signed into law by the President, members of the military who have served on active duty since 9/11 will have full tuition and fees at state universities fully paid for, in addition to other new benefits. For more than six decades, the GI Bill has helped generations of veterans afford college or vocational training so they can get a good job once they leave the military. But the GI Bill currently on the books is out of date for our 21st century veterans and it needs to be reformed. This Memorial Day, we must renew our commitment to veterans, and that includes helping them get the education they need in a 21st century economy. The GI Bill provides up to 36 months of benefits for college, technical or vocational courses and a host of other training and apprenticeship opportunities. But under current law, active-duty participants have only 10 years from the day they leave the military to access the education benefits they have earned. Active reserve enrollees have 14 years until benefits expire—a roadblock that comes too soon for many. According to the most recent statistics, 80 percent of eligible service members enroll and contribute part of their salary to the program, but only 59 percent use some or all of their benefits before they expire. Many veterans can’t return to school immediately or even within the first several years after leaving the service. Many must postpone school to support their families, and many face lengthy rehabilitations from service-related injuries. Others choose to gain experience in the workforce first and need further education down the road. Some veterans start using their education benefits, but are unable to complete their degree before they run out. That’s why we have introduced the Montgomery “GI Bill for Life” Act in Congress to remove the expiration date on GI Bill benefits and make sure all our veterans can use the benefits they have earned. This legislation would allow our service members and veterans to get the education and job training they need when the time is right for them. The debt we owe our nation’s veterans doesn’t come with an expiration date, and neither should their GI Bill benefits. We know that the Montgomery GI Bill opened the door to higher education for millions of service members and veterans who wouldn’t otherwise have had the chance to pay for college. Now, in the 21st Century – an environment in which enhanced skills, education, and job training are critical to employment, with 40 percent of all job growth requiring some form of postsecondary education by 2010 – we must ensure that veterans always have this door open to them. When our soldiers return home from Iraq and Afghanistan, they should have increased access to the educational and training opportunities afforded by the Montgomery GI Bill. As part of veterans legislation passed by Congress, the time period for GI Bill benefits would be extended from 10 to 15 years, giving active-duty veterans five more years to get the education they need. This is a positive first step, and we will work with our colleagues to see it signed into law. We will also continue our work to pass the Cantwell-Larsen GI Bill for Life to remove time limits on education benefits entirely. Tom Noel, a Veterans Employment Representative in Bellingham, is one of many veterans who first encouraged us to introduce the “GI Bill for Life”. Tom says that almost every day on the job, he meets an unemployed veteran who needs more education to get back into the workforce. But because too many years have passed, these servicemen and women are unable to use the benefits they earned putting their lives on the line for our country. As a nation, we have a responsibility our nation’s service members and veterans, including the more than 16,000 veterans of Whatcom County. Part of this responsibility means ensuring veterans can use the education benefits they earned and deserve.
05.24.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host transportation roundtables during the May district work period to hear from local stakeholders and transportation leaders from across the 2nd District as Congress prepares to write the next surface transportation bill in the coming year. Larsen serves on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee which will reauthorize the legislation for the next six years, providing an opportunity to reevaluate federal transportation policy and invest in local transportation needs. “Transportation investment creates jobs and economic opportunity,” said Larsen. “The next surface transportation bill could be the single greatest investment in transportation and jobs in the history of our country. I want to hear from you, the communities in my district, so that I can go back to Washington DC and advocate for our local priorities.” Larsen Hosts a Skagit, Island, San Juan County Transportation Roundtable Tuesday, May 27 at 1:00 PM Skagit Station Conference Room105 E. Kincaid Street, Mount VernonLarsen Hosts a Transportation Roundtable with Snohomish County Transportation LeadersWednesday, May 28 at 9:00 AM 8th Floor of the Wall Street Building2930 Wetmore Avenue, EverettLarsen Rides the Bus to His Whatcom County Transportation Roundtable to Emphasize the Importance of Public Transportation Thursday, May 29 at 1:00 PM Bus leaving from the Cordata Station at Eliza and Westerly on Route 232, arriving at Bellingham Station Larsen Hosts a Whatcom County Transportation Roundtable Thursday, May 29 at 2:00 PMRoom 513, Whatcom County Courthouse311 Grand Avenue, Bellingham ###
05.22.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representative today in recognition of National Drug Court Month. Larsen congratulated Washington state drug courts for their life-saving and cost-effective work, and drug court graduates for beating addiction and turning their lives around. Larsen, who co-chairs the House Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, has worked in Congress to support the work of local drug courts with a strong and consistent investment of federal dollars. For the last two fiscal years, the President has zeroed out the Drug Court program in the budget request he has sent to Congress. Last year, Larsen worked with his colleagues in the House and succeeded in restoring $40 million in drug court funding in the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) appropriations bill. Under threat of a Presidential veto, this was reduced to $15.2 million in the final funding bill which passed Congress and was signed into law.For the next fiscal year, Larsen continues to push for $40 million in funding for the Drug Court program. On March 18, Larsen sent a letter signed by over 100 of his House colleagues to the CJS Subcommittee urging them to restore $40 million of federal grant money for drug courts across the country. Congressman Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery follow: “I stand today in recognition of National Drug Court Month and the important work done by drug courts in my district and around the country. “Drug courts combine intense judicial supervision and comprehensive treatment in a community wide approach to rehabilitation. They bring together teams of judges, attorneys, treatment providers, child advocates, and law enforcement officers. Their tireless work gives non-violent offenders a second chance to get clean and take back their lives. “In my district, drug court programs have enhanced public safety, saved taxpayer dollars and, most importantly, saved lives. Since 1999, the Snohomish County Drug Court in Everett, Washington has graduated over 300 participants of whom 94% have remained clean.“Drug courts are widely recognized as the most effective solution for reducing crime and recidivism among drug-addicted offenders. They come at a fraction of the cost of standard incarceration, and they work. It is our responsibility at the federal level to provide the funds necessary to ensure that their services are available to the people that need them.“Congratulations to the dedicated drug court professionals and graduates from Washington state and around the country on a job well done, and thank you all for your hard work and dedication.” ###
05.16.2008	Washington, D.C. — On Monday May 19, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will host his first telephone town hall with constituents from across the 2nd Congressional District to update them about his work for Northwest Washington, hear their thoughts and concerns, and answer questions. Larsen will make the call from his office in Washington, D.C. to speak with constituents from Island, Snohomish, Skagit, San Juan, Whatcom and King Counties. “I’m looking forward to hosting my first telephone town hall with 2nd District Constituents,” said Larsen. “I regularly host in-person town halls across the 2nd District. Those events are well-attended, but it can be difficult for some people to find time away from their families and day-to-day responsibilities to attend an event outside the home. This telephone town hall gives constituents another opportunity to share their thoughts and ask me questions.”Call-in number for press and constituents (please feel free to publish in advance): (866) 447-5149, code 13740Reporters are welcome to listen to the call. Due to the large number of constituents expected to participate, we ask that press not ask questions on the call. If you are a reporter planning to call in, please RSVP to Amanda.mahnke@mail.house.gov. What: U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen’s first telephone town hall When: Monday, May 19 6:30 PM Pacific Time / 9:30 PM Eastern TimeCall-in: (866) 447-5149Code: 13740 ###
05.16.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and a number of his colleagues in the House sent a letter to President Bush expressing serious concerns about the Air Force’s recent selection of the Airbus/ EADS consortium to build the next generation of refueling tankers for our military, a contract worth at least $35 billion for this subsidized European company. In the letter, Larsen and his colleagues ask the President to explain how he plans to resolve the troubling rift in our nation’s trade policy exposed by the Air Force’s selection of a European company that benefitted from subsidies the U.S. government has determined are illegal and asked the World Trade Organization (WTO) to stop.“We believe the recent United States Air Force decision to procure aerial refueling tankers from the European consortium Airbus/ EADS at the same time that the United States Trade Representative is litigating a World Trade Organization (WTO) case against that same subsidized company presents a troubling conflict that will ultimately hurt American interests,” wrote Larsen in the letter.“We believe it is absolutely necessary that we have a unified and equitable trade and procurement policy that ensures the American taxpayer does not foot the bill for foreign imports that are in clear violation of WTO rules,” the letter continued. In 2004, the United States Trade Representative (USTR) filed a WTO case against the European Union to put an end to subsidies for Airbus. President Bush and his Administration have consistently supported this effort. At the time the WTO case was filed, President Bush instructed then-U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick to “pursue all options to end these subsidies.” “The fact that one arm of the U.S. government took advantage of an illegally-subsidized plane while another arm is challenging those very subsidies in the WTO raises serious concerns,” said Larsen. “The Administration is on a collision course with itself on this issue, and needs to explain to Congress how they plan to avoid a crash.”The full text of Larsen’s letter follows: Dear Mr. President: We write to raise serious concerns about the lack of coordination between our nation’s defense procurement policy and our nation’s trade policy. We believe the recent United States Air Force decision to procure aerial refueling tankers from the European consortium Airbus/ EADS at the same time that the United States Trade Representative is litigating a World Trade Organization (WTO) case against that same subsidized company presents a troubling conflict that will ultimately hurt American interests. The U.S. government has determined that subsidies to Airbus are a clear violation of World Trade Organization rules. In 2004, the USTR filed a WTO case against the European Union to put an end to these illegal subsidies. Your support for this has been instrumental, and in past statements you have clearly stated that European nations should end their subsidies to Airbus. At the time the WTO case was filed you instructed then U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick to “pursue all options to end these subsidies.” Yet while this WTO case is nearing a final decision, another branch of your Administration sends a conflicting and damaging message by deciding to reward European governments for the billions of dollars and market-distorting subsidies that they have used to create and sustain Airbus. By choosing the A330 platform, the United States Air Force is, in effect, taking advantage of $5 billion dollars in WTO-disputed launch aid for the development of the A330/A340 models. In our view, this conflicting message does not help your Administration’s efforts to win the WTO case; a case that if lost, will represent a multi-billion dollar return on investment for European taxpayers. We are at a loss as to why the United States would have a policy pitting one part of our government directly against another. We believe it is absolutely necessary that we have a unified and equitable trade and procurement policy that ensures the American taxpayer does not foot the bill for foreign imports that are in clear violation of WTO rules. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to hearing your plans to resolve this contradiction and move forward with a coherent trade policy that will protect American interests in the global marketplace. Sincerely, Rick Larsen ###
05.14.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced his support for a farm bill agreement between the House and Senate which makes historic investments in Washington state’s specialty crop producers and in initiatives to feed hungry families in Northwest Washington and across the country. The House is scheduled to vote on the bill today. Both the House and Senate must past the farm bill conference report before it can be sent to the President’s desk.“This farm bill is great news for Northwest Washington growers,” said U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, who has worked for years to strengthen federal investments in specialty crops. “This bipartisan farm bill agreement builds on the strong provisions we put in the House bill and invests $1.3 billion to help local growers compete with farms down the road and around the world. Investments in research, pest management, trade promotion and nutrition initiatives are money well spent, not only for local fruit and vegetable growers but for the families who rely on them for wholesome food. I call on my colleagues in Congress to support this important legislation.” Past farm bills have largely neglected specialty crops, which account for almost fifty percent of total agricultural cash receipts in Washington state and nationally. Washington’s specialty crops include potatoes, raspberries and nursery products, and Washington is the third-largest producer of specialty crops in the country. In April 2007, Larsen held meetings with Northwest Washington growers in three counties to hear their thoughts as Congress began writing the 2007 farm bill. Larsen brought their concerns back to Congress and -- with several of his colleagues -- introduced the “Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act” (EAT Healthy American Act), legislation to strengthen investments in specialty crops, in March 2007. Provisions from that bill were included in the House-Senate farm bill agreement being considered this week, including strong support for specialty crop block grants, trade assistance and the fruit and vegetable snack program.“This farm bill agreement is a historic step forward for Washington state growers,” said Henry Bierlink, Executive Director of the Washington State Red Raspberry Commission. “Investments in competiveness, research and trade promotion are critical to the long-term survival of our specialty crop industry. We call on Congress to pass this bill, and we urge the President to sign it into law.” Nearly three quarters of the farm bill goes to hunger and nutrition programs that help 38 million American families afford wholesome food, compared to just thirteen percent of bill which goes to commodity subsidies. The farm bill increases support for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP), which provides direct aid to food banks and soup kitchens across the country, by 78 percent next year, as well as adding $50 million to address shortages this year. The farm bill requires that future funding for TEFAP rise with inflation in the coming years, ensuring a consistent funding source for food banks. It also strengthens the federal investment in food stamps and will provide increased food stamp benefits for an estimated 239,000 individuals across Washington state, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Seventy-seven percent of food stamp benefits go to households with children.“One sign that the economic downturn is taking a toll on Northwest Washington families is how many are turning to local food banks for help,” Larsen continued. “I am pleased that the farm bill provides a 78 percent increase in funding for The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) to help food banks in Northwest Washington feed those in need, as well as strengthening support for food stamps, most of which go to families with children.” This year, American consumers could face the most dramatic increase in food prices in 17 years, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, with the price of essential items like milk and eggs going through the roof.“While the lines at our food bank have gotten longer, the purchasing power of The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP) has decreased making it more difficult for us to help Whatcom County families in need,” said Mike Cohen, Executive Director of the Bellingham Food Bank, who met with Larsen earlier this month at the new site of the Bellingham food bank, where they talked about the need for stronger federal support for hunger initiatives. “The farm bill’s 78 percent increase in TEFAP funding couldn’t come at a better time for hungry families in Northwest Washington,” Cohen continued. “We are eager for Congress to pass this important legislation that will provide direct relief to the hungry families we serve.” In Whatcom County, visits to the Bellingham food bank are up more than 25 percent to the highest levels ever, according to the Bellingham Herald. According to the Skagit Valley Herald, more local families are turning to food banks for help while a worsening economy is making in harder for local food banks to keep their shelves stocked.“Since the beginning of the Farm Bill deliberations, the cost of food and the need for hunger relief has only risen,” said Linda Nageotte, President and CEO of Food Lifeline, Washington state’s largest hunger relief agency. “Nearly 600,000 people in Washington state, many of whom are working, rely on the Food Stamp Program to feed their families. However, current benefits average just $1 per meal and that dollar is worth less and less each day. For Food Lifeline and our network of 300 food banks and meal programs across Western Washington, this means longer lines at the same time that our donation supplies are dwindling. The Nutrition Title of the Farm Bill Conference Report makes significant, critical, and timely investments to help end hunger in our state and our nation, and we strongly support its passage.” ###
05.12.2008	Washington, D.C. — VA Puget Sound has announced that on May 27, Northwest Washington’s interim veterans’ outpatient clinic will move from its current site at a mobile clinic in Mount Vernon to a new, temporary location on the campus of United General Hospital in Sedro-Woolley, enabling the VA to serve more veterans at a larger facility. U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash) and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) continue to advocate for the VA to open a permanent community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) in Northwest Washington as soon as possible.“The VA’s announcement that they are moving the interim clinic to a larger facility with expanded hours means that more veterans will get the care they need close to home,” said Larsen. “This is one more step toward a permanent community-based outpatient clinic for Northwest Washington veterans. Senator Murray and I will keep pushing until the doors of the permanent facility are open for business.” “For years, Northwest veterans have faced tremendous barriers to the care they deserve,” Murray said. “This is another step forward in getting them the care they need and deserve. Representative Larsen and I are committed to getting a permanent clinic up and running for the veterans of Northwest Washington.”For a number of years, Murray and Larsen have pressed the VA to open a permanent community-based outpatient clinic in Northwest Washington, advocating on behalf of many local veterans who spend hours in traffic to get needed medical care at the VA hospital in Seattle. In February, 2007, Murray and Larsen praised the VA's announcement of plans to open a community-based outpatient clinic in the Mount Vernon area to serve veterans in a five-county area. In February, 2008, the VA announced that it had opened a temporary facility at Skagit Valley Hospital to provide primary and mental health services to some veterans enrolled in the VA system. The VA’s announcement this week they will be moving the temporary facility to the campus of United General Hospital in Sedro-Woolley means that more local veterans will receive care at a larger facility with expanded hours while the VA plans for the permanent site to open. ###
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. — After 6 years of working Wild Sky Wilderness through the legislative process, U.S. Senator Patty Murray and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen today celebrated the final step in the process – Presidential signing. President Bush signed Wild Sky Wilderness into law this morning, creating the first new wilderness area in the state of Washington in over twenty years."I could not be more proud of the spirit of togetherness and dedication that has surrounded Wild Sky from the very beginning. Today is a tribute to so many people who never gave up and never lost sight of the goal – preserving the heart and soul of this beautiful land," Senator Murray said. "This new wilderness is a gift to young families, lifelong outdoor enthusiasts and everyone in between. We are blessed to live so close to such majestic beauty and thanks to this new designation it will be protected for generations to come. Wild Sky could not have made it to the finish line without the steadfast support of Rick Larsen who has been my partner in this journey. It's been a long hard climb, but crossing the finish line truly is sweet." “Reaching the end of the trail never felt so good,” said Larsen. “Today marks the summit of a long journey made possible by many committed people and years of community input. Together, we not only created a new wilderness bill, but a new model for creating wilderness in the future. I couldn’t have asked for a better partner on this long hike than Senator Patty Murray, and I look forward to celebrating together in the new Wild Sky Wilderness this spring.”Wild Sky is the result of nearly nine years of work by Senator Murray, Representative Larsen and advocates across Washington state. Murray and Larsen first introduced the bill in 2002, and it passed the Senate four times and the House twice before finally making it to the President's desk. The Wild Sky Wilderness law designates 106,577 acres of national forest in east Snohomish County as wilderness. In the past, wilderness has consisted solely of old growth forest at higher elevations. Wild Sky protects thousands of acres of low-elevation old growth and 25 miles of salmon streams to make the land accessible for recreational use. Wild Sky will preserve the pristine nature of the land, protect wildlife, promote clean water, enhance and protect recreational opportunities for the region, and contribute to the local economy. ###
05.07.2008	Washington, D.C. — As Congress prepares to consider legislation to improve education benefits for veterans, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on his colleagues to strengthen the GI Bill and give veterans more time to use their earned education benefits before they expire. Today Larsen expressed his support for a proposal to extend the time limit for veterans who served in active duty from 10 to 15 years, giving them more time to use education benefits earned under the GI Bill. Legislation including this provision could by considered by the House as early as Thursday. “Helping more veterans go to college and vocational school makes sense for veterans, military families and our 21st century economy,” said Larsen. “I am pleased that the House could consider legislation this week to give active-duty veterans five more years to get the education and training they need when they need it. This would be a great step forward, and I will keep working to remove the arbitrary time limit entirely so veterans can access their GI Bill benefits for life.” Under current law, veterans who served in active duty must use all of their GI Bill education benefits within 10 years of being discharged. Those serving in the Selected Reserve have 14 years of eligibility to use their GI Bill benefits. While approximately 80% of service members contribute to the GI Bill program, only 59% take advantage of their education benefits before they expire, according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.Larsen has introduced legislation to remove the arbitrary ten-and-fourteen-year time limits entirely so veterans can access educational and vocational training when the time is right for them. Larsen’s GI Bill for Life Act (H.R. 2247), which has been introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), got a hearing for the first time in the U.S. House of Representatives in January.“The debt we owe our nation’s veterans doesn’t come with an expiration date, and neither should their GI Bill benefits,” Larsen concluded. ###
05.05.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today congratulated Anacortes and Arlington airports for receiving grants from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). According the FAA, the Port of Anacortes will receive $1 million to increase safety and improve operations at the Anacortes Airport by acquiring an emergency generator, constructing an access road and an apron, installing gate locking controls on the fence, and rehabilitating the taxiway. The City of Arlington will receive $ 150,000 for a study to update the master plan for current and future management of Arlington Municipal Airport.“These airports are economic engines for our local economy, and it’s a smart federal investment to keep them running strong,” said Larsen, a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “According to the Washington State Department of Transportation, Arlington Airport supports over 300 local jobs and Anacortes Airport supports over 100 local jobs. I will keep working in Congress to invest in local communities and help create jobs in Northwest Washington.” In April, Larsen toured the Arlington Airport and congratulated them on another federal grant announced last month which will provide $1.05 million to help strengthen the taxiway and improve airplane traffic circulation. ###
05.05.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-2) applauded today’s announcement that the federal government has approved a rule change he requested to increase TRICARE payments for Whidbey General Hospital and other critical access hospitals across the country and help ensure that local service members, military families and veterans continue to have access to the care they need.“Today’s announcement means that we have cleared all the major hurdles and are well on our way to increased TRICARE payments for Whidbey General Hospital,” said Larsen. Whidbey General serves a large portion of military service members, veterans, and their families on Whidbey Island. With the October 2007 reduction of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island’s emergency care services, the military community has increasingly relied on Whidbey General for needed care. TRICARE – the military's medical benefits program - has been reimbursing Whidbey General and other critical access hospitals across the country at a low rate, raising the possibility that Whidbey may be forced to stop serving TRICARE beneficiaries. Larsen has requested a rule change that would raise TRICARE payments to the same level as Medicare rates so Whidbey General can continue to provide health care to the military population. Approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Department of Defense (DOD) is needed for the proposed rule change to become final, and Larsen has worked to secure approval from both agencies. On March 21, Larsen wrote a letter to OMB, the final federal agency whose approval is needed, asking them to approve the rule change for Whidbey General.“We strongly believe that this change in TRICARE reimbursement policy is needed to help ensure that critical access hospitals in rural communities continue to provide TRICARE services to the military community, and we support the efforts of the Department of Defense to update this policy,” wrote Larsen and several of his colleagues in the House. “This change will bring substantial relief to the many critical access hospitals that provide medical care to the military population.” At the urging of Larsen and U.S. Senator Patty Murray, DOD signed off on the proposed rule change at the beginning of March, clearing an important hurdle and sending the proposed rule change to OMB for review. Starting today, the rule change is subject to a 30-day public comment period after which OMB and DOD will determine if any changes need to be made before the final rule can be published as a formal regulation.“The community has waited a long time for increased TRICARE payments, and the wait is almost over,” Larsen concluded. ###
04.29.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) led the Wild Sky Wilderness bill to passage in the U.S. House of Representatives, the final stop before the bill can be sent to the President who is expected to sign it into law. The Wild Sky bill, legislation to preserve more than 106,000 acres of wild land in Snohomish County, passed the House today by a vote of 291 to 117 as part of the bipartisan Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008. On April 10, Wild Sky passed the Senate under the leadership of U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA).“We’ve reached the end of a long hike. There have been many twists and turns along the way, and let me tell you – it’s a beautiful view from here,” said Larsen. “I’ve had great company with me on this journey, from Sen. Patty Murray to Chairman Rahall and all the local advocates for Wild Sky who have led the way with their passion and commitment to protecting this pristine wilderness.” “We all felt the spirit of Wild Sky today as an overwhelming majority in the House supported its passage. This is a bill that has always brought diverse people together to do what's right for our environment and our future,” Senator Murray said. “I could not have asked for a better partner in this effort than Rick Larsen who has walked side by side with me throughout this journey and never given up. I can't wait to lace up my tennis shoes and take those first steps into Washington's first new wilderness area in twenty years.”“I applaud my friend and colleague, Rick Larsen, who has long championed the designation of ‘Wild Sky’ wilderness in his state,” said House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick J. Rahall (D-WV). “In my view, to be in a wilderness area is a humbling experience. To be a part of designating wilderness is even more humbling, because wilderness is an effort to retain the landscape as God created it. Today, let this be the next to last action – other than the President’s signature – on establishing the Wild Sky Wilderness in the State of Washington.” Wild Sky is the result of more than seven years of work by Larsen, Murray, their colleagues in Congress and advocates from Northwest Washington and across Washington state. Murray and Larsen first introduced the bill in 2002. After several years of passing the Senate but getting stuck in the House Resources Committee, Wild Sky passed the House for the first time in 2007. The Wild Sky Wilderness Act will designate 106,577 acres of national forest in east Snohomish County as wilderness. In the past, Washington wilderness has primarily consisted of old growth forest at higher elevations. Wild Sky protects thousands of acres of low-elevation old growth and 25 miles of salmon streams to make the land accessible for recreational use. Wild Sky will provide more than 2.4 million people from Snohomish, Skagit and King counties with convenient access to hiking and camping in pristine wilderness, protect wildlife, promote clean water and contribute to the local economy. Today, Larsen spoke on the House floor in support of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, which includes the Wild Sky Wilderness Act. ###
04.25.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen today congratulated two Northwest Washington small businesses for winning federal grants under the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration (MARAD) Assistance to Small Shipyards program. All American Marine, Inc. in Bellingham was awarded $285,000 this week to acquire metal cutting machinery and boat transfer equipment. Everett Shipyard, Inc. was awarded $297,036 for work stations and an overhead crane.“Small shipyards play a vital role in Northwest Washington’s marine industry as well as serving three major U.S. Navy bases, the nation’s largest ferry system, and a major U.S. Coast Guard facility,” said Larsen. “These grants are a smart federal investment that will help these shipbuilders increase their productivity and continue to create and support local jobs.” In March, Larsen sent a letter to the Maritime Administration in support of Everett Shipyard’s application for federal funding. Receiving this grant, Larsen wrote, would allow Everett Shipyard to reorganize its existing steel fabrication workforce to enhance worker efficiency and productivity. With the funding, Everett Shipyard will create four enhanced steel construction work states, run underground utilities to those workstations and install an overhead crane system to support them.According to MARAD, Assistance to Small Shipyards grants are awarded “to help make capital and infrastructure improvements that facilitate the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and quality of domestic ship construction, conversion or repair for commercial and federal government use.” The grants cover a maximum of 75 percent of the estimated cost of improvements, while the companies receiving the grants are responsible for the remainder. ###
04.24.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, released the following statement in support of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2008: “The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2008 strengthens maritime security, improves marine safety and protects our environment. It does so by giving the Coast Guard new authority, resources and capacity to meet their multi-mission responsibilities. “This bill ensures that the Coast Guard has the resources it needs to keep maritime transportation in the Pacific Northwest efficient and reliable. The maritime transportation system helps power our economy, and its success hinges on a strong and robust Coast Guard. From securing our ports and waterways to safeguarding our recreational boaters, commercial fishermen and ferry passengers, we rely on the Coast Guard to protect the flow of commerce and ensure our safety. “This bill helps to safeguard maritime transportation in the Pacific Northwest by significantly improving the Coast Guard’s marine safety programs. I also commend the Committee for including strong fishing vessel safety standards. Many of the commercial fishing vessels that operate in the Gulf of Alaska are homeported in Seattle, and the safety of these vessels is important to me and to my constituents. “Finally, I’d like to thank Chairman Oberstar for including a study that I requested to examine Coast Guard operating capabilities in the Arctic region. I am concerned that the Coast Guard does not currently have the assets and capabilities it needs to execute its missions in the warming Arctic environment. It is my hope that this provision will help the Coast Guard study and address these new challenges.” ###
04.18.2008	Washington, D.C. — United States Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab announced today that South Korea has agreed to reopen their market to U.S. beef and beef products. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement: “I applaud Ambassador Schwab and the South Korean government for reaching an agreement to bring U.S. beef from cattle of all ages back to the South Korean market. Washington state cattle producers, like those across the United States, are proud of the safe, high-quality beef products they produce and it is due time for this market to be open. “This decision represents an important step forward in the U.S.-Korea Free Trade Agreement. South Korea is currently the fifth largest market for Washington state goods and services and the seventh largest market for all U.S. goods and services. A free trade agreement with Korea will open up even more opportunities for Washington state farmers, ranchers and businesses.”South Korea closed its market to U.S. beef and beef products in December 2003 and briefly re-opened it in January 2006. In 2003, South Korea was the second largest beef export market for U.S. cattle, totaling $754 million in exports. ###
04.16.2008	Washington, D.C.— In a Transportation and Infrastructure Committee hearing today, Committee Members including U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) heard from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Environmental Protection Agency, legal scholars, county commissioners, water quality experts, and farmers about H.R. 2421, the Clean Water Restoration Act, which has been introduced by Chairman Jim Oberstar (D-MN). Larsen released the following statement: “I appreciate Chairman Oberstar holding today’s hearing, and I am pleased that my constituent Skagit County Commissioner Don Munks was able to testify and share his concerns with the Committee. “From what I have heard from my constituents in Northwest Washington and the witnesses who testified today, I’m concerned that the Clean Water Restoration Act, as currently written, could hinder – not help -- local efforts to protect water quality and salmon habitat while preserving our farming legacy. “The consensus that emerged from today’s hearing is that the words "navigable waters" should not be removed from the Clean Water Act. Doing so would upset the delicate balance between state and federal jurisdiction over water and could set off a chain of lawsuits.“It is critical that any bill must affirm the constitutionality of Clean Water Act, remove the uncertainty that came with the Supreme Court decisions (Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County v. Corps of Engineers and Rapanos et ux., et al. v. United States), and ensure a baseline, consistent federal standard for the nation’s waters. “The current definition of "waters of the United States" in H.R. 2421 muddies the waters rather than making them clear. I believe that any bill must provide crystal clear guidance as to what waters are covered by the federal Clean Water Act in order to give clarity to counties, farmers and builders. Legislation should also incorporate the "significant nexus" test.“I will continue to work with Chairman Oberstar to make sure these concerns are addressed.” ###
04.16.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today, Skagit County Commissioner Don Munks testified to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in a hearing on the Clean Water Restoration Act, legislation proposed by Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar (D-MN) which would amend the Clean Water Act. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) worked with the Committee to get Skagit concerns a hearing in Congress. “I’m pleased that Commissioner Munks will have the opportunity to testify and make sure that Skagit County’s concerns are heard in Congress,” said Larsen, who worked with Oberstar to have Munks included on the witness list. In November, Larsen hosted a roundtable discussion in Mount Vernon with representatives from the counties, agricultural community, home builders, and Realtors to hear from local stakeholders about the legislation and bring their concerns back to his colleagues on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “I would like to thank Congressman Rick Larsen for graciously working with the people of Skagit County to provide us with this opportunity,” Munks told the Committee today. “We ask you for the opportunity to continue to be the “first responders” for clean water by not saddling us with additional bureaucracy,” Munks continued. “We’ve worked hard for decades to protect our natural resources and keep our water clean. Without our recommended change [to the bill] these proactive efforts could be lost forever in the morass of federal regulation and bureaucracy.” As written, the Clean Water Restoration Act removes the word “navigable” (pertaining to “navigable waters”) from the Clean Water Act and makes several definitional changes to the Act, changes that many in Skagit County fear would expand the jurisdiction of the legislation to include gutters, driveway culverts, agricultural ditches, farm ponds and roadside ditches and require a Clean Water Act Permit for routine tasks. This change could dramatically increase the time needed to process permits and add to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ already-substantial backlog. “I’m concerned that the Clean Water Restoration Act, as written, could hinder local efforts to protect water quality and salmon habitat while preserving our farming legacy. I will continue to work with Chairman Oberstar to make sure these concerns are addressed,” Larsen concluded. ###
04.10.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) led the Wild Sky Wilderness bill to its fourth victory in the Senate, clearing an important hurdle for the legislation to become law. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) must now lead the legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives one final time before it can be sent to the President, who is expected to sign it into law.“Turning the dream of Wild Sky into reality has been a long, hard climb, but with Senate approval today, we are just steps away from our goal,” Senator Murray said. “Wild Sky will give more than 2.4 million people from Snohomish, King, and Skagit counties easy access to hiking and camping in pristine wilderness for generations to come. It will preserve a unique environment, and it will give nearby towns an economic boost. So many people in Washington state are excited about Wild Sky – I’m thrilled we’re so close to victory.” Wild Sky is the result of almost nine years of work by Larsen, Murray, and advocates across Washington state. Murray and Larsen first introduced the bill in 2002. Last year, it finally made it through the House for the first time. To become law, the bill must clear the House once more and receive the President’s signature.“I couldn’t have asked for a better partner on this long hike than Senator Patty Murray,” said Larsen, who will work with House leadership to schedule a final vote in the U.S. House of Representatives as soon as possible. “Chairman Rahall of the House Natural Resources Committee has made passing Wild Sky a priority, and I look forward to working with him to get this bill through the U.S. House of Representatives one final time.” ###
04.08.2008	“When I hear testimony from Ambassador Ryan Crocker and Gen. David Petraeus in the House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday, I expect to hear one of three things: "Security has improved; we can't leave Iraq," "Security has worsened; we can't leave Iraq," or "Security has stayed the same; we can't leave Iraq." I can only hope that into our sixth year of fighting, Ambassador Crocker and Gen. Petraeus will be able to define under what conditions we can redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq. “Despite modest gains in security in Iraq -- not withstanding the troubling recent increase in violence -- our military leadership seems no closer to redeploying any number of U.S. troops from Iraq than we were a year ago, according to a recent U.S. Institute of Peace (USIP) report. “This is especially troubling given that key intelligence and military leaders have publicly stated that the next terrorist attack, should it occur, will likely originate from the Osama bin Laden safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border -- and not from Iraq. “I reiterate what I said at the first Crocker/Petreaus hearings in September 2007: Without true political reconciliation, sectarian violence in Iraq will continue. The continued lack of political progress in Iraq is troubling and puts a heavy burden on our troops. “Congress must insist on achievement when it comes to political progress, not just effort. That does not seem too steep an ask for nearly 10 billion U.S. taxpayer dollars a month. “As the USIP report suggests, security gains in Iraq are largely out of our control. The president's contention that the Iraqi government's military efforts in Basra a few short weeks ago was a "defining moment in the history of a free Iraq" only underscored what we know: The Iraqi military is a still a phantom force on its own and requires full combat support from the United States military. All this after over five years of fighting. “Our national interests in this region are too great for the United States to retrench from the area. However, I reiterate my call for a change of mission in Iraq, and I continue to call for the following: -- The United States should complete training and equipping Iraqi military forces to fight a counterinsurgency campaign against the Iraqi-based insurgency. -- The United States should embed available trainers and special operations personnel with Iraqi military forces to fight al-Qaida in Iraq. -- The United States should provide personnel to secure Iraq's borders to cut the flow of foreign fighters and weapons into Iraq. -- The United States should immediately withdraw troops from Iraq not necessary for these missions for redeployment to other areas of need or send them home. -- The Unites States should invest in a diplomatic surge in the Middle East engaging all countries, including Syria and Iran, and convene an international peace conference to end the civil war in Iraq. -- The United States should loosen its visa policies for Iraqis seeking to come to the United States. “We must take these critical steps to sustain our armed services, begin to restore our military readiness, and refocus our efforts on defending our nation from those who would do us harm.”U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen, a Democrat, represents Washington's 2nd Congressional District. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and voted against the Iraq war resolution in October 2002.
04.04.2008	Washington, D.C. — To provide constituents with more information about his efforts to secure federal funding for 2nd District priorities, Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) has made public the list of earmarks he has requested for Fiscal Year 2009. The earmarks Larsen has asked the Appropriations Committee to fund reflect a range of local needs in all of the six counties he represents, including funding for transportation, law enforcement and national security. “In the past several months, I have received an overwhelming number of requests for earmarks from local communities, constituents and organizations,” said Larsen. “After careful consideration, the earmarks I am requesting this year reflect a range of local needs and would make a real difference for Northwest Washington families and communities.” Larsen has received over 140 requests from constituents and organizations asking him to request earmarks for the next fiscal year. In reviewing these requests, Larsen considered whether the project is located in the 2nd Congressional District and reflects 2nd District needs and priorities, whether the project is prepared to use federal funding effectively, and whether the project can be funded in an earmarked account. Of the over 140 requests he received this year, Larsen chose 59 to pass on to the Appropriations Committee. The Committee will evaluate all the requests they receive to determine which merit funding. By releasing the earmarks he has requested for Fiscal Year 2009, Larsen is going beyond House disclosure rules in a personal effort toward greater transparency for his constituents. Rules put in place by the Democratic Majority last year require that any earmark included in an appropriations bill will be made public and attributed to the member who requested it. “I have decided to share my earmark requests with the public to provide constituents with more information about my work to secure federal funding for local priorities,” said Larsen. Following are the earmarks Larsen has requested for Fiscal Year 2009: $2,000,000 to help Bellingham Technical College construct a new facility for their Fisheries Technology Program which trains technicians to restore, expand and sustain habitat and wild salmon runs and aquaculture in Puget Sound $300,000 for the Benaroya Research Institute to help convene an Autoimmune Disease Research Intervention Conference $2,000,000 for the City of Blaine to construct a new wastewater treatment plant to improve water quality and reduce environmental impacts to fish and shellfish $350,000 for the Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center to purchase and outfit a mobile laboratory bus to improve science and health education for more than 9,000 K-12 students in Washington state $1,500,000 for Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle to help expand a cystic fibrosis national clinical research program $36,000,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to deepen the federal navigation channel from the Mouth of the Columbia River to the Portland/Vancouver area $1,025,000 for a feasibility study of the Elliott Bay Seawall to be conducted by the City of Seattle in cooperation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers $392,000 for Everett Community College to fund the Early College High Schools Program, which provides students with the opportunity to graduate from high school with both a high school diploma and an associate’s degree or two years of transferable college credit $8,500,000 for the Floriculture and Nursery Research Initiative conducted by the U.S.D.A. Agriculture Research Service $300,000 for Washington State University to conduct research to improve grape plant stock to achieve virus-free vineyards $50,000,000 for Impact Aid Alliance to support school districts which serve military families including those in the 2nd Congressional district $6,000,000 for Intermec Technologies to modernize supply chain management on Navy hospital ships $80,000 to purchase and install additional laptops and software for the Island County Sheriff’s Office to use in their patrol cars $1,000,000 for the National Clean Plant Network for Fruit Trees, Nut Trees and Grapes Vines, a program to eliminate viruses and improve plant stock conducted jointly by Washington State University and the University of California $1,800,000 for the National Potato Variety Development Program at Washington State University $250,000 for three pilot projects in Washington state to use bamboo to offset carbon dioxide emissions, provide erosion control and develop a sustainable agricultural commodity $3,300,000 for an Academic Fire Instructional Facility at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island $3,000,000 for Diamond Nets, Inc. to develop high-strength deck-edge netting to protect sailors on Navy ships $2,000,000 for the Naval Sea Cadet Corps to conduct summer training programs for youth interested in maritime activities $4,500,000 for Electronic Warfare Associates to supplement joint electronic warfare training efforts at NAS Whidbey for service members across all the Armed Services $7,374,000 for Agilent Technologies to develop technology to help protect our troops in the field in Iraq and Afghanistan $6,200,000 for Alliant Techsystems, Inc. to upgrade the Navy’s electronic warfare capabilities which will help the Prowler and future Growler communities at NAS Whidbey $200,000 to conduct a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Federal Environmental Impact Statement on North Cascades grizzly bear recovery $500,000 for the Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research (The 2nd District is home to 60% of U.S. raspberry production) $750,000 for the Northwest Discovery Project to support architectural and exhibit design and engineering for the Terraquarium, an education, research and entertainment center located on Bellingham’s waterfront $1,800,000 for the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative to protect and restore the marine waters, habitats and species of the Northwest Straits region $500,000 for Washington State University to help develop a comprehensive organic farming research and education program $548,300,000 to repair P-3 Orion Patrol Planes, some of which are based at NAS Whidbey, and accelerate development of P-8A multi-mission aircraft; this is the U.S. Navy’s top unfunded priority not included in the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2009 $3,500,000 for the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission to support port sampling on behalf of the National Marine Fisheries Service in all major West Coast ports $3,000,000 for the Partnership for a Drug Free America to fund “Police and Communities Together”, a community education program which coordinates with local law enforcement to prevent the abuse of methamphetamine and emerging drugs $136,000 for the Agricultural Research Service to conduct research at Washington State University and other institutions to develop specialized breeding lines and improve potato yields $5,000,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to fund projects identified by the Puget Sound and Adjacent Waters Initiative $1,900,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to study habitat decline and pollution in the Puget Sound Basin and develop solutions to these problems $10,000,000 to build a U.S.D.A. Agricultural Research Service facility to be located at Washington State University’s Pullman campus $2,500,000 to begin San Juan Island National Park’s acquisition of Mitchell Hill from the Washington State Department of Natural Resources $1,000,000 to help the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance build a cutting-edge cancer treatment center utilizing proton beam therapy $25,000 to help the Skagit County Drug Enforcement Unit purchase surveillance equipment for their counter-narcotics operations $1,300,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit Flood Control General Investigation Study $2,000,000 for Skagit County to construct a new arterial roadway connecting South Laventure Road, an existing north-south arterial in eastern Mount Vernon, to the Anderson Road freeway interchange $1,700,000 for Skagit Transit to complete the Chuckanut Park and Ride, Skagit County's first major park and ride $50,000 to purchase new equipment for the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force $1,500,000 for the Washington State Department of Transportation to construct safety improvement projects on the U.S. Highway 2 corridor between Snohomish and Skykomish $3,000,000 to help the City of Snohomish upgrade their wastewater treatment plant to improve Snohomish River water quality $3,000,000 for Snohomish County to help complete an alternate route for truck traffic to bypass downtown Granite Falls, improving safety for drivers and pedestrians $3,300,000 for Snohomish County to complete design and site work for an Emergency Operations Center $1,355,000 for St. Joseph's Hospital to enhance emergency power, water and air supplies and increase hospital security capabilities $400,000 for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to dredge the Swinomish Channel in Skagit County to keep the channel navigable for local commerce $2,000,000 for the Tulalip Tribes to make major improvements to the Interstate 5/ 116th Street NE interchange in Marysville to improve traffic flow and enhance driver safety $2,000,000 for Washington State Department of Transportation to manufacture propulsion systems for four new passenger-auto ferries $2,000,000 for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative $700,000 for a University of Washington / Washington State University partnership to increase export opportunities for Washington state agriculture products in the global market $3,000,000 for Western Washington University to establish the Northern Border University Research Consortium to study the impact of U.S. and Canadian border policy on U.S. economic prosperity and security $500,000 for the Whatcom Council of Governments to continue the International Mobility and Trade Corridor Project, a bi-national, public-private planning coalition focused on cross-border transportation and trade between the United States and Canada $350,000 to expand and improve information sharing between Whatcom County law enforcement agencies through the Whatcom Exchange Network (WENET) $400,000 to initiate a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers General Investigation study to develop management and storage strategies for the naturally-occurring asbestos in Whatcom County’s Swift Creek $2,150,000 to improve the water quality of Lake Whatcom, Whatcom County’s largest source of drinking water $3,000,000 for the long-term cleanup of the Foothills Recycling Facility in Whatcom County which threatens to contaminate the Nooksack River and endanger public health and safety $16,000,000 for the Department of Homeland Security to fund a temporary emergency operations center in Whatcom County, conduct training exercises and ensure interoperable communication among law enforcement for the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, B.C. $1,000,000 to help the Whatcom Transportation Authority replace their 33 aging buses with bio-diesel compatible buses ###
04.01.2008	Washington, D.C. — With gas prices in Washington state the second highest in the nation, home foreclosures continuing to rise, and increasing pessimism about the U.S. economy, U. S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called on Congress to pass a second economic stimulus package and key housing legislation as soon as possible.“Although Washington state, by the numbers, is not hurting as badly as some other states, the reality on the ground is that consumers need help and they need to know their government is doing more than bailing out Wall Street. It is clear to me that Main Street needs help, too.” Larsen said.Larsen called for Congress to pass a second economic stimulus package which includes two main elements: a package of infrastructure investments and an extension of federal unemployment benefits. “While the rebate checks from our first economic stimulus package have yet to arrive, to many it seems that a recession already has. Congress must take further action to get the economy back on track and put dollars into key infrastructure investment projects that are ready to go.”“We know that every $1 billion in transportation investment creates 47,000 jobs. Moreover, investing in infrastructure provides lasting returns for the community,” Larsen said. “Additionally, Congress must extend federal unemployment benefits to those workers who are suffering most in this slow-to-no-growth economy. Economists indicate that every dollar of benefit creates $1.73 of spending.”Larsen also urged Congress to pass legislation that will modernize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and permanently increase the dollar amount of home loans it can insure. “This legislation will allow middle-income people in tough housing markets to own a piece of the American dream instead of living through a foreclosure nightmare,” Larsen concluded. ###
03.31.2008	Washington, D.C. — Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) today congratulated Skagit County Community Action Agency for receiving $894,100 in Washington State Community Development Block Grant funding to expand their Distribution Center which supplies food banks in Skagit County. Larsen has supported federal funding for Community Development Block Grants, which provide local communities with resources to fight poverty and hunger and promote economic development. On November 13, Larsen wrote to Peter McMillan, Managing Director of Community Development Programs for Washington state, in support of Skagit County Community Action Agency’s application for a Community Development Block Grant. “In Skagit County, where 20 percent of the citizens rely on local area food banks, a distribution center that increases the quality and quantity of available food is vital to the health and wellbeing of our communities,” wrote Larsen. “We are proud of Skagit County’s agriculture and diversity of produce, and we applaud any effort that seeks to support local agriculture while ending local hunger.” “The Skagit County Food Bank Distribution Center is a sound investment that will increase the quantity of food and the quality of life for many in Skagit County,” Larsen continued. In January, Larsen toured Skagit County Community Action Agency’s existing facility and discussed the planned expansion. Larsen also met with volunteers and staff at the Helping Hands Food Bank, which is run out of the same building as the food distribution center and relies on the distribution center to help feed hungry families. According to Food Lifeline, Washington state’s largest hunger relief agency, around 95,000 families in Washington state suffer from hunger. Every day, approximately three hundred thousand Washington state families are forced to choose between putting food on the table and paying their bills. Thirty-nine percent of those served by Food Lifeline are children. ###
03.17.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) is hosting U.S. Representative Gene Taylor (D-MS) in the 2nd District this week. Taylor is Chairman of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee, which has oversight of the U.S. Navy. Monday and Tuesday, Larsen and Taylor will tour Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and Naval Station Everett, and meet with local shipbuilders and leaders from Northwest Washington’s maritime industry. “Congressman Taylor is the Congressional leader on Navy issues, and I’m thrilled that he is joining me this week to learn about Northwest Washington’s maritime industry, tour one of the Navy’s premier Air Stations, and learn why Naval Station Everett is the sailor’s choice,” said Larsen. Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a member of Taylor’s subcommittee, which has oversight of Navy issues. Also this week, Larsen will address the Everett Rotary on Tuesday, and join U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and other leaders for a rally with Boeing workers at the Machinists Hall in Everett on Wednesday. For more information or to schedule an interview, please call Amanda Mahnke at (202) 226-9716. ###
03.14.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today after voting for the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (H.R. 3773) which passed the House by a vote of 213 to 197: “This legislation gives the intelligence community the tools it needs to effectively track down terrorists around the world, and ensures that an independent judicial authority approves surveillance that targets American citizens. “Our bill rejects the President’s demands to provide blanket immunity for telecommunications companies who may have illegally shared information about their customers at the Bush administration’s request. Instead, it provides a legal avenue for their cases to be heard in a federal court, which will in turn help uncover the facts about the Administration’s warrantless wiretapping program.”###
03.13.2008	Washington, D.C. — The State Department announced the approval of eight new U.S. direct-hire full-time permanent positions for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in China – four in Beijing, two in Shanghai and two in Guangzhou. U.S. Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL) and U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chairs of the U.S.-China Working Group, led a product safety mission to China last August to press the Chinese government to allow FDA personnel greater access for inspections. During the mission, Kirk and Larsen secured the support of the U.S. Ambassador to China to accommodate additional FDA personnel.“Additional FDA personnel in China will strengthen the effectiveness of U.S. inspections and help stop unsafe food, drugs and medical devices from entering the United States,” Larsen said. “Adding on-the-ground Consumer Product Safety Commission staff should be the next step. We must continue to strengthen our safety infrastructure so unsafe toys and products are stopped in foreign ports, not found in American living rooms.” “This is a major victory for American families and a positive development in U.S.-China relations,” Kirk said. “Additional FDA personnel in China will boost the safety and quality of imported food, drugs and medical devices. We must now continue this upgrade to our product safety infrastructure by sending full-time Consumer Product Safety Commission personnel to China.”###
03.11.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen congratulated Bellingham Technical College on today’s announcement of a $1.85 million federal grant to fund an initiative to expand training opportunities for workers in the advanced manufacturing industry.“This was a highly competitive grant process, and I congratulate Bellingham Technical College on their success,” said Larsen. “This federal funding will help Bellingham Technical College expand their programs to train workers for family-wage jobs in our region.”The Department of Labor announced the grant today, which will provide funds to train workers in design, production, process development, operations, quality assurance, maintenance, installation and repair of mechanical equipment. The project will enhance math and science learning, expand distance learning, upgrade equipment, hire new college faculty, and connect high school, adult and English as a Second Language (ESL) students with the program. Recruitment efforts will reach out to rural and low-income populations.The Bellingham Technical College program will also help train workers in the marine trades industry across the 2nd Congressional District, which faces an aging workforce and employers in need of highly-skilled workers.Larsen supported passage of the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008 which included funding for this grant program. Also included in that bill was $215,000 Larsen helped secure to help Bellingham Technical College’s Alternative Energy and Process Technology Workforce Development Project educate more students, acquire hands-on teaching tools and modernize its curriculum. ###
03.11.2008	Washington, D.C.— In a House Armed Services Committee hearing today, Committee member U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) pushed the Pentagon for answers on the Air Force’s decision announced last week to award a $35 billion tanker contract to the subsidized European company Airbus. In the hearing, Larsen raised questions about the repercussions of this decision for U.S. trade policy. In response to questions from Larsen and others, John Young, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, stated that the Air Force did not take the illegal government subsidies provided to Airbus by European governments – the same subsidies that the U.S. government has filed a WTO case to halt – into account in making their decision.“One estimate…puts the European subsidy for the A330 and the A340 programs at $5 billion,” said Larsen in the hearing. “While this WTO case is pending now, another branch of the same Administration would send a conflicting message by offering the European Union a $35 billion reward for the same planes that we say they have illegally subsidized, a 700% return on investment for European taxpayers.”“So I’m wondering…if the U.S. wins this case pending before the WTO, would our government seek retaliatory action if doing so increases the cost of the tanker that our Air Force needs…this puts this Administration in a potential bind, live with the tanker decision or exercise its rights and obligations to enforce trade rules,” Larsen continued, “Do you know if the United States Air Force agrees with the President’s view that these subsidies are illegal?” “I think I’d ask the Air Force, again, that’s a different forum and a different set of issues,” responded Young. When Rep. Abercrombie (D-HI), who chaired the hearing, asked a question to clarify Young’s response, Young elaborated, “I do not believe it was evaluated in the proposal process that there might be tariffs and penalties.” Larsen also raised questions about the cost of retrofitting infrastructure to accommodate the larger Airbus tanker, concerns raised by the Air Force itself in a 2002 statement that “the EADS aircraft would demand a greater infrastructure investment and dramatically limit the aircraft’s ability to operate effectively in a worldwide deployment.” “In the six years since that statement, the KC-30 hasn’t gotten any smaller, and the availability of longer strengthened runways around the world certainly hasn’t grown, so at what point in that process did the KC-30’s significant liabilities as a tanker become assets?” asked Larsen. On Wednesday, March 12, Larsen will ask more questions of the Air Force in a Members-only briefing on the selection process for the refueling tanker. ###
03.10.2008	Washington, D.C.— U .S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the Boeing Company’s announcement that they will file a formal protest on Tuesday asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review the U.S. Air Force’s decision to award the aerial refueling tanker contract to the European company Airbus. Also on Tuesday, Larsen will question top Pentagon officials about the Air Force decision at a House Armed Services subcommittee hearing.“The decision by the U.S. Air Force to award the subsidized European company Airbus with a $35 billion contract to build the next generation of refueling tankers is not only the wrong choice for our U.S. military, but for our nation’s trade policy and our American economy. “From what I have learned to date, it looks like the Air Force is trying to buy a different tanker than the one they asked for.“As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will take full advantage of the opportunity to question the Defense Department about their decision to choose the subsidized European firm Airbus over Boeing, an American company with over 70 years of experience building planes for our military.“I have serious concerns about the implications of this decision for U.S. trade policy. The U.S. government has determined that European Union subsidies to Airbus are a clear violation of World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. While this case is still pending, another branch of the Bush administration is sending a conflicting message by giving European governments a $35 billion reward for their unfair trade practices.“The Bush administration is on a collision course with itself on this issue, and needs to explain to Congress how they plan to avoid a crash.“I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress – both Democrats and Republicans -- to shed light on this process and hold the decision makers accountable. This will be a long fight, but we have strong support and the best tanker on our side.” ###
03.07.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that he will question top Pentagon officials about the Air Force tanker decision at a House Armed Services subcommittee hearing next week. On Tuesday, March 11, a joint hearing of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee and Air and Land Forces Subcommittee will hear testimony from top Pentagon officials including John J. Young, Jr., Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. This will be the first time House Armed Services Committee members -- including Larsen -- will have the opportunity to question Pentagon officials directly since the Air Force announced their decision to award the $35 billion tanker deal to the European company Airbus. On Wednesday, March 12, Larsen and Members of the House Armed Services Committee will participate in a Members-only briefing with the U.S. Air Force on their selection process for the tanker. Larsen released the following statement today: “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I look forward to raising concerns with the Defense Department about their decision to choose the subsidized European firm Airbus over Boeing, an American company with over 70 years of experience building planes for our United States military.“The Air Force and Defense Department need to respond to concerns that the selection process was unfairly weighted in favor of the subsidized company Airbus. Based on what I have learned to date, it looks like the Air Force is trying to buy a different tanker than the one they asked for.“Furthermore, I have serious concerns about the implications of this decision for U.S. trade policy. The U.S. government has determined that subsides to Airbus are a clear violation of World Trade Organization (WTO) rules. President Bush himself has said that European nations should end their subsidies to Airbus and instructed U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick to “pursue all options to end these subsidies.”“While this case is still pending before the WTO, another branch of the Bush administration is sending a conflicting message by moving to reward European governments to the tune of $35 billion for violating WTO rules. “We should not ask American taxpayers to foot the bill for European subsidies. It is my understanding that Airbus’s airframe, the A330/A340, was developed using $5 billion in taxpayer subsidies compared to zero taxpayer dollars used to develop the Boeing airframe, the 767. That would be a 700% return on investment for European taxpayers. “The Bush administration is on a collision course with itself on this issue, and needs to explain to Congress how they plan to avoid a crash.” ###
03.05.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives today to pass landmark legislation that will end unequal insurance coverage for mental illness and help ensure that patients seeking treatment for mental illness get the care they need. The House passed the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act by a vote of 268 to 148. The Senate has passed similar legislation, and the two bills must be reconciled before final legislation can be sent to the President’s desk. “Ending insurance discrimination against people who need treatment for mental illness and addiction is the right thing to do,” said Larsen. “It is also a smart investment. This bill will save money, not just for families who break the bank paying for needed care their health plans won’t cover, but for businesses losing millions of dollars in lost productivity.” Workers suffering from depression lose 5.6 hours per week of productive work time, costing employers an estimated $31 billion per year, according to a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association. According to another study, alcohol-related illness cost U.S. businesses over $129.5 billion in lost worker productivity in just one year. The bipartisan bill passed today prohibits insurers and group health plans from imposing treatment or financial limitations on mental health benefits that are more restrictive than those applied to other medical care. Importantly, it does not preempt stronger state mental health parity laws in Washington state and other parts of the country. “Mental health parity brings the mind and the body back together and ceases to treat mental health illness as an orphan condition,” said Gary Williams, Human Services Division Supervisor for the Whatcom County Health Department. “Families have been devastated by the cost of obtaining mental health and psychiatric care even though they had insurance. This bill is absolutely essential to providing families and individuals with comprehensive care.”“NAMI Snohomish County strongly supports the current congressional effort to enact mental health parity legislation,” said Jim Bloss, President of the Snohomish County Chapter of NAMI (National Alliance on Mental Illness). “This legislation will make a tremendous positive impact on mental health services availability and delivery for the many sufferers of these disorders in not only Snohomish County but certainly the entire North Sound region in Washington state.” Over the past eight years, the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program has made parity coverage for mental health care available to Members of Congress and 8.5 million other federal employees. Research has shown that there has been no significant cost increase attributable to this new coverage. ###
03.04.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined a bipartisan and bicameral delegation from Washington state and Kansas -- led by U.S. Senator Patty Murray -- to call on Defense Secretary Robert Gates to ensure that the Air Force briefs Boeing this week on the justification for their tanker contract decision. On Friday, the Air Force announced plans to award the $40 billion contract for the next generation of tankers to the European company Airbus. The Air Force has said that they don’t plan to brief Boeing until March 12th.The full text of the letter follows:March 3, 2008The Honorable Robert M. GatesSecretary of Defense1000 Defense PentagonWashington, DC 20301-1000 The Honorable Michael W. WynneSecretary of the Air Force1670 Air Force PentagonWashington, DC 20330-1670Dear Secretary Gates and Secretary Wynne: We write today to request your assistance in having the Air Force debrief the Boeing Company by the end of this week on their tanker decision. It is our understanding that Members of Congress and the public will not be able to access the details of the Air Force’s decision until the bidders have been debriefed. While we appreciate the attention and resources the Air Force has recently invested in the critical issue of the tanker decision, this report needs to be debriefed so the bidders, and in turn Congress and the public, can fully understand the rationale for the decision. The Air Force made their decision, now it must start the debriefing process. If the Air Force was prepared to make the decision, then they should be able to begin the debriefing process immediately. Our understanding was that the Air Force initially planned to debrief bidders within four days of the decision; now the Air Force says it intends to wait until March 12th - nearly two weeks after the Air Force’s announcement. We appreciate your immediate attention to this matter and again request that the Air Force debrief Boeing by the end of the week.Sincerely,Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Sam Brownback (R-KS), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Representatives Norm Dicks (D-WA 6th), Todd Tiahrt (R-KS 4th), Adam Smith (D-WA 9th), Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA 5th)
02.29.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today: “Boeing’s tanker is the best tanker. Boeing has 75 years of experience building the tankers our military flies. Washington state's workers are second to none and so is their product. “I am very concerned that this decision means that the women and men in our military will not get the best tanker to meet our nation’s security needs. “I have not heard a justification from the Air Force. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I will be reviewing the decision in detail. “I will continue to fight for Boeing jobs and the investments that will create them.” ###
02.28.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) testified before the House Budget Committee today on the importance of supporting drug courts and treatment providers and giving law enforcement the resources they need to continue their work fighting drug trafficking and criminal activity. Larsen, who serves as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, has worked to support drug interdiction efforts as well as prevention and treatment initiatives. During the February district work period, Larsen met with 2nd District law enforcement officers, treatment providers and drug court managers to learn about their successes -- as well as the challenges they face due to cuts in federal funding.“A reduction in federal funding to local law enforcement is a victory for drug trafficking organizations,” said Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force Commander Patrick Slack. Slack and members of his Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force staff met with Larsen in Everett, Washington on February 20.“If federal funding is reduced, criminal activity will increase,” Slack continued. “The reduction of federal funding will cause an increase in danger to our children, communities and neighborhoods across this nation.” Funding for Byrne-JAG grants, which help support regional drug task forces and other law enforcement needs, was cut by two thirds in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008. This reduction could force many regional drug task forces across the country to close their doors. If funding for Byrne-JAG grants is not restored this year, the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force is in danger of having to cut as many as six positions from their staff.“Full funding for the Byrne Grants is critical to the continued success of local narcotics task forces in dealing with the ongoing illegal drug sales across our country,” said Everett Chief of Police James Scharf, who met with Larsen this week in Washington, D.C.“Any reductions in funding will only serve to allow for increases of sales in meth, Oxycontin, cocaine, marijuana and heroin which feed the gang problems and violence that all of our communities are facing,” Scharf concluded. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants (Byrne-JAG) program, the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program and the Drug Court Program have all been zeroed out in the President’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2009. After visiting the Snohomish Regional Drug Task Force on February 20, Larsen met with Linda Grant, Executive Director of Evergreen Manor, and several Evergreen Manor clients in recovery from drug addiction. Evergreen Manor is one of two treatment centers that partner with Snohomish County’s highly successful drug court program. Larsen brought local concerns to the attention of the House Budget Committee today, and urged a strong and consistent federal investment in support for local initiatives.“Our commitment to stopping drug trafficking and abuse must begin with strong federal support for local law enforcement,” said Larsen. “But it doesn’t end there. Federal support for treatment and education efforts is just as critical.” “At Evergreen Manor, I met a man in recovery from addiction who made a comment that stuck with me. His goal, he said, was not only to stay clean, but to get his life back. Federal support for drug courts and treatment programs helps save lives.” The full text of Larsen’s testimony to the House Budget Committee, as prepared for delivery, follows: “Thank you, Chairman Spratt, Ranking Member Ryan, and Members of the Committee. I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak to you today about the federal programs that make a critical difference in the fight against drug abuse.“As co-chair of the Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine, I have seen first-hand the devastating impact of meth and other illegal drugs on our communities. Illegal drugs aren’t just a problem for law enforcement – but for our families, schools and businesses. In the past several years, we have made significant progress in closing down “homegrown” labs, but rates of methamphetamine use remain as high as ever.“Meanwhile, law enforcement officers and treatment providers are reporting a sharp increase in the abuse of Oxycodone and other prescription drugs. The increasing incidence of diversion and abuse of these drugs is a disturbing trend that presents a new set of challenges for the men and women that have devoted their lives to ridding our communities of the problems of drug abuse.“Research has increasingly shown that drug addiction is not merely a matter of habit for those addicted but is, in fact, a disease. It is our responsibility as lawmakers to protect our districts and our constituents from the spread of this disease. Our commitment to combating drug trafficking and abuse must begin with our continued support of the federal programs that give our heroes on the frontlines the resources they need to effectively do their jobs.“The first program I want to highlight is the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants Program. This program is the only federal funding awarded to state and local law enforcement on a formula basis. The funds that it provides have gone to support a wide variety of programs critical in the fight against drug abuse, including regional drug task forces.“Byrne-JAG funding was cut by two thirds in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY08. As a result of these cuts many regional drug task forces will be forced to close their doors. Last week, I met with the commander of the Snohomish County Drug Task Force and some of the law enforcement officers who serve on his team. If funding for Byrne-JAG is not restored they are in danger of having to cut as many as six positions from their staff.“These task forces are essential to keeping pressure on drug traffickers and dealers throughout the country and their absence will lead to an increase in drug trafficking, and abuse. The problem of drug trafficking requires a constant and vigilant approach. If this funding is not restored it will have a devastating impact on our ability to combat the spread of meth and other illegal drugs. It would undo much of the progress we have made, and require an increased future commitment in both time and resources just to bring us back to where we are today. “In light of the tremendous cut this year, funding for Byrne-JAG in FY09 is more important than ever. I urge the Committee to recommend funding for this program at its full authorized amount to provide the resources that state and local law enforcement needs to do their jobs. Crime isn’t just a local issue and we owe it to our constituents to help protect them.“Another important law enforcement program within DOJ’s budget is the Community Oriented Policing Services, or COPS, program. In his budget for FY09, the President has zeroed out this critical program. Last year the President proposed cutting the COPS program by more than $500 million dollars. Congress disregarded that request and increased its funding by $45 million. I ask the Committee to again disregard the President’s budget request and provide full funding for COPS in your budget resolution.“Last year I visited the Drug Enforcement Administration’s training facilities at Quantico and took part in some of the training DEA provides for state and local law enforcement. I got a small taste of the dangers faced by the men and women on the front lines of the fight against drugs. They confront dangerous criminals, hazardous chemicals and life-threatening explosives every time they bust a meth lab. Our DEA agents do great work and the training they provide is useful preparation for local law enforcement. I encourage this Committee to include enough funding in its budget resolution to fully fund the DEA.“While efforts to keep drugs out of our communities and out of the hands of our children are essential in the fight against meth and other drugs, we must also make sure we are working to help those that have become addicted to these drugs. Investing in drug treatment programs not only saves the lives of the people in treatment, but reduces the prevalence of drug use and drug related crime in our communities. As long as there is a market for these illicit drugs, the dealers will find a way to deliver them.“I recently visited the Evergreen Manor treatment facility in my district and met with some people in recovery from methamphetamine and opiate addiction. These are people who have worked hard every day and must work hard for the rest of their lives to continuously defeat their addictions. “One of these individuals made a comment that stuck with me. His goal, he said, was not only to stay clean, but to get his life back. Drug addiction can be a death sentence, but even before it kills, it robs people of their lives. By funding drug treatment programs we not only give these people a chance to beat their addictions, we give them the opportunity to get their lives back.“One program I would like to highlight is the Drug Court program, which blends the oversight of a court with the therapeutic capabilities of a drug treatment program. Drug courts are widely recognized as the most effective solution for reducing crime and recidivism among drug-addicted offenders in the criminal justice system. They come at a fraction of the cost of standard incarceration, and they are effective. In my district, the Snohomish County drug court has a 94% success rate. Funded at $40 million in FY05, the Drug Court program has seen significant cuts in recent years. I urge the Committee to include full funding for the Drug Court program in this year’s budget resolution.“Another federal program that is critical for drug treatment programs throughout the country is the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant. This grant is the backbone of our nation’s publicly funded treatment and prevention system and serves our most vulnerable citizens. Providing adequate funding for treatment efforts is a critical step in combating drug abuse.“Finally, I want to emphasize the importance of education and prevention efforts in the fight against drugs. Both the Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities and the Drug-Free Communities programs are critical to ensuring safe, healthy, and drug-free schools. They also provide funds for programs to teach students about the dangers of drug abuse, giving them lessons they may take with them for the rest of their lives.“The programs that I have mentioned here are essential to tackling every angle of the problem of drug abuse. We must continue to be vigilant in our approach to the problems of drug trafficking, and abuse, and maintain a consistent and adequate level of funding for these programs.“I again thank you for the opportunity to address the Committee today. I have additional comments that I will submit for the record.“Thank you and I’m happy to answer any questions.” ###
02.27.2008	Washington, D.C. — On Tuesday, the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee – of which U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is a member – held a hearing on the Coast Guard’s budget for the next fiscal year. The Subcommittee heard testimony from Vice Admiral Robert J. Papp, the Chief of Staff of the Coast Guard and Master Chief Charles W. Bowen, the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Coast Guard. Larsen released the following statement today:“Washington state is home to the country’s largest ferry system, some of our busiest ports and the most trade-focused economy in the nation. Washington state’s maritime industries employ over 9,000 people and countless more depend on our marine transportation system in their daily lives.“The U.S. Coast Guard plays a critical role in protecting our marine transportation infrastructure so people and goods can continue to move safely and efficiently and so our ports, boats and cargo remain secure from future threats.“Under the leadership of Admiral Allen, the Coast Guard is better prepared than ever to protect people and infrastructure at port and at sea. But we must do more to ensure that the men and women of the Coast Guard have the resources they need to meet their expanding responsibilities.“The Coast Guard’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2009 reflects its commitment to improving marine safety. Congress should support the Coast Guard’s request for $20 million to hire 276 new marine inspectors. This investment will help ensure the safety of vessels across the country and the families, communities and businesses they serve.“We must also ensure that the Coast Guard has the resources it needs to continue modernizing its aging fleet. Modern assets including cutters, boats and aircraft will help the Coast Guard better fulfill its missions.”“While the Coast Guard’s budget request for the next Fiscal Year represents a strong investment in our maritime transportation system, other parts of the President’s budget for maritime activities fall short. A $178 million decrease in port security grants is unacceptable at a time of unprecedented growth in seaborne trade. Now is not the time to nickel and dime our nation’s port security.“The President’s budget request for the Assistance to Small Shipyards program is also inadequate. This program provides grants for capital improvements at small shipyards, which are the backbone of Northwest Washington’s marine industry. Congress must continue to support this critical part of our domestic shipbuilding industry.” ###
02.19.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash) and Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced that the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) began seeing patients at an interim clinic in Mount Vernon, Washington on Friday, February 15. Murray and Larsen continue to push the VA to open a permanent community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) in Northwest Washington as soon as possible.“Northwest Washington’s veterans have traveled too far, for too long, to get the health care they need and deserve,” said Larsen. “This temporary facility is a positive step, and Senator Murray and I continue to urge the VA to open a permanent facility as soon as possible to bring health care and services closer to home for Northwest Washington veterans.""Veterans in Northwest Washington have fought for our nation's freedom, they shouldn't have to fight for access to the care they deserve here at home," Senator Murray said. "The opening of this temporary clinic is a move in the right direction, but Rep. Larsen and I will continue to work to ensure that the VA fulfills its commitment to open a permanent facility here. Northwest veterans have waited long enough."For a number of years, Murray and Larsen have pressed the VA to open a permanent community-based outpatient clinic in Northwest Washington, advocating on behalf of many local veterans who spend hours in traffic to get needed medical care at the VA hospital in Seattle. In February, 2007, Murray and Larsen praised the VA's announcement of plans to open a community-based outpatient clinic in Northwest Washington to serve veterans in a five-county area.On Friday, February 15 the VA announced that it has opened a temporary facility at Skagit Valley Hospital to provide primary and mental health services to some veterans enrolled in the VA system. ###
02.18.2008	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) met with Gen. Lowenberg and the Washington State Domestic Security Executive Group in Olympia, Washington to discuss their ongoing work on security and other issues related to the 2010 Olympic Games in Vancouver, B.C.In December, Larsen and other members of the WA delegation, including Senators Murray and Cantwell and Representives Dicks and Smith, sent a letter to The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) asking them to review border and security issues facing the Pacific Northwest region and to provide a plan to fund security needs and ensure interoperability between state, local and federal responders in preparation for the Games.Earlier this month, DHS sent a reponse to Larsen that confirms plans to open a 2010 Coordination Center to be located at the Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine facility in Bellingham, Washington in conjunction with Washington state. The response from DHS fails to identify funding for 2010 Olympics security.“I am pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has confirmed plans for a 2010 Coordination Center in Bellingham, but I am disappointed that, to date, the President and DHS have failed to identify funding for Olympics security,” said Larsen. “Gov. Chris Gregoire has taken critical steps to prepare for the Olympics, and I will continue to work with her and other federal, state and local leaders to ensure that our region's security needs are met and that the Department of Homeland Security is prepared for the Games.”“The federal government controls all bi-national security arrangements," said General Timothy J. Lowenberg, Director, Washington Military Department. "Other than attending State of Washington-hosted meetings and designating a lead federal official, however, the Department of Homeland Security has failed to plan for or resource its own internal requirements or assure federal interoperability with state and local emergency responders. We urge DHS to give priority attention to these security matters.” ###
02.07.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd District) wrote a joint letter last week to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness David Chu in support of a proposed regulation that would increase TRICARE payments to Critical Access Hospitals to a level similar to that of Medicare. This rule, if approved, would significantly benefit Whidbey General Hospital, a Critical Access Hospital in Coupeville, Washington. “This change will bring real relief to Whidbey General and to the many Critical Access Hospitals that provide medical care to a large portion of active military personnel, veterans, and their dependents,” Murray and Larsen wrote in their letter. Whidbey General serves a large portion of military service members, veterans, and their families on Whidbey Island. With the October 2007 reduction of Naval Air Station Whidbey Island’s emergency care services, Whidbey General has been increasingly relied upon to provide the military community with the care they need. Because TRICARE – the military's medical benefits program - has been reimbursing Whidbey General at a low rate, the possibility that Whidbey will stop serving TRICARE beneficiaries has become reality. Aligning TRICARE payments with Medicare rates will allow Whidbey General to continue to provide health care to the military population. "Whidbey General values the relationship we have with the U.S. Navy and its personnel and dependent families," said Scott Rhine CEO of Whidbey General. "They are part of our community and we wish to serve them. We appreciate the support of local and national defense leaders in understanding the dilemma of smaller, rural hospitals. Their willingness to actually put in place the Critical Access Hospital reimbursement model for small hospitals providing care to TriCare patients will insure increased access to needed care in rural areas.""We appreciate the leadership of Senator Murray, Rep. Larsen and other Members in supporting the effort of TRICARE officials to correct an inequity in the reimbursement of Critical Access Hospitals, which are so important in meeting the health care needs of military families across the country." said Dave McIntyre, CEO of TriWest – which provides TRICARE coverage for residents of Whidbey Island.The regulation has been cleared by the Department of Defense and still needs to be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget and subjected to a public comment period. “I am committed to ensuring that Whidbey General can serve the needs of our veterans and service members," said Senator Murray. "I look forward to seeing this rule change through to implementation.”“This proposed rule change will help Whidbey General keep their doors open to local veterans and military families,” said Congressman Larsen. “The community has been waiting a long time for this.”The full text of the letter Murray and Larsen wrote follows: January 31st 2008 The Honorable Robert M. Gates The Honorable David S. C. ChuSecretary of Defense Under Secretary of Defense1000 Defense Pentagon Personnel and ReadinessWashington, DC 20301-4000 4000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Gates and Under Secretary Chu:We are writing to address TRICARE reimbursement rates to hospitals serving rural areas. We have a strong interest in maintaining access to the highest quality health care for servicemembers and veterans, as well as for their dependents. This is especially true for those who need access to health care in rural areas.As you know, Congress established the Medicare Critical Access Hospital program in order to ensure needed health services are available to Medicare beneficiaries in rural areas. Although TRICARE payment policies generally seek to follow Medicare formulas, this is not the case with respect to payments to critical access hospitals. TRICARE reimbursements to critical access hospitals have been historically lower than those of Medicare and Medicaid, and we are concerned about how this affects the ability of critical access hospitals to provide top quality health care to the military community.A number of hospitals in our state are affected by these lower payments. We are specifically concerned for the continued ability of Whidbey General Hospital, a critical access hospital that serves the military community on Whidbey Island, to continue to provide TRICARE services. Whereas Medicare and Medicaid reimburse Whidbey General at approximately 56 percent and 55 percent of charges, respectively, payments from TRICARE average only 39 percent of charges. Whidbey Island is home to Naval Air Station Whidbey Island and is a popular location for military retirees. Since the October 2007 reduction of NAS Whidbey's emergency care services, Whidbey General has been relied on to provide care to an even larger segment of the military population. They have done this despite low TRICARE reimbursements that have a serious budgetary impact on Whidbey General and may lead to Whidbey General eliminating their TRICARE contract.We understand that DoD is in the process of approving a regulation that would increase TRICARE reimbursements to critical access hospitals to a level similar to that of Medicare. This change will bring real relief to Whidbey General and to the many critical access hospitals that provide medical care to a large portion of active military personnel, veterans, and their dependents. This assistance is needed to help ensure that critical access hospitals continue to provide TRICARE services to the military community, and we commend your efforts. We look forward to the timely implementation of this regulation and the release of the draft rule as soon as possible. Should you need our assistance in this process, please feel free to contact us at any time.Sincerely, _________________ __________________Patty Murray Rick LarsenUnited States Senator United States Congressman ###
02.07.2008	Washington, D.C.— A final economic stimulus package that will provide tax rebates to millions of Americans, including over 700,000 Washington state seniors, has passed Congress with support from U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and will be sent to the President’s desk for signature. Earlier today, the Senate added an amendment to the legislation passed by the House last week to make low-income senior citizens, disabled veterans and the survivors of disabled veterans eligible to receive rebate checks. The amended stimulus package (H.R. 5140) passed the House tonight by a vote of 380 to 34.“Congress has taken quick action to help our economy get back on track,” said Larsen. “I’m disappointed that we did not extend unemployment benefits as part of the stimulus package, but I’m glad that disabled veterans and low-income seniors are included in the final bill.” According to an analysis by AARP, 715,067 Washington state residents age 65 and over would be eligible for rebate checks under the plan. Older Americans spend 92% of their income, a higher percentage than other adults. Under the stimulus plan, families will receive tax rebates of up to $1,200 per couple, plus $300 per child, as early as mid-May. The legislation also includes tax relief to help small businesses create jobs, encouraging investments in new equipment and doubling the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments. To expand affordable mortgage opportunities for families at risk of foreclosing on their homes, the measure also includes a one-year increase in the loan limits from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. ###
02.04.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on President Bush’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2009: “Today President Bush released the eighth and final proposed budget of his presidency. Unfortunately, his budget proposal for the next fiscal year is more of the same failed policies: more cuts in funding for local law enforcement and drug courts in the fight against meth, more fee increases for veterans’ health care, more cuts to health care and hunger relief for seniors and more cuts in energy assistance for low-income families, denying more than one million Americans the help they need to heat their homes.” “Our top priority needs to be getting our economy back on track. Cutting funding for education and job training while keeping tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans is not the answer. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to get our fiscal house in order and invest in our communities to keep our economy strong for the future.” “I hope President Bush will work with Congress this year to strengthen our economy, help create jobs and fund our nation’s priorities. We have a lot of work to do, and this country can’t afford to wait until there’s a Democrat in the White House to get it done.” ###
01.30.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) will head to the Gulf Coast on Thursday for a congressional fact-finding trip focused on Navy shipbuilding and Coast Guard shipbuilding and operations. U.S. Rep. Gene Taylor (MS-04) and House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (MO-04) are leading the trip, which includes Larsen and other members of the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee and members of the Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.“As we work to bring more assets to Naval Station Everett, it’s important to understand the assets being built,” said Larsen. “This fact-finding trip is a great opportunity to learn about the latest Navy shipbuilding technology, which is important to the men and women serving at Naval Station Everett and Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. “As Northwest Washington’s shipbuilding industry continues to grow, touring some of the premier shipyards in the country will help me better support this important part of our local economy.“This fact-finding trip also provides an opportunity to view Coast Guard assets and learn about the Coast Guard’s work to turn the troubled Deepwater program around, as well as the Coast Guard’s ongoing efforts to rebuild and improve their operations after Hurricane Katrina,” concluded Larsen, who is a member of both the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee and the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee. The trip will begin with a visit to the Austal Shipyard in Mobile, Alabama on Thursday afternoon to discuss the progress of the Littoral Combat Ship currently under construction there. Friday, Larsen and his colleagues will tour the Ingalls Shipyard in Pascagoula, Mississippi and the Avondale Shipyard in Louisiana. Saturday, the delegation will visit the Coast Guard Integrated Support Command in New Orleans, Louisiana. To schedule an interview with Congressman Larsen about this trip, please contact Amanda Mahnke at Amanda.mahnke@mail.house.gov. ###
01.29.2008	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today for an economic stimulus plan that provides tax rebates to 117 million families across the country, including 2.6 million families in Washington state. The Recovery Rebates and Economic Stimulus for the American People Act (H.R. 5140) passed the House today by a large, bipartisan majority of 385 to 45. “This timely, targeted and temporary stimulus plan is an important first step to help get our economy back on track,” said Larsen. “By acting quickly to deliver tax rebates to working families, and tax relief to small businesses, we aim to jump start our economy and help create jobs.”“As we work out a final agreement with the Senate, extending unemployment benefits as part of our stimulus package would lend a helping hand to Americans looking for work,” Larsen continued. The House bill, which is also backed by the Bush administration, would provide families with tax rebates of up to $1,200 per couple, plus $300 per child, as early as mid-May. The average family in Washington state would get a check for $963 under the plan, according to the U.S. Treasury Department. Of the millions of Americans who would get a rebate check, 13 million are senior citizens and 35 million work but earn too little to pay income taxes. The legislation also includes tax relief to help small businesses create jobs, doubling the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and encouraging investments in new equipment. To expand affordable mortgage opportunities for families at risk of foreclosure, the measure also includes a one-year increase in the loan limits from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for single family homes. ###
01.17.2008	Washington, D.C.— Today the GI Bill for Life Act (H.R. 2247) got a hearing for the first time in the U.S. House of Representatives. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen’s legislation would remove the 10-year time limit on GI Bill benefits to improve education and job training opportunities for veterans. Larsen, along with Washington state veterans who have worked with him on the legislation, submitted written testimony for today’s hearing in the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity, chaired by U.S. Representative Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD).“After leaving the service, many veterans who paid into the GI Bill program must postpone returning to school to care for their families or recover from service-related injuries,” said Larsen. “Helping more veterans get a two or four-year degree will be good for veterans, military families and our 21st century economy. The debt we owe our nation’s veterans doesn’t come with an expiration date, and neither should their GI bill benefits.” The Montgomery GI Bill provides veterans who choose to participate with up to 36 months of benefits for college, technical or vocational courses and other training opportunities. Service members agree to a $100 per month reduction in pay during their first 12 months of active service, for a total contribution of $1,200. While money paid into the program is non-refundable, under current law veterans have a limited amount of time to use their education benefits before they expire. Those who served in active duty have ten years, reservists fourteen years. While approximately 80% of service members contribute to the GI Bill program, only 59% take advantage of their education benefits before they expire, according to statistics from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Larsen’s GI Bill for Life Act, which has been introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), would remove the arbitrary time limit so veterans can access educational and vocational training when the time is right for them.“Keeping America's workforce highly skilled and competitive in today's global economy means increasing education opportunities and guaranteeing our troops receive the education benefits they have earned and deserve,” said Cantwell.Excerpts from Written Testimony in Support of the GI Bill for Life: “…The current job market requires highly trained individuals from accredited institutions. In addition, there continues to be instability within the workforce due to technological advances that could make a vocation obsolete thus requiring retraining well after the 10-year delimiting date. For these reasons The American Legion supports eliminating the ten-year delimiting period for veterans to use Montgomery GI Bill educational benefits.”-American Legion White Paper on the GI Bill for Life “On paper, ten years appears to be ample time to complete a two year degree or even a four year degree. However, most veterans, like me are not prepared to go to school directly after exiting the military. Even those who are prepared, and are able to go fulltime or part time, find themselves balancing responsibilities and obligations of life.”- Dave Fernandez, U.S. Marine Corps veteran from Bow, Washington “As the Washington State Agency charged with advocating for the 670,000 veterans who call Washington State home, I can tell you it is always difficult when we encounter a veterans who is ready to make a positive change in his or her life by going back to school, but is stopped short because the education entitlement (GI Bill benefit) have expired. We can’t always anticipate what will happen in life and some of our veterans are unable, for whatever reason, to use their benefit within the ten year timeframe. Repealing the ten year limit will allow these veterans to further their education using a benefit they earned through their service to our Country.”- John E. Lee, Director, Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs “Just getting back on your feet after your military career takes years and soon the 10 year deadline for using the GI Bill has passed. Or, for some, they may be in school when their 10 year limit runs out. But, this does not change the initial investment these veterans made when they paid in their 1,200 dollars nor does it change the gratitude we owe every veteran for the time they have given to protect those we love; to protect our country and democracy worldwide.”- Linda McGuiness, U.S. Army veteran from Bellingham, Washington “Many of our members are students at local colleges or state universities…Allowing veterans an indefinite period of time to utilize their benefits earned through service to their country is vitally beneficial to those veterans who may not have adequate health or opportunity to gain a college degree within the current 10 year time limitation restriction. We believed that allowing a veteran his or her own time to further their education will create many more successful transitions, successful veterans, businesses and families.”- Tim Nelson, President, Chapter 3, Veterans of Modern Warfare, Bellingham Washington “As a Local Veterans Employment Representative (LVER), almost everyday I see an unemployed Veteran who needs a little more education to get re-employed. I frequently see a Veteran who needs to change occupations entirely. What a perfect time to go back to school, but that benefit that was earned by putting our lives on the line is no longer available.”-Thomas G. Noel, U.S. Coast Guard Veteran from Bellingham, Washington “As returning Vietnam Veterans many of us took advantage of the GI Bill…Over the years veterans had to make a decision either to put food on their table to feed their families or attend college. Those veterans with families had no choice but to go to work and leave behind the education opportunities hoping some day they will be able to return to school. Vietnam Veterans throughout this great nation ask that you remove the 10-year time limitation restriction to allow those seeking to fulfill their dreams to do so.”- Jim Pace, President, Washington State Council of Vietnam Veterans of America “To limit a veteran to 10 years after separation from the service restricts the usability of the benefit…If it is a deserved benefit, then why put a time restriction?”- Stephen Pinello, U.S. Army veteran from Bellingham, WashingtonThe text of Larsen’s testimony for the record follows: Good Afternoon. I want to thank Chairwoman Herseth-Sandlin and Ranking Member Boozman for holding this important hearing. A number of valuable pieces of legislation will be discussed today concerning improvements and modifications to the GI Bill. I am especially pleased that we will be discussing the Montgomery GI Bill for Life Act (HR 2247), legislation I have sponsored and I am thankful to have a number of bipartisan cosponsors. I also want to thank Senator Maria Cantwell for her leadership on this issue and her sponsorship of companion legislation in the Senate. The GI Bill was established in 1944 as a way of giving back to our nation’s veterans who gave so much to our country during World War II. Since it became law, this program has helped millions of veterans afford a two or four-year degree. This historic legislation has improved the lives of many veterans, opening doors and creating opportunities for those who served in the military to serve our country in new ways as civilians. Through the GI Bill, countless veterans have become teachers, scientists and engineers -- to name just a few examples -- and made countless contributions to communities across the country. For all the benefits of the GI Bill, there are clearly areas which need reform. Under current law, the vast majority of service members contribute to the GI Bill program, but only slightly more than half take advantage of their education benefits before they expire. Current law requires that those who served in active duty must use all of their education benefits within 10 years of being discharged. Those serving in the Selected Reserve have 14 years of eligibility to use their GI Bill benefits. We live in a 21st Century world that requires a 21st Century workforce. Advances in technology mean that increasing numbers of Americans need more than a high school degree to succeed. Furthermore, estimates show the average annual earnings of someone with a bachelor’s degree are anywhere from 74 to 87 percent higher than the earnings of someone with a high school diploma. Many veterans are not able to go back to school immediately or within the first several years after they leave the service. Many service members must postpone school to support their families, and many face lengthy rehabilitations from service-related injuries. Others choose to gain experience in the workforce first and need further education down the road in order to advance their careers. Some veterans may be able to start using their benefits within the time frame allowed, but are not able to complete their degree within 10 years. When the benefits run out, many can’t afford to return to school and are unable to complete their degree. We must do more to honor our commitment to veterans and help them access the education benefits they have earned. Veterans should not be limited to an arbitrary timeline that prevents them from getting the education and job training they need when they need it. The GI Bill for Life Act would remove these time limitations and allow our nation’s veterans to use their benefits whenever they see fit. They paid into the program and they should be able to use the program at the right time in their lives and their careers. As more and more veterans come back from Iraq, Afghanistan and other areas of the world, we need to give them the tools they need to succeed in the next stage of their lives. We need to give them every opportunity to transition to civilian life and take advantage of future career opportunities. I want to thank you again for holding this important hearing and for considering the Montgomery GI Bill for Life Act. I look forward to continuing to work with you and the other members of the committee to advance this legislation and help give our nation’s veterans the flexibility they need to be successful. ###
01.16.2008	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the release today by the Bush Administration of $3 million provided by Congress to help Washington state families heat their homes this winter. “Families are reaching deep into their pockets to keep the heat on this winter,” said Larsen. “Many face difficult choices that no one should have to make – like whether to put food on the table or heat their home. The heating assistance provided by Congress and released today by the President will help everyone in our community get the help they need to stay warm.”Last week, Larsen sent a letter with his colleagues U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Jay Inslee urging the President to release Low Income Housing and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds provided by Congress. Congress included $2.57 billion in LIHEAP funding in the omnibus legislation recently enacted – a $400 million increase over last year.With the cost of heating fuel on the rise, communities across Washington state have seen a significant increase in the number of calls for assistance this winter, and the budgets of local agencies have been strapped trying to meet the increased demand for help. For Snohomish County in particular, there was no time to lose. County officials report that without additional resources, they were on track to run out of money for the year by January 18. The text of Larsen’s letter follows: January 11, 2008Dear Mr. President, We are writing to urge you to immediately release the Low Income Housing and Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds for Fiscal Year 2008. As you are aware, the Consolidated Appropriations bill for FY 2008 included $2.57 billion in funding for LIHEAP, including $586 million in contingency funds to be released at your discretion. Unfortunately, while general LIHEAP funding has remained constant, the cost of home energy has risen substantially. The Energy Information Administration has estimated that households will pay between 10 and 22 percent more for heating fuels this winter than they did last year and local budgets are being exhausted trying to meet the increased demand for assistance. This funding gap has made LIHEAP contingency funds critical to providing necessary energy assistance to people throughout the country.In Washington state this demand is real. LIHEAP administrators across the state have reported significant increases in the number of calls for assistance, and some fear they will run out of funding by the end of the month. With the winter season just beginning and more cold-weather months on the way, the situation is dire for many families in need of assistance.Snohomish County, for example, has seen an increase in both the number of people seeking assistance and the amount of money needed per household. The average household grant provided by Snohomish County in December was $405, a 23 percent increase over last year. Snohomish County estimates that they will only be able to serve 19 percent of the LIHEAP eligible population, compared with 29.9 percent last year.Having already served 1,300 households this winter, Snohomish County is on track to run out of funds by January 18th. Consequently the County will be forced to deny service to approximately 1,000 homes that would have received assistance in previous years. For the low-income families that receive this aid, home heating costs make up a disproportionate amount of their total expenditures. Without it, many must choose between buying groceries and heating their homes. Funding is available that will make a real difference for low-income families nationwide this winter. We urge you to release the $586 million in LIHEAP contingency funds recently approved by Congress to provide low income households across the country the help they need to keep their houses warm this winter. CC: Secretary Mike Leavitt Sincerely, Patty Murray Maria CantwellUnited States Senator United States Senator Jay Inslee Rick LarsenUnited States Representative United States Representative###
12.20.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen and members of the Washington delegation sent a letter to President Bush urging him to quickly approve individual federal assistance requested by Governor Chris Gregoire for Snohomish and King Counties. In addition to Larsen, Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell and Representatives Jay Inslee (D-WA-01), Jim McDermott (D-WA-07) and Dave Reichert (R-WA-08) signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: December 20, 2007 President George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to respectfully request your full support of Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire's request for King County and Snohomish County to be added to FEMA disaster 1734 (DR-1734) for Individual Assistance. This action will allow victims of the December storms to begin receiving federal assistance. As you know, King and Snohomish Counties were declared for Public Assistance on December 19, 2007. In addition to the significant damage to public infrastructure and facilities, each county also received a large amount of damage to private property. Homes, businesses and farms in these two counties were all severely damaged. This flood event was dramatically different from previous flooding events in that it affected residents who are simply not accustomed to flood disasters. The damages in King and Snohomish Counties are significantly concentrated, impact special populations (low-income residents and seniors), and are placing substantial emotional strain on victims. In order to help those affected, we request your immediate attention and action to ensure adequate federal assistance is available to those who have suffered. We urge you to work with King County and Snohomish County to provide appropriate relief. Thank you for your consideration to the needs of our constituents affected by this disaster. Sincerely, Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, Reps. Rick Larsen, Jay Inslee, Jim McDermott, and David Reichert Cc: Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency R. David Paulison; FEMA Region X Director Susan Reinertson; Washington state Governor Chris Gregoire. ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has helped secure funding for U.S. Highway 2, Naval Station Everett and other critical Snohomish county priorities including transportation and law enforcement as part of an end-of-the-year appropriations bill passed by Congress. The House and Senate passed the bill this week and have sent it to the President to be signed into law. Larsen released the following statement: “This legislation will help keep Snohomish County’s transportation system safe and strong for the 21st century. Senator Murray and I secured critical funding to improve the safety of U.S. Highway 2, invest in Mukilteo’s multimodal terminal redevelopment project, and create an alternate route for truck traffic to make downtown Granite Falls safer for drivers and pedestrians.“Funding for the Sultan Police Department will help them purchase new technology to fight crime and keep the community safe.” “Resources for the Everett Senior Activity Center will help improve the quality of life for local seniors with meals, medical services and social and educational opportunities.” “Funding for Naval Station Everett will create new training opportunities for sailors and make this homeport even more attractive for new assets in the future.“I appreciate Senator Murray’s leadership in helping deliver these important resources for Northwest Washington. Time and again, she has been a champion for local priorities. “For families in Snohomish County and across the country, this legislation makes critical investments in veterans’ services, health care, education and other priorities here at home. “However, this bill is not perfect. It does not make the full investments I would have hoped in many of our nation’s priorities because of the President’s failure to compromise. But it does represent an important step forward and delivers needed resources for Northwest Washington.“This Congress has made significant progress. We have invested in our economy, national security, veterans’ health care, education and energy independence, making substantial improvements in the lives of Americans. “There is more work to be done, and we will work to accomplish it with the best interests of the American people in mind.” Larsen helped secure the following resources in the bill for Snohomish County and Northwest Washington: $637,000 for safety improvements to U.S. Highway 2; $558,000 for the Everett Senior Activity Center to provide meals, medical services and social and educational opportunities for local seniors; $1.03 million for an alternate truck route to improve the safety of downtown Granite Falls; $980,000 for the Mukilteo multimodal terminal redevelopment project; $10.9 million for a new Fleet Region Readiness Center for Naval Station Everett; $117,500 to help the Sultan Police Department improve the technology they use in fighting crime; $400,000 to help the Northwest Agriculture Business Center create a technological network connecting producers, retailers and distributors so local farmers can get their products to market more efficiently; $1.8 million to help the Washington State Meth Initiative fight meth and keep our communities safe; and $714,400 to create a National Meth Center to help local leaders across the country use the most effective strategies to fight the meth epidemic. ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) helped secure funding to continue the Skagit River General Investigation (GI), bring advanced cancer treatment closer to home for Skagit Valley patients and families and support Skagit County transportation and law enforcement as part of an end-of-the-year appropriations bill passed by Congress. The House and Senate passed the bill this week and have sent it to the President to be signed into law. Larsen released the following statement: “This legislation will bring us closer to completing the GI study and protecting Skagit County families, farms and businesses from future floods. “These resources will help bring advanced technology to treat cancer closer to home for Skagit Valley patients and families. “For families in Skagit County and across the country, this legislation makes critical investments in veterans’ services, health care, education and other priorities here at home. “I appreciate Senator Murray’s leadership in helping deliver these critical resources for Northwest Washington. Time and again, she has been a champion for local priorities.“This omnibus bill is not perfect. It does not make the full investments I would have hoped in many of our nation’s priorities because of the President’s failure to compromise. But it does represent an important step forward and delivers needed resources for Northwest Washington.”“This Congress has made significant progress. We have invested in our economy, national security, veterans’ health care, education and energy independence, making substantial improvements in the lives of Americans. “There is more work to be done, and we will work to accomplish it with the best interests of the American people in mind.” Larsen helped secure the following resources in the bill for Skagit County and Northwest Washington: $547,000 to help the Army Corps of Engineers continue the Skagit River General Investigation, which will identify Skagit River flood problems and opportunities to relieve flooding, reduce flood damage, and develop a flood damage reduction plan; $406,767 to help Skagit Valley Hospital purchase cutting-edge equipment to perform stereotactic radiosurgery, a highly precise form of radiation therapy used primarily to treat brain cancer; $196,000 to help Skagit Transit help purchase replacement buses; $47,000 to provide the Skagit County Drug Enforcement unit with needed tools to bust meth labs and drug trafficking rings; $400,000 to help the Northwest Agriculture Business Center create a technological network connecting producers, retailers and distributors so local farmers can get their products to market more efficiently; $1.8 million to help the Washington State Meth Initiative fight meth and keep our communities safe; and $714,400 to create a National Meth Center to help local leaders across the country use the most effective strategies to fight the meth epidemic. ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) helped secure funding for NAS Whidbey, Ebey’s Landing and other Island County and Northwest Washington priorities as part of an end-of-the-year appropriations bill passed by Congress. The House and Senate passed the bill this week and have sent it to the President to be signed into law. Larsen released the following statement: “This legislation includes funding for Ebey’s Landing to help protect one of Washington state’s natural and historic treasures for future generations. “Providing an indoor washrack for NAS Whidbey means that sailors will no longer have to spend thousands of hours each year washing planes in rain, gale-force winds and low-winter temperatures.“I appreciate Senator Murray’s leadership in helping deliver these critical resources for Northwest Washington. Time and again, she has been a champion for local priorities.“For families in Island County and across the country, this legislation makes critical investments in veterans’ services, health care, education and other priorities here at home. However, this bill is not perfect. It does not make the full investments I would have hoped in many of our nation’s priorities because of the President’s failure to compromise. But it does represent an important step forward and delivers needed resources for Northwest Washington.“This Congress has made significant progress. We have invested in our economy, national security, veterans’ health care, education and energy independence, making substantial improvements in the lives of Americans. “There is more work to be done, and we will work to accomplish it with the best interests of the American people in mind.” Larsen helped secure the following resources in the bill for Island County and Northwest Washington: $10.61 million to build an interior washrack for planes at NAS Whidbey; $492,200 to purchase easements for land at Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve; $400,000 to help the Northwest Agriculture Business Center create a technological network connecting producers, retailers and distributors so local farmers can get their products to market more efficiently; $1.8 million to help the Washington State Meth Initiative fight meth and keep our communities safe; and $714,400 to create a National Meth Center to help local leaders across the country use the most effective strategies to fight the meth epidemic. ###
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) helped secure funding to reimburse Northern border communities for the cost of prosecuting federal crimes, train Whatcom County workers for family wage jobs, help the Port of Bellingham complete a Marine Trades Center and support the Bellingham Police Department, all as part of an end-of-the-year appropriations bill passed by Congress. The House and Senate passed the bill this week and have sent it to the President to be signed into law. Larsen released the following statement: “This legislation includes funding to help relieve the heavy financial burden on our Northern border communities and help them cover the cost of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal crimes. It’s past time Northern border communities got the help they need to keep us safe. “Resources for Bellingham Technical College will help expand training programs to prepare Whatcom County workers for high-skill, family-wage jobs in Northwest Washington. Funding for the Bellingham Police Department will give them resources they need to fight crime and keep our community safe, and resources for the Port of Bellingham will help them complete a Marine Trades Center, a vital part of the waterfront redevelopment project. “I appreciate Senator Murray’s leadership in helping deliver these critical resources for Northwest Washington. Time and again, she has been a champion for local priorities.“For families in Whatcom County and across the country, this legislation makes critical investments in veterans’ services, health care, education and other priorities here at home. However, this bill is not perfect. It does not make the full investments I would have hoped in many of our nation’s priorities because of the President’s failure to compromise. But it does represent an important step forward and delivers needed resources for Northwest Washington.“This Congress has made significant progress. We have invested in our economy, national security, veterans’ health care, education and energy independence, making substantial improvements in the lives of Americans. “There is more work to be done, and we will work to accomplish it with the best interests of the American people in mind.” Larsen helped secure the following resources in the bill for Whatcom County and Northwest Washington: $2,820,000 to help Northern border communities pay for the costs of prosecuting federal crimes. $205,349 to help Bellingham Technical College educate more students, acquire hands-on teaching tools and modernize its curriculum to train energy workers for family-wage jobs $245,000 to help the Port of Bellingham complete a Marine Trades Center for local boat repair, launching and storage, small business services and training in Northwest Washington. $258,000 to help the Bellingham Police Department purchase a new vehicle to respond to emergencies more efficiently, purchase new technology equipment to record crimes and produce forensically accurate evidence. $400,000 to help the Northwest Agriculture Business Center create a technological network connecting producers, retailers and distributors so local farmers can get their products to market more efficiently; $1.8 million to help the Washington State Meth Initiative fight meth and keep our communities safe; and $714,400 to create a National Meth Center to help local leaders across the country use the most effective strategies to fight the meth epidemic. ###
12.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today with a majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass landmark energy legislation that will increase the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks for the first time in 32 years to save consumers money, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and cut greenhouse gas emissions to reduce global warming. The Energy Independence and Security Act (H.R. 6) passed the House by a vote of 314 to 100 and will be sent to the President, who is expected to sign the bill into law tomorrow.“Instead of getting pinched at the pump, consumers today are getting punched at the pump,” said Larsen. “High energy costs are a real burden on families trying to balance their checkbooks, especially during the holiday season.”“This historic energy bill will increase fuel efficiency standards for cars and trucks so Northwest Washington families can spend less on gas and keep more money in their pockets,” Larsen concluded. The Energy Independence and Security Act will: Increase the average fuel efficiency of vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, the first increase passed by Congress in 32 years; Save consumers money by making household appliances, lighting and buildings more energy efficient and; Invest in American-grown biofuels to make agriculture part of the energy solution. ###
12.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — A House-Senate appropriations bill passed last night by the U.S. House of Representatives delays the next round of Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) passport requirements until June 2009. The Bush administration had planned to move forward with new passport requirements next summer. “With the 2010 Olympics just around the corner, it is critical that Northern border crossings are safe, fast and convenient,” said U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the 2010 Olympics Task Force. “This summer’s passport debacle does not inspire confidence that the Departments of Homeland Security and State are moving forward in the right way. This legislation gives them more time to get the job done right.” Larsen has met with the Departments of Homeland Security and State to voice his concerns over the economic losses a poorly-implemented program could cause for communities on the Northern border. In addition to delaying new passport requirements, the legislation passed by the House withholds $75 million from WHTI implementation until results are in from pilot programs in Washington state and elsewhere to test the viability of a secure driver’s license as a passport alternative. The Senate passed similar legislation this spring, and is expected to vote on the House-passed legislation as early as today. ###
12.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today in Beijing, the United States and China concluded the third meeting of the Strategic Economic Dialogue (SED) – a Cabinet-level conversation between the two countries on short and long-term economic issues. U.S. Representatives Mark Kirk (IL-10) and Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chairs of the U.S.-China Working Group in the U.S. House of Representatives, released the following statement on the SED: “Overall, the results of the SED are positive and encouraging. Secretary Paulson negotiated several breakthroughs in the financial services sector which will lead to long-term stability for the Chinese economy and greater access for foreign investors. “The SED also produced watershed agreements in the area of greatest potential for U.S.-China cooperation – environmental protection – including sulfur fuels, biofuels, illegal logging and emissions trading.“However, on the issue of toy and product safety, this round of dialogue gets a failing grade. As American families head to the toy store to do their holiday shopping, we must be able to assure them that the presents they buy for their children are safe. “With no visible forward movement on this issue, the SED largely punted on one of the most important and immediate U.S.-China issues facing the Congress.“Our relationship with China will be the most important diplomatic relationship of the 21st century. Continuing our high-level conversations with China will be critical to continued progress on the issues that matter to the American people. “The U.S. Congress needs to realize that one of the best ways to get progress with the Chinese is to bring them to the table. If Congress – as well as the next President -- support a strong SED, there will be more opportunities to solve our ongoing challenges with China.” ###
12.12.2007	Washington, D.C.— House Armed Services Committee Member U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today with a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the House to pass legislation to restore military readiness, strengthen the armed services with needed training and equipment, and increase pay for men and women serving in the military. As a conferee appointed by House leadership to negotiate an agreement between the House and Senate, Larsen helped craft the final defense authorization bill (H.R. 1585) that passed the House today. The Senate must also pass the agreement before the President can sign it into law. Larsen released the following statement:“I am pleased that the House and Senate have agreed on a defense authorization bill to strengthen our military readiness, protect our servicemen and women with essential training and equipment, and support their service with a 3.5 % military pay raise. “The defense authorization bill will help address equipment shortfalls and ensure that military personnel get the resources they need to do their jobs. “This bill authorizes an additional $17.6 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicles, which have been shown to dramatically reduce the casualties caused by improvised explosive devices (IEDs). “Furthermore, this legislation protects military personnel and families from paying higher fees for health care through the TRICARE program, and includes the Wounded Warrior Act to ensure that injured servicemen and women get the best possible care and the help they need to transition to civilian life. “I urge the President to sign this important bill to strengthen our armed services and support the men and women who serve our country in the military.” ###
12.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, a unified Washington state Congressional delegation sent a letter to President George W. Bush urging him to quickly approve the federal assistance that Governor Chris Gregoire has requested. The text of the letter follows: December 6, 2007President George W. BushThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President:We write to urge you to approve as quickly as possible the federal disaster declaration requested by Governor Chris Gregoire on December 6, 2007.As you know, on December 2, 2007, a very strong wind and rain storm swept through Washington state, causing heavy wind and water damage across much of Western Washington. At least four people have lost their lives, and thousands of people must now try to repair the damage to their homes and businesses. Major interstate traffic routes, including Interstate 5, the primary transportation artery between Seattle and Portland, have been closed due to widespread flooding. The many seriously-impacted counties and communities in Washington are responding well to this disaster, as is the state of Washington. However, a disaster of this magnitude also requires federal assistance to help in the recovery effort. We therefore urge you to approve a federal disaster declaration as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your quick attention to this matter. Sincerely,_____________________ ______________________Patty Murray Maria CantwellUnited States Senator United States Senator______________________ ______________________Norm Dicks Jim McDermottMember of Congress Member of Congress______________________ ______________________Doc Hastings Jay Inslee Member of Congress Member of Congress ______________________ ______________________Adam Smith Brian BairdMember of Congress Member of Congress______________________ ______________________Rick Larsen Cathy McMorris RodgersMember of Congress Member of Congress______________________Dave ReichertMember of Congress ###
12.06.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today with a majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass landmark energy legislation to increase the fuel efficiency of cars and trucks, invest in American biofuels and require that 15 percent of electricity comes from renewable sources. The Energy Independence and Security Act is fully paid for and shifts subsidies away from traditional production and toward investments in renewable resources and conservation. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 235 to 181. The Senate is expected to consider the legislation as early as this week. “The Energy Independence and Security Act makes a landmark investment in energy independence and national security,” said Larsen. “This legislation invests the energy of our country in the energy of the future.” “By increasing fuel efficiency standards for American cars and trucks and reducing U.S. dependence on foreign sources of oil, this bill will strengthen our national security and reduce greenhouse gases to fight global warming.” “We need to get this bill through the Senate and signed into law so American families can keep more money in their pockets and spend less at the tank,” Larsen concluded. Key provisions of the Energy Independence and Security Act: Increases the efficiency of vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, the first congressional increase in 32 years; Makes a historic commitment to American-grown biofuels, making agriculture part of the energy solution; Requires for the first time that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources; Improves the energy efficiency of a wide range of household products, appliances, lighting and buildings; and Invests in clean renewable and alternative energy tax incentives to help reduce greenhouse gases and create jobs. ###
11.29.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group in the House, congratulated United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab on her efforts to resolve a key trade dispute between the United States and China. In the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the two nations, China agreed to fully eliminate unfair subsidies that initiated a U.S.-led World Trade Organization (WTO) dispute in February.“I want to congratulate Ambassador Schwab on her hard work to resolve this important issue. This agreement shows the value of having an international-rule-based system of trade where fair agreements can be reached. “These unjust subsidies were providing unfair benefits to China’s manufacturing and IT industry at our expense. This represents a perfect case of how the WTO mechanisms and dialogue effectively bring nations together to tackle hard problems.” ###
11.28.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today at the Port of Bellingham, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced his support for Bellingham’s bid to be the new site for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)’s Marine Operations Center Pacific (MOC-P). This fall, NOAA began the process of identifying and assessing future sites for the facility, which is currently located in Seattle. Larsen was joined at the Port today by Bellingham Mayor Dan Pike, Port of Bellingham Executive Director Jim Darling, Dean of Western Washington University’s Huxley College Brad Smith and All American Marine CFO Del McAlpine. Larsen released the following statement: “I am here today to announce that I stand with you, the Port and City of Bellingham, Western Washington University, and the Whatcom County community in support of Bellingham as a new home and a new beginning for NOAA.“After carefully considering the merits of Bellingham’s case, I have come to the conclusion that NOAA belongs in Bellingham.“As NOAA begins the process of evaluating future sites for the Marine Operations Center, now is the time to take a stand and make our case. “NOAA has a blank slate to make this decision and will evaluate each site on its merits. Ports in and around Washington state will throw their hats in the ring. Our task is to make it clear to NOAA what we already know -- that Bellingham offers the best new beginning for this important facility. “The Port of Bellingham has put us in an excellent position to offer NOAA a new home. Bellingham offers flexibility, with piers and facilities that can be improved and expanded to meet NOAA’s needs.“A Bellingham-based NOAA facility would build partnerships and take advantage of research and education opportunities offered by Western Washington University and other area schools.“Finally, Bellingham offers NOAA tremendous community support, a strong marine trades industry, and a skilled labor pool.“As the Representative for not only Whatcom County, but all of Northwest Washington, I am excited about this and other opportunities to bring new assets and new ships to Northwest Washington ports. “After careful consideration, in my mind there is only one answer for NOAA -- Bellingham.” ###
11.15.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement tonight after voting for H.R. 3773, legislation to extend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The bill passed the House by a vote of 227 to 189. “This legislation gives the intelligence community the tools it needs to keep Americans safe and effectively track down terrorists around the world. “Our legislation ensures that an independent judicial authority outside of the executive branch must approve any surveillance of U.S. citizens. Independent judicial oversight is essential to making sure that the constitutional rights of American citizens are protected. “Opponents of this legislation would offer a false choice between tracking down terrorists and protecting the privacy of innocent Americans. Do not believe them. We can do both. This bill does both.” ###
11.14.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted with a majority of his colleagues in favor of H.R. 4156, legislation to change the mission of U.S. forces in Iraq and begin the redeployment of U.S. troops within 30 days of the bill’s enactment. The bill provides $50 billion to meet the needs of troops in Iraq and Afghanistan and prohibits the deployment of any troops not fully trained and equipped. Larsen released the following statement after the bill passed the House by a vote of 218 to 203, with one Member voting present. “The American people have spoken loud and clear. Now is the time to begin the strategic redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq and refocus our efforts on fighting terrorists.”“The United States needs to end our military involvement in Iraq’s civil war and re-focus our efforts on defeating terrorists wherever they are, including Iraq. Our current policy in Iraq is hindering our military readiness and our ability to fight terrorists around the world.”“This bill gives our servicemen and women the resources they need to do their jobs, but it does not give President Bush the blank check he has requested.” Larsen is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. ###
11.14.2007	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007, legislation that reauthorizes the Head Start program for the first time in a decade, provides more resources to serve children and families and ensures that highly-qualified and well-trained teachers teach at Head Start programs. The legislation -- which passed the House by a vote of 381 to 36 -- authorizes $7.35 billion for Fiscal Year 2008 to help tens of thousands more children succeed in school. The bill must also pass the Senate before it can be signed into law.“The Head Start program gives economically disadvantaged children the help they need to become effective learners and successful students,” said Larsen. “In the long run, investing in Head Start means stronger students, stronger families and stronger classrooms in which all of our children can grow and thrive.” In the 40 years since the program was founded, Head Start has served 20 million children and families. Through Head Start, parents receive educational and professional support to help them be better parents and community members, and children receive health, nutrition, and educational support to help them learn. Resources for Head Start grants have been stagnant in recent years, and the Improving Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007 will increase funding to help more children arrive at kindergarten ready to succeed.“In recent years, flat funding along with increased costs has strained our resources and impacted services,” said Joan Youngquist, Director of Skagit/Islands Head Start. “Skagit/Islands Head Start enrolls 431 children in Skagit, Island and San Juan Counties, and we already have a wait list of over 300 children waiting to get in. We are particularly excited about the long term possibility of increasing Early Head Start services because of the high need and the strong impact this “birth to three” program makes early in children’s lives.” Started in 1995, the Early Head Start program serves children from birth to three years of age in recognition of mounting evidence that the earliest years are hugely important to children's growth and development. The Head Start for School Readiness Act provides resources to expand Early Head Start so more children can receive educational help and other services during this critical period. ###
11.13.2007	Washington, D.C. — {The U.S. House of Representatives has passed a House-Senate agreement on transportation funding which includes millions of dollars for Northwest Washington secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA), including resources to make safety improvements to U.S. Highway 2, purchase new buses for Skagit Transit and construct a Marine Trades Center as part of the Port of Bellingham’s Waterfront Redevelopment Project. The conference report on Transportation-HUD Appropriations for Fiscal Year 2008 (H.R. 3074) passed the House today by a vote of 270 to 147. To become law, these appropriations must either be signed by the President or pass both Houses of Congress by veto-proof majorities. “This legislation will strengthen our Northwest Washington transportation system and help keep it safe and strong for the 21st century,” said Larsen. “Real progress is being made at the state and local level to improve the safety of Highway 2, and Senator Murray and I will keep fighting to support local efforts with this critical funding,” said Larsen. “I appreciate Senator Murray’s leadership in the Senate as a transportation champion for Washington state. Working together at the local, state and federal level, we can strengthen our transportation infrastructure to protect lives and livelihoods in Northwest Washington,” Larsen concluded.“From improving the quality of life of seniors in Everett to helping to fix a dangerous stretch of Highway 2, this bill makes the right investments in Washington state’s safety and infrastructure,” Senator Murray said. “Rep. Larsen has been a great partner in this effort, and I look forward to standing with him against the President’s threatened veto.”Larsen, who serves on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, helped secure the following projects for Northwest Washington: $650,000 for U.S. Highway 2 Safety Improvements:U.S. Highway 2 between Snohomish and Skykomish, Washington is a dangerous stretch of highway where there have been 43 fatal accidents since 1999. Federal funding will enable the construction of safety improvement projects identified in the U.S. 2 Route Development Plan (RDP). These improvements will help to reduce fatal and injurious crashes, improve traveler and pedestrian safety, and reduce congestion. $600,000 for the Everett Senior Activity Center:The House-Senate agreement includes $600,000 for the Everett Senior Activity Center, an increase over the $150,000 passed by the House this summer. The Senior Activity Center in Everett, Washington provides opportunities for continued learning, social interaction, meals, and medical services for people over 55 years of age. In recent years, the Everett Senior Activity Center has become more popular and currently serves an average of 5,100 seniors a month. This funding would be used to build an elevator to make the facility more accessible and to expand the multipurpose room to accommodate more seniors. $1.05 million for an Alternate Freight Route for Granite Falls:Increasing traffic volumes and safety issues in the downtown core of Granite Falls, Washington have prompted the City and Snohomish County to propose an alternate route for truck traffic. Congestion, specifically caused by freight trucks with trailers, adversely impacts the city’s streets, particularly when school buses and general rush hour traffic compete with log and quarry truck access. An Alternate Freight Route will help increase safety for motorists, reduce air and noise pollution caused by trucks and aid in the economic redevelopment of downtown Granite Falls. It will also improve access and reduce travel times for trucks transporting rock and gravel from seven quarries in the area. $1 Million for Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal Redevelopment:The House-Senate agreement includes $1 million for Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal Redevelopment, an increase over the $750,000 passed by the House this summer. The Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal Redevelopment includes a new passenger terminal building with overhead loading, pedestrian and bicycle holding areas, two ferry slips to allow for the expansion of a three-boat schedule, commuter rail pedestrian connections, a bus platform for local and express buses, a park and ride lot and an expanded vehicle holding area for 260-300 vehicles. Redevelopment will increase seamless links to bus, rail and non-motorized modes of transportation and will help reduce congestion and expand ferry service. $200,000 for Five Replacement Buses for Skagit Transit:The House-Senate agreement includes $200,000 for replacement buses for Skagit Transit, an increase over the $150,000 passed by the House this summer. Dramatic growth in Skagit County has outpaced Skagit Transit’s ability to purchase updated vehicles and keep up with standard maintenance. Skagit Transit’s current fleet includes a number of over-utilized older buses traveling over rough roadways resulting in excessive wear and tear. The maintenance and repair needs have placed significant strain on Skagit Transit and buses are becoming unreliable. This funding will help purchase five replacement buses for Skagit Transit.$250,000 for the Bellingham, Washington Marine Trades Center:The Port of Bellingham, Washington has acquired property from Georgia-Pacific which is being redeveloped for public and commercial purposes. The site includes a 250,000 square foot warehouse and former industrial treatment lagoon, which the Port of Bellingham plans to rehabilitate into the Bellingham Marine Trades Center. When completed, the Center will serve as a location for local boat repair, launching and storage, related small business services and training for the marine industry in Northwest Washington. ###
11.09.2007	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in support of legislation to provide Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) relief for middle-class families, extend Washington state’s sales tax deduction for one year, and put money back in the pockets of college students, teachers, homeowners and other working Americans. The tax relief bill (H.R. 3996) passed the House today by a vote of 216 to 193.“The passage of a one-year AMT fix sends two important messages: Democrats continue to be the party of middle-class tax relief, and we continue to be the party of fiscal responsibility. “The alternative minimum tax was originally intended to eliminate loopholes and make sure wealthy Americans paid their fair share of taxes. But because AMT legislation failed to take inflation into account, millions of middle-class families face a tax hike this year if Congress fails to act. “This legislation will make a real difference for middle-class families. In 2005, 3,572 families in Northwest Washington paid the alternative minimum tax. But if Congress fails to take action this year, 46,067 middle-class families in Northwest Washington will be burdened by the alternative minimum tax. “This legislation is fiscally responsible, and shows once again that Democrats are the party of “pay as you go,” while the Republicans are the party of “borrow and spend.” Make no mistake -- the days of deficit spending are over. We will not leave our children footing the bill by racking up deficits now.” ###
11.08.2007	Washington, D.C.— House Armed Services Committee Member U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of a House-Senate agreement on defense appropriations which will improve U.S. military readiness by funding needed equipment and training, and support military families by investing in military health care and a pay raise for Armed Services personnel. The funding bill passed the House by vote of 400 to 15, and must be passed by the Senate before it can be signed into law. “The Department of Defense appropriations bill will strengthen our military readiness by funding needed equipment, training and cutting-edge weaponry, including body armor and armored vehicles that save lives in Iraq.“This bill invests in military health care to help wounded servicemen and women get the care they need to recover, and protects health care for military personnel, retirees and their families by rejecting the President’s proposed fee increases for the TRICARE program.” “This bill funds a 3.5% pay raise for all military personnel, sending them a strong message of support and a well-deserved raise.” “Finally, the Department of Defense appropriations bill supports our military families who sacrifice so much by funding facilities and services – including education and child care -- on military bases.” Larsen helped secure the following funding for Northwest Washington in the bill:$1.2 Million for Electronic Warfare Training at Naval Air Station Whidbey This funding will be used to expand joint electronic warfare training at Whidbey Island. During the last fiscal year, the U.S. Navy's Electronic Attack Warfare School (EAWS) at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island trained four cadres of military personnel to fill vacant or newly-created electronic warfare billets in Army and Marine Corps combat units. This $1.2 million will help the school continue their work training electronic warfare staff officers for all branches of the Armed Services. $1.2 Million to Develop a Multi-Mission Armored Watercraft This funding would be used by Bellingham-based Aluminum Chambered Boats to construct a multi-mission watercraft that combines advanced electronics for communication with effective, light-weight armor. The watercraft would use advanced electronics to enable communications with Army, Navy, Marine and Air Force tactical operations.$1.6 Million for Research and Development in Underwater Fence Technology This funding is for research and development into underwater fence technology that could be used at Naval Station Everett. The Expeditionary Swimmer Defense System is an environmentally-friendly underwater security barrier that uses electro-optical cables to protect Naval facilities. ###
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the Peru Free Trade Agreement (FTA), which is scheduled for a vote this week in the U.S. House of Representatives. Larsen will vote for the Peru FTA when it comes to the House floor. “The Peru Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will open market access for Washington goods and services and increase intellectual property right protections for Washington software and technology. Under previous trade preference agreements, 90% of goods coming to United States from Peru are already duty-free. This agreement will level the playing field for Washington state products sold in Peru. “This agreement will open markets for Washington state farms and create jobs for Washington state businesses. Because most Washington state agricultural products are not produced in Peru, this FTA will create more opportunities for our local farms. Washington state agriculture will immediately benefit from significantly reduced or eliminated tariffs under this agreement, so more Washington apples, potatoes, and other products can be sold in Peruvian markets. “I fought hard with my Democratic colleagues to make sure that enforceable labor and environmental standards – standards with real teeth – were included in this agreement. The Peru FTA will improve working conditions and strengthen environmental protections by including the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) five core labor standards and ensuring the enforcement of multilateral environmental agreements. “Helping those who may be negatively impacted by trade is a vital part of overall trade policy. That is why I am a longtime supporter of legislation to strengthen the Trade Adjustment Assistance program. “Last week, the House passed Trade and Globalization Act of 2007 to update the Trade Adjustment Assistance program for the 21st century economy. Our legislation gives a helping hand to displaced service sector workers, a huge and growing part of the American economy who have been excluded from Trade Adjustment Assistance in the past, and improves job training services and TAA health benefits for all displaced workers to make sure they have the tools they need to compete and thrive.” ###
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — Late last night, The House passed a House-Senate agreement on military construction and veterans funding which includes appropriations for Snohomish and Island counties secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA). The bill passed the House by a vote of 269 to 142. To become law, these appropriations must either be signed by the President or pass both Houses of Congress by veto-proof majorities.The Military Construction-VA Appropriations bill provides the largest funding increase for veterans health care in history to strengthen quality care for 5.8 million patients, including many of the 75,000 veterans who call Northwest Washington home. These resources will help reduce the backlog of veterans (400,000 claims) waiting for their earned benefits by adding 1,800 claims processors, help provide much-needed maintenance for VA health care facilities, and invest in treatment for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) for returning veterans. For men and women currently serving in the armed forces, the funding bill provides resources for better barracks, housing and training facilities through an unprecedented $21.5 billion investment in military construction, family housing, and BRAC. Larsen helped secure the following appropriations for Northwest Washington: $10.9 Million for a Fleet Region Readiness Center for Naval Station EverettThe final funding bill includes $10.9 million for a 28,430 square foot training center to support surface ship training. The readiness center will support sailors assigned to five DDG Destroyers, two Frigates and the USS Abraham Lincoln, and will also provide training courses not currently available in the region. “This funding will help provide training opportunities at Naval Station Everett that weren’t there before,” said Larsen. “I am confident that building infrastructure like this will make Naval Station Everett even more attractive for new Naval assets in the future.” $10.6 Million for an Indoor Aircraft Washrack for Naval Air Station Whidbey IslandThree hundred and ninety-one aircraft are washed each year at Naval Air Station Whidbey Island. It takes as many as 12 sailors three hours each to wash one of these planes. These sailors must do so during periods of rain, gale force winds and low winter temperatures. These resources will fund an interior washrack at NAS Whidbey so that planes can be washed indoors. Larsen secured this funding last year as well, but it never became law as the Republican Congress failed to pass the military appropriations bill. “An indoor washrack will not only lengthen the service life of the planes at NAS Whidbey, but will also help make the quality of life even better for the sailors stationed there,” said Larsen. ###
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — A provision secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) in the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) to return the waterfront portion of the Whatcom Creek Waterway from federal to local control – an essential step in the City of Bellingham’s Waterfront Redevelopment Project – passed the House late last night over the President’s veto. “Bellingham’s waterfront redevelopment is a team effort and I am glad I could play a small part to help the project move forward,” said Larsen. “The redevelopment project is all about bringing the waterfront to the community of Bellingham, and returning this part of the waterfront to local control is an important step along the way.” Larsen worked to make this change in federal law after the Port of Bellingham requested his help to get it done. In February, Larsen wrote to Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman Oberstar and key committee leaders asking them to include in the water resources bill a provision to make the Whatcom Creek Waterway locally managed. A locally-managed inner waterway will allow the City of Bellingham to build the docks needed for recreational boats and make other improvements to prepare the site for a broader mix of uses, including additional public access, moorage, residential, businesses, and light industry. As long as the waterfront section of the waterway was designated as a federal channel, the City needed to comply with certain federal requirements that restricted the waterfront’s use. “Congressman Larsen showed great leadership in working for the passage of WRDA so that this important legislation can move forward,” said Scott Walker, Port of Bellingham Commission President. “Passage of WRDA is a key component for our waterfront redevelopment because it includes language that will return the Whatcom Waterway to local control allowing us to build new visitor docks, bridges and other essential elements in bringing our community vision to reality.”The Whatcom Creek Waterway provision passed the House as part of the bipartisan Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which authorizes more than 200 projects to protect lives and livelihoods in communities across the country from the devastating impacts of flooding by building and repairing floodwalls and levees and restoring wetlands that absorb floodwaters. The bill was vetoed by President Bush last week, but the House overrode the President’s veto last night. A veto-proof majority in the Senate is expected to act soon to override the President’s veto as well. ###
11.07.2007	Washington, D.C. — {Late last night, The House passed a House-Senate agreement on health, education, labor and veterans funding which includes appropriations for Skagit and Whatcom counties secured by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02). The bill passed the House last night by a vote of 269 to 142. The Senate is scheduled to consider the bill today, and the President has threatened a veto. To become law, these appropriations must either be signed into law by the President or pass both Houses of Congress by veto-proof majorities. The conference report on the Labor-HHS-Education appropriations bill complies with the Democrat’s five-year balanced budget plan, provides the largest increase for veterans health care in history, rejects the President’s proposed cuts to needed resources for health care and education -- increasing the maximum Pell Grant award and strengthening job training programs -- and makes critical investments in home heating assistance and grants for life-saving medical research. The bill includes the following appropriations for Northwest Washington: Funding for Skagit Valley Hospital Regional Cancer Care Center The final funding bill includes $425,000 – an increase on the $250,000 passed by the House this summer -- to help Skagit Valley Hospital purchase cutting-edge equipment to perform stereotactic radiosurgery, a highly precise form of radiation therapy used primarily to treat brain cancer. It is a non-surgical procedure that uses x-rays to treat certain types of tumors, inoperable lesions and is also used as a post-operative treatment to eliminate any leftover tumor tissue. “These resources would help bring this advanced technology closer to home for Skagit Valley patients and families,” said Larsen. The newly-opened Skagit Valley Hospital Regional Cancer Care Center provides critical medical services to Northwest Washington’s five counties. Over 600 Skagit Valley residents are diagnosed with cancer annually. Since 2000, the number of cancer patients seeking treatment at Skagit Valley Hospital has increased by 15 percent. “We sincerely appreciate Congressman Larsen’s leadership,” said Skagit Valley Hospital CEO Gregg Davidson. “This funding really helps us bring the best cancer treatments to patients who desperately need it and is yet another example of the strong investment our community has made in bringing world-class healthcare to Mount Vernon and Skagit County.” Funding for Bellingham Technical College The funding bill passed last night includes $215,000 – an increase on the $150,000 passed by the House this summer -- to help Bellingham Technical College train energy workers for family wage jobs in Northwest Washington. The funding would help Bellingham Technical College’s Alternative Energy and Process Technology Workforce Development Project educate more students, acquire hands-on teaching tools and modernize its curriculum. “With these resources, Bellingham Technical College could expand their training programs that prepare Whatcom County workers for high-skill, family-wage jobs right here in Northwest Washington,” said Larsen. The Northwest region is home to four large petroleum refineries and four power co-generation plants. With more than 50 percent of the workforce in these facilities projected to retire over the next 5-10 years, highly-skilled workers will be in demand for family-wage jobs. ###
11.05.2007	Washington — Earlier today, international news agencies reported U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates is expected to announce a formal agreement to establish a military hotline, or Defense Telephone Link, between the U.S. and China during his visit this week to the People’s Republic of China.In response, U.S. Reps. Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) and Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), the co-chairs of the 60-member bipartisan House U.S.-China Working Group, released the following joint statement:“After nearly two years of intense dialogue and shuttle diplomacy, the establishment of a defense hotline between the U.S. and China marks a watershed moment in U.S.-China relations.” “When we first raised this issue with General Cao in January 2006, we noted that clear and direct lines of communication during times of crisis are critical to maintaining peace and security. We congratulate Secretary Gates and Minister Cao for this landmark achievement and look forward to building on this success in defense cooperation.” ###
11.05.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has called for a hearing in the House Homeland Security Committee on problems with the NEXUS program that have made efficient cross-border travel difficult for many of his constituents in Northwest Washington. The NEXUS program allows pre-screened, low-risk travelers to be processed more rapidly at the U.S.-Canadian border. In letters sent today to Homeland Security subcommittee chairs Reps. Christopher Carney (PA-10) and Loretta Sanchez (CA-47), Larsen expressed concerns about a number of problems his constituents have experienced with the NEXUS program in recent months, including a rigid “zero-tolerance” policy for minor violations, staffing shortages that have led to lengthy delays at the border, disconnects between the Vermont processing office and local NEXUS offices in Washington state, and the absence of an appeals process for constituents to challenge the denial or cancellation of their NEXUS cards. “My office has heard from over 40 constituents who have experienced serious problems with their NEXUS applications or renewals,” said Larsen. “We need to get to the bottom of the problems that seem to be crippling this important program. With long lines at the border and the 2010 Winter Olympics just around the corner, it is imperative that the NEXUS program be efficient and secure and protect cross-border commerce.” [The text of Larsen’s letter to Chairwoman Sanchez follows below. Larsen sent an identical letter to Chairman Carney.] November 5, 2007The Honorable Loretta SanchezChairwomanSubcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global CounterterrorismCommittee on Homeland SecurityWashington, D.C. 20515Dear Chairwoman Sanchez:I have been contacted by a large number of constituents over the past six months regarding the NEXUS program within Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the numerous problems the program has faced this year. Due to the importance of the program to both CBP and to my constituents, I am writing to ask for a hearing in the Subcommittee on Border, Maritime and Global Counterterrorism regarding the NEXUS program.As you know, the NEXUS program allows pre-screened, low-risk travelers to be processed with little or no delay by United States and Canadian officials at designated highway lanes at high volume border crossing locations, at a NEXUS kiosk at the Canadian Preclearance airports, and at certain marine reporting locations in the Great Lakes and Seattle, Washington regions. Approved applicants are issued a photo-identification/proximity card.With long lines at the border and the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver/Whistler, British Columbia not far into the future, it is imperative that the NEXUS program be efficient, secure and protect cross border commerce. Unfortunately, NEXUS has seen crippling problems this summer. As you can see from the attached, the NEXUS program has faced a number of issues including: A rigid “zero-tolerance” policy. Staffing shortages leading to lengthy delays. Disconnects between the Vermont processing office and the local NEXUS offices. A lack of an appeals process for constituents to challenge their revocations and denials. It is my belief that the NEXUS program is critical to having a safe and efficient Northern Border and I urge the Subcommittee to hold a hearing on the concerns about this important program.Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions.Sincerely,Rick LarsenUnited States RepresentativeWashington State, 2nd District ###
11.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the announcement today by Whidbey-Island based Nichols Brothers Boat Builders, Inc. that they are ending operations at their Freeland and Langley facilities: “This announcement is a great surprise. Matt and all the workers have consistently developed quality boats that are used all over the United States. “I have asked my office to offer any assistance we can to help laid-off employees access the resources they need to find new jobs.” ###
11.02.2007	Washington, D.C. — At a ceremony at the Pentagon today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) congratulated First Lieutenant Walter B. Jackson of Oak Harbor, Washington on receiving the Distinguished Service Cross for extraordinary heroism in combat operations in Iraq. “I thank First Lieutenant Jackson for his extraordinary service to his comrade and his country,” said Larsen. “Washington state and the nation will always remember his courage and his selfless heroism.” According to his Distinguished Service Cross citation, Second Lieutenant Jackson (who has since been promoted to First Lieutenant) “distinguished himself as a Company Fire Support Officer on 27 September 2006 while engaged in combat operations against an armed insurgent force in Al Anbar Province, Iraq, during Operation Iraqi Freedom. “While recovering a disabled vehicle, Second Lieutenant Jackson’s unit came under heavy enemy machine gun fire. Despite the danger, he applied first aid to a severely wounded comrade and was then hit in his thigh with a bullet. Upon regaining consciousness after being shot, Second Lieutenant Jackson alternated between returning fire and administering first aid to the Soldier. “Second Lieutenant Jackson was hit again with machine gun fire as he helped carry his wounded comrade to safety, but he never faltered in his aid. Although his own severe wounds required immediate evacuation and surgical care, Second Lieutenant Jackson refused medical assistance until his wounded comrade could be treated. “Second Lieutenant Jackson’s selfless courage under extreme enemy fire were essential to saving another Soldier’s life and are in keeping with the finest traditions of military service, reflecting great credit upon himself, Company A, Task Force 1-36 Infantry, and the United States Army.”
10.31.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today with a majority of his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the bipartisan Trade and Globalization Act of 2007 (H.R. 3920), legislation to update and expand the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to include more American workers and improve training opportunities and health care benefits for those who lose their jobs due to international trade. Larsen is a longtime supporter of strengthening trade adjustment assistance, and this year cosponsored the Trade Adjustment Assistance Improvement Act which became part of today’s bill. “The time for this legislation is now,” said Larsen. “Our 20th century Trade Adjustment Assistance program needs to be updated for the 21st century economy. The legislation we passed today gives a helping hand to displaced service sector workers, a huge and growing part of the American economy who have been excluded from Trade Adjustment Assistance in the past. Our bill also improves job training services and TAA health benefits for all displaced workers to make sure they have the tools they need to compete and thrive.” Under current law, service sector employees cannot get benefits under TAA if their jobs are moved overseas. In addition to expanding assistance to service sector workers, the Trade and Globalization Act closes loopholes in current law to ensure that all manufacturing workers who lose their jobs because their factory moves offshore can get TAA benefits. The legislation would also create benefits and tax incentives for industries and communities damaged by overseas trade and increase health benefits available to displaced workers.
10.25.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass significantly revised children’s health care legislation that fulfills the goal of providing health care coverage to 10 million American children -- including thousands in Northwest Washington – and responds to concerns about an earlier version of the bill vetoed by the President. “This legislation makes significant changes to our earlier bill while still delivering health care to 10 million American kids who need it,” said Larsen. “Congress is committed to providing health care to 10 million children. The legislation we passed today gives President Bush another chance to make the right choice for kids.” On October 3, President Bush vetoed the bipartisan State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bill (H.R. 976), which would have provided 10 million American children with health care. That legislation had passed Congress by strong, bipartisan votes in both the House and Senate. The bill passed by the House today (H.R. 3963) makes significant changes to the earlier legislation. It caps coverage at 300 percent of the poverty line and clarifies that the legislation is focused on enrolling low-income children first. It includes stronger language to make it clear that the legislation does not extend coverage to illegal immigrants. And in response to concerns about adults being covered by the bill, it phases out coverage for childless adults already receiving coverage over the course of one year instead of two. NORTHWEST WASHINGTON NUMBERS BY COUNTY: According to estimates from the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services, the revised Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007 could help thousands of additional children in Island, San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties get the health care coverage they need: Island County: 338 additional children could get health care coverage they need San Juan County: 62 additional children could get the health care coverage they need Snohomish County: 963 additional children could get the health care coverage they need Skagit County: 835 additional children could get the health care coverage they need Whatcom County: 1,257 additional children could get the health care coverage they need (Estimated numbers based on maximum enrollment; a smaller number of additional children are likely to actually be enrolled in the program.) ###
10.23.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined a bipartisan majority in the U.S. House of Representatives to pass legislation to help prevent suicide and ensure that every veteran gets the care they need. The Joshua Omvig Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 327) directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to create a comprehensive program to address the growing rate of suicide among veterans returning from combat. The legislation has already passed the Senate and will next be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Suicide Prevention Act is named after Joshua Omvig of Grundy Center, Iowa, a veteran who committed suicide after returning from an 11-month tour of duty in Iraq. “Around one thousand veterans receiving VA care take their own lives each year. That is one thousand veterans too many,” said Larsen. “VA staff do excellent work, but we must take a more comprehensive approach to make sure that every veteran who needs help gets it. We must do more to save the lives of the men and women who have served our country and worked to keep us safe.” According to a study published in March by the American Medical Association's Archive of Internal Medicine, nearly one third of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan who sought care through the VA have been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder or other mental health problems. The study found that the youngest veterans -- those between 18-24 years of age -- appeared to be at greatest risk for emotional trauma following their military service. The Suicide Prevention Act requires that the Veterans' Affairs (VA) Department puts into action a comprehensive plan to prevent suicide among veterans. The bill mandates that all patients at VA medical facilities be screened for suicide risk factors to ensure that every veteran gets the care he or she needs. It also requires that veterans at risk for suicide have access to mental health care 24-hours a day, 7 days a week. The bill mandates that a suicide prevention counselor be designated at each VA medical facility. This counselor would work with local emergency rooms, police departments, mental health organizations and veterans' service organizations as part of their outreach to veterans. The bill also requires the VA to conduct research to identify best practices for preventing suicide among veterans. Finally, the Suicide Prevention Act would provide outreach and education for veterans and their families to help remove the stigma that can be associated with getting help for mental illness, to help military families understand the challenges veterans face in readjusting to civilian life, and to recognize warning signs for mental illness so that family members can help their loved ones get help when they need it. Earlier this year, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the largest increase in VA funding in 77 years – the largest single increase in the history of the Veterans Administration. This historic bill would give the VA the resources they need to serve veterans including many of the 75,000 veterans who call Northwest Washington home. ###
10.18.2007	Washington, D.C. — As the U.S. House of Representatives prepares to vote on an override of President Bush’s veto of legislation to preserve health care coverage for millions of children currently insured by the Children’s Health Insurance Program and extend coverage to millions more who are currently uninsured, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement: "Today, I urge my colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives to make the right choice for kids and overturn President Bush’s veto of bipartisan legislation that would provide health care to thousands of children in Northwest Washington who need it. The President’s decision to deny health care coverage to our children was the wrong choice for our country and the wrong choice for Northwest Washington." NORTHWEST WASHINGTON NUMBERS BY COUNTY: According to estimates from the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services, the President’s veto of The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) could mean that thousands of children in Island, San Juan, Snohomish, Skagit and Whatcom counties won’t get the health care coverage they need: Island County: approximately 338 children may not receive the health care coverage they need. San Juan County: approximately 62 children may not receive the health care coverage they need. Snohomish County: approximately 963 children may not receive the health care coverage they need. Skagit County: approximately 835 children may not receive the health care coverage they need. Whatcom County: approximately 1,257 children may not receive the health care coverage they need. (Numbers estimated based on maximum enrollment numbers; a smaller number of children are likely to actually be enrolled in the program.) ###
10.15.2007	Washington, D.C. — Bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Fred Upton (R-MI) to crack down on the bulk sale of dextromethorphan (DXM) passed the House today by a voice vote. The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2007 (H.R. 970) will help prevent the abuse of DXM -- which has led to deaths in Whatcom county and other parts of the country -- by making it illegal to distribute unfinished DXM to a person or company not registered with the FDA. Larsen’s legislation needs to pass the Senate before it can be signed into law. “In 2005, two teenagers in Whatcom County died after overdosing on unfinished DXM they bought on the Internet,” said Larsen. “The loss of these children is a tragedy that will be forever felt by their families and their community. We cannot continue to allow this dangerous drug to be only a click of the mouse away from our homes and our children. I urge the Senate to act quickly and approve this commonsense measure to protect our kids.” DXM is a non-narcotic cough suppressant used in many over-the-counter cough and cold medicines. While medicines containing DXM are used safely by millions of Americans each year, taken in extremely large quantities DXM produces a hallucinogenic high and can cause brain damage, seizures and death. Studies have shown that teenagers are obtaining unfinished DXM to get high by consuming large amounts of the powder or mixing it with alcohol. Recent research indicates that abuse of DXM has increased sharply in recent years. According to the Partnership for a Drug-Free America, 1 in 11 teenagers have used cough medicines to get high. “Following an investigation into the dextromethorphan deaths of two teenagers, the Sheriff's Office was shocked to find how simple it was to purchase the drug over the Internet and have it shipped into our community from out-of-state,” said Sheriff Bill Elfo, who investigated the DXM overdoses in Whatcom County. “Congressional action was needed to close loopholes in the law. The legislation offered by Representative Rick Larsen will save lives and go to a long way towards combating this problem on a national level. The law enforcement community appreciates Representative Larsen's leadership and diligence on this issue.” “This is a matter of life and death, and we must shatter the myth that it is safe for our kids to get high off of DXM because it is a common ingredient in cough syrup,” said Upton. “As a parent of two teenagers, I am alarmed by growing trend of teens abusing cough syrup and pure DXM to get a high. Our kids are engaging in a game of Russian roulette each time they get high off of DXM, and sooner or later, someone dies. This common sense piece of legislation will put an end to the bulk sale of DXM over the Internet, and keep our kids safe from the dangers of this type of drug abuse.” The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2007 is endorsed by the American Pharmacists Association, Consumer Healthcare Products Association, Food Marketing Institute, National Association of Chain Drug Stores and The Partnership for a Drug Free America. ###
10.11.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has voted in favor of the National Affordable Housing Trust Fund Act of 2007 (H.R. 2895), legislation to create a national affordable housing trust fund to help states and local communities build or preserve 1.5 million houses or apartments over the next 10 years. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday by a vote of 264 to 148. Under the legislation passed by the House, all National Affordable Housing Trust Fund dollars must go to low and moderate-income Americans, with at least 75 percent of trust fund dollars reserved for extremely low-income families. The trust fund will be created without increasing government spending or the federal deficit by using revenue generated by reforms to the Federal Housing Administration, with some funds coming from the investment portfolios of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “Too many families in our community don’t know where they’ll sleep from one night to the next,” said Larsen. “This legislation will increase the availability of affordable housing so more hard-working families have a home to call their own.” In Island, San Juan, Skagit, Snohomish and Whatcom counties, a modest one-bedroom apartment is normally beyond the reach of a full-time worker earning the minimum wage, according to a report by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. And Northwest Washington isn’t alone in facing a dearth of affordable housing – the same report shows that there is not a single city or county in the United States where someone working full time for the mini­mum wage can afford even a modest one-bedroom apartment on their own. Across the country, approximately 750,000 Americans are homeless on any given night. In Washington state alone, more than 50,000 people depend on community shelters, according to the 2002-2003 Emergency Shelter Assistance Program (ESAP) report. ###
10.04.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today in support of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act Expansion and Enforcement Act (H.R. 2740), legislation to hold private contractors in war zones accountable in U.S. courts for any criminal behavior. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 389 to 30.“Private contractors working for the United States should not be above the law. They should not be exempt from prosecution in U.S. courts for crimes they may have committed overseas. The Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act Expansion and Enforcement Act closes a gaping loophole to restore accountability and make it clear that criminal behavior will not be tolerated.”Background:In 2000, Congress passed the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (MEJA), which gave U.S. courts jurisdiction over contractors employed by the Department of Defense in war zones overseas. This left a loophole for contractors working for the State Department and other agencies. The legislation passed by the House today closes this loophole to ensure that all private security contractors employed by the United States can be held accountable in U.S. courts for criminal behavior in war zones overseas. ###
10.03.2007	Washington, D.C. — Today, President Bush vetoed legislation passed by Congress to preserve health care coverage for millions of children currently insured by the Children’s Health Insurance Program and extend coverage to millions more who are currently uninsured – including over 50,000 kids in Washington state. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen released the following statement on the President’s veto: “Today, President Bush vetoed bipartisan legislation that would have provided health care to millions of low-income children who need it. The President’s decision to deny health care coverage to millions of kids was the wrong choice for our country and the wrong choice for Washington state. I will keep working with my colleagues from both parties to build support for this bill and overcome the President’s opposition.” Background: The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for five years and preserves coverage for all 6.6 million children currently covered by CHIP, including over 15,000 children in Washington state. The bill also extends health care coverage to 3.8 million children who are currently uninsured, including over 50,000 children in Washington state. As Congress worked toward reauthorizing CHIP this year, Larsen joined Washington state Democrats to demand a children’s health care funding fix for Washington state. Washington and 10 other states have been penalized for expanding health insurance coverage to children in families with incomes just over the poverty line before the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP) became law in 1997. Since that federal legislation was enacted, Washington state has been unable to spend its full federal CHIP allotment to cover children just over the poverty line. States that didn’t cover these children a decade ago have had no such limitation on the use of federal CHIP funds. The bill vetoed by the President today provides a fair, permanent solution for this inequity.
09.25.2007	
09.24.2007	
09.19.2007	Washington, D.C. — U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the ruling by a European court against Microsoft in an anti-trust case: “The ruling by the European Union’s Court of First Instance affirming the European Commission’s decision against Microsoft sets a troubling precedent. I am concerned that punishing Microsoft will only be the tip of the iceberg and that other U.S. companies may also be penalized for their success in the European market. The European Union should not stifle competition and punish innovation. “Although this is clearly a setback, it is not the end. I am committed to working with the Administration to address these issues and find a way forward with the European Union.” ###
09.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today the House Armed Services Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee held a joint hearing on the status of the war and political developments in Iraq. The committees received testimony from General David Petraeus, Commander, Multi-National Force-Iraq, and Ambassador Ryan Crocker, U.S. Ambassador to Iraq. House Armed Services Committee Member U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement: “After reading the most recent National Intelligence Estimate, the Government Accountability Office report and the Jones Commission report, you can only come to one conclusion: without political reconciliation, sectarian violence in Iraq will continue.” “Because ending sectarian violence is possible only through political reconciliation, the most important testimony we heard today was from Ambassador Crocker. Ambassador Crocker’s testimony was very disappointing and failed to address the fundamental concerns of the American people. According to Crocker’s testimony, the Iraqi government has failed to take advantage of any security progress made possible by the surge of U.S. troops to Iraq. “In the absence of a strong Iraqi central government, Ambassador Crocker described a shift of power to the provinces which seems to be leading toward the slow, de facto partition of Iraq. “Our policy in Iraq is based on achieving a well-trained Iraqi military and a strong, central Iraqi government. We have to ask ourselves, “What happens if we end up with a strong military in Iraq with no central government? How does that benefit our national security interests?” “Regarding today’s testimony from General Petraeus, it’s important to recognize that the limited drawdown of U.S. troops he described by summer of 2008 isn’t news. Without requiring soldiers to serve in Iraq for extended deployments, we simply do not have enough troops to maintain our current presence in Iraq. I urge the President to accept General Petraeus’ recommendation about the drawdown. “Nothing I heard today changed my view that the United States must end our involvement in Iraq’s civil war and re-focus our efforts on fighting terrorists wherever they are, including Iraq.” ###
09.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today voted with a bipartisan majority in the House to approve legislation that would help tens of thousands of Washington state students pay for college at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act (H.R. 2669) would make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, boosting funding available to students by $20 billion over the next five years and cutting interest rates on subsidized student loans in half over the next four years. The legislation – which passed the House today by a vote 292 to 97 -- pays for itself by reducing federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry. The Senate passed the bill earlier today. “It's past time our country made higher education more affordable for students and families,” said Larsen. “The College Cost Reduction and Access Act increases aid to Washington students by $442 million over five years to help more Washington students pay for college without going dangerously into debt. I urge the President to sign this bill into law.” The College Cost Reduction and Access Act would increase the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship by $1,090 over the next five years, reaching $5,400 by 2012. Over 85,000 students in Washington state and almost 6 million students across the country would benefit from this increase. The legislation would help prevent students from drowning in debt by guaranteeing that borrowers will never have to spend more than 15 percent of their yearly discretionary income on loan repayments, and by allowing borrowers facing economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden on students and families, including tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation's public schools and loan forgiveness for college graduates who go into public service professions. ###
09.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the announcement that Georgia-Pacific will be closing their Bellingham tissue mill: “Georgia-Pacific has been part of our community for 44 years. The closure of the Bellingham mill is sad news not only for the people who work there and their families, but for the City of Bellingham and for Whatcom County. I want to send a message to the 210 Georgia-Pacific workers who will lose their jobs: I will do everything I can to help you get back on your feet and back to work.” ###
09.04.2007	September 4, 2007 Washington, D.C. - The House has passed an amendment authored by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen that directs the Small Business Administration’s Office of International Trade to develop an annual plan to help U.S. small businesses export goods and services to the Asia-Pacific Region. Larsen added this provision to the Small Business Administration’s Trade Programs Act of 2007 (H.R. 2992) when it was marked up by the House Small Business Committee in July. The bill passed the House today by voice vote. “China is the number one foreign market for Washington state products,” said Larsen, a member of the House Small Business Committee and co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. “This legislation will direct the Small Business Administration to develop a plan so more small and medium-sized businesses can get a foot in the door in the Asia-Pacific region. Selling more Washington products around the world means more jobs at the business down the street and a stronger economy here at home.”The Asia-Pacific region presents a growing export opportunity for Washington small businesses, and China’s growing middle class represents a huge potential market for Washington products. In 2006, 60% of U.S. exports went to countries in the Asia-Pacific region and U.S. exports to China increased by 24% during the past year. Yet many U.S. small businesses continue to face obstacles in identifying new markets, raising the capital they need to take advantage of these markets and understanding and overcoming barriers to entry such as regulations that vary from country to country. ###
09.04.2007	September 4, 2007 Washington, D.C. - The House Armed Services Committee held a hearing today to hear Comptroller General David Walker’s assessment of the Iraqi Government’s record of performance. Walker is head of the Government Accountability Office (GAO). During the next week, the House Armed Services Committee will hold four hearings examining Iraq policy. House Armed Services Committee member U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today: “Our servicemen and women are working hard in Iraq, and their work is showing some results. The President has tried to downplay the challenges they face. But the obstacles in Iraq aren’t hurdles, they’re high jumps. “According to the latest report from the independent GAO, the Iraqi government has failed to meet 11 of 18 required benchmarks for political and military progress. On the core issues that must be resolved to bring about real political progress, the government of Iraq has met only one of eight benchmarks. “As we assess the current situation in Iraq, let’s not forget that almost all of the benchmarks used by the GAO were proposed by the Iraqi government and endorsed by President Bush himself. “Furthermore, President Bush’s surge of additional U.S. troops in Iraq has failed to slow violence against Iraqi civilians. In fact, the number of Iraqis fleeing violence has actually increased as more Iraqi civilians leave their homes and neighborhoods in search of safety. “To date, the progress reports that Congress has requested -- including this GAO report and the latest National Intelligence Estimate -- have failed to support the Administration’s argument that the surge is working.” ###
08.02.2007	August 2, 2007 Washington, D.C. - House Armed Services Committee Member U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of legislation to improve military readiness and provide adequate time at home for service members and their families. Larsen cosponsored the Ensuring Military Readiness through Stability and Predictability Deployment Policy Act of 2007 (HR 3159), which would mandate minimum rest periods for active duty and reserve members of the Armed Forces between deployments to Operation Iraqi Freedom. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 229 to194. “This bill strengthens our military readiness and supports our military families. The United States is sending men and women to Iraq in violation of the Defense Department’s own standards for rest, training and time at home. The women and men who serve our country in the military deserve better. This bill would help make sure they get the time with their families they need and deserve between deployments to Iraq.” The legislation requires that active duty service members be allowed to spend as much time at home as they spent in the war zone before being deployed again. National Guard and reserve personnel would be allowed three times as much time at home as they spent on their previous tour of duty before they could be sent back to Iraq. ###
08.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives has passed health care legislation that would more than double federal funds available to Washington state to cover uninsured children in families who live just above the poverty level, help make sure Washington seniors on Medicare get the care they need, and provide health care coverage for 11 million children across the country. U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted for the legislation, called the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act (HR 3162), which passed the House tonight by a vote of 225 to 204. “This bill provides health insurance for 11 million kids and delivers a fair fix for Washington state’s children’s health insurance program,” said Larsen. “This Congress has delivered for the American people by investing in veterans’ health care, a higher minimum wage, and help for students struggling to afford school, among other accomplishments. Now we need to get this bill through the Senate so we can deliver health insurance to millions of kids and strengthen Medicare for seniors.” Larsen joined Washington state Democrats in the House and Senate to demand a children’s health care funding fix for Washington state. Washington and 10 other states have been penalized for expanding health insurance coverage to children in families with incomes just over the poverty line before the State Children’s Insurance Plan (SCHIP) became law in 1997. Since that federal legislation was enacted, Washington state has been unable to spend its full federal SCHIP allotment to cover children just over the poverty line. States that didn’t cover these children a decade ago have had no such limitation on the use of federal SCHIP funds. A permanent solution for this inequity was included in the CHAMP Act which passed the House tonight. The CHAMP Act would continue SCHIP coverage for 6 million children while extending health care coverage to 5 million more low-income children. SCHIP was established in 1997, and must be reauthorized by the House and Senate by September 30, 2007. If the program is not reauthorized by September 30, 6 million children nationwide could lose their health care. Larsen also worked with Washington state Democrats to secure a 5 percent Medicare payment bonus for efficient doctors. Doctors practicing in counties in the lowest 5th percentile of Medicare spending would receive a bonus payment for their efficient care. The overall bill also prevents a scheduled 15 percent cut to Medicare physician reimbursements over the next 2 years. Because of low Medicare payments, many seniors in Northwest Washington have struggled to find a doctor who will accept Medicare. By providing increased Medicare payments for efficient doctors, the CHAMP Act will help make sure that Medicare beneficiaries have access to needed medical care close to home. “Many seniors in my district have a tough time finding a doctor who accepts Medicare,” said Larsen. “This legislation will help keep clinic doors open for seniors in Northwest Washington by rewarding efficient doctors with increased payments to make sure seniors can get the care they need.” ###
08.01.2007	August 1, 2007 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group, introduced legislation today to enhance U.S. competitiveness and help U.S. small and medium-sized businesses access the China market. The legislation is part of the bi-partisan “U.S.-China Competitiveness Agenda for 2007” -- four pieces of legislation that aim to expand our diplomatic infrastructure in China, help U.S. small and medium sized businesses succeed in China, boost Chinese language programs in the United States and expand U.S.-China cooperation on energy security and climate change. Larsen, joined by U.S.-China Working Group co-chair Rep. Mark Kirk (R-IL) and working group members Reps. Susan Davis (D-CA) and Steve Israel (D-NY), announced the legislative agenda at a press conference on Capitol Hill today. “China is the number one foreign market for Washington state products,” said Larsen. “We need innovative programs that support our small business exporters and arm them with the tools they need to succeed in China. This legislation will help more small and medium-sized businesses get their foot in the door so they can take full advantage of the China market, which is growing by leaps and bounds each year.” China’s economy is on the rise—and it is rising fast. Already the second largest economy in the world when measured by domestic purchasing power parity, China’s economy grew 11.9% in the second quarter of this year. “China is a booming market for U.S. exports,” said James Morrison, President of the Small Business Exporters Association of the United States (SBEA), “and the 'U.S.-China Market Engagement and Export Promotion Act' helps put that market within reach for smaller American companies that export, or that hope to. SBEA commends the bill's sponsors for their constructive proposals.” China’s booming economy presents a growing export opportunity for Washington state small and medium sized businesses. In 2006, 60% of U.S. exports went to countries in the Asia-Pacific region, and U.S. exports to China increased by 24% during the past year. Washington state exports to China increased by 34% from 2005 to 2006, but many U.S. small businesses face obstacles understanding and navigating the Chinese market. Financial roadblocks, conflicting information, intellectual property rights infringements and cultural differences create unnecessary barriers for American companies. The U.S.-China Market Engagement and Export Promotion Act of 2007, authored by Larsen, will – Help states establish and operate offices in China to promote exports; Create a program establishing China Market Advocate Positions in U.S. Export Assistance Centers around the country; Provide assistance to small businesses for trade missions to China; and Authorize Small Business Administration grants for Chinese business education programs. The U.S.-China Diplomatic Expansion Act of 2007, authored by Kirk, will – Increase funding for public diplomacy with an emphasis on Internet communications; Provide funds to build another consulate and establish 10 American presence posts; Increase funding for State Department student exchange programs; Increase funding for State Department teacher exchange programs; Increase funding for Rule of Law Initiatives; and Increase funding for the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Organization. The United States-China Energy Cooperation Act of 2007, authored by Israel, will – Authorize a grant program to encourage joint American-Chinese research and development and policy education; Fund grants for joint energy and climate change policy education programs and/or joint research, development, or commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology, improved energy efficiency, or renewable energy sources. Entities eligible for grant funding are joint ventures comprised of both Chinese and American private business entities, joint ventures comprised of both Chinese and American academics or joint ventures comprised of Chinese and American federal, state, or local governments. The U.S.-Chinese Language Engagement Act of 2007, authored by Davis, will – Increase Chinese cultural studies and language acquisition for school-aged students of the United States through grants to Local Education Agencies (LEAs); Fund grants to be used for collaborative efforts to support joint ventures with LEAs and institutions of higher education; grants may also be used to fund virtual cultural exchanges with educational institutions in the People’s Republic of China; and Encourage LEAs seeking grants to develop programs that include intensive summer Chinese language instruction, link bilingual Chinese and English speakers with students, begin instruction at an early age, and include Chinese cultural studies. ###
07.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation introduced by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) to create a competitive grant program providing $25 million to help farms in the Puget Sound watershed develop comprehensive conservation strategies to improve water quality, protect wildlife and keep farmland in production. The bill passed the House by voice vote today and must also pass the Senate before the President can sign it into law. “Ag producers in Washington state have an important role to play in protecting the health of Puget Sound – and they are more than willing to do their part,” said Larsen. “This legislation will invest in comprehensive strategies that work so we can protect the health of Puget Sound and keep Washington’s family farms strong for generations to come.” The legislation authorizes the Department of Agriculture to award $5 million in grants per year for five years to develop comprehensive conservation strategies for local agriculture producers. States, local jurisdictions, tribes and non-profits are eligible for these competitive grants to help Washington state agriculture use the best possible practices to improve water quality. Similar projects for comprehensive conservation planning are currently underway in other parts of the country. ###
07.27.2007	July 27, 2007 Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined a majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives today to support a fiscally responsible farm bill that makes a historic investment in Washington state’s specialty crops, invests in conservation and broad-based renewable energy and strengthens nutrition programs that help feed hungry families. The farm bill (HR 2419) passed the House by a vote of 231-191. “For the first time, our federal farm policy makes a serious investment in helping Washington’s specialty crop producers thrive,” said Larsen. “This farm bill will help Washington growers compete with farms down the road and around the world.” Northwest Washington farms would benefit from the $1.6 billion in mandatory funding provided for specialty crops. Past farm bills have neglected specialty crops, which account for almost fifty percent of total cash receipts in Washington state and nationally. Washington is the third-largest producer of specialty crops -- including potatoes, raspberries and nursery products -- in the country. As a major producer of specialty crops, Washington state will benefit from the bill’s increased funding for specialty crop block grants, which provide state agriculture departments with resources to support research, improve food safety and inspection, and enhance the ability of American producers to compete internationally. The farm bill also expands nutrition programs that help feed 35 million low-income American families. It nearly doubles funding for the Emergency Food Assistance Program so that food banks, soup kitchens, and other emergency feeding sites have needed resources. It also expands the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable pilot program -- which has successfully provided children in Whatcom and Skagit County, Washington and elsewhere with nutritious snacks -- to all 50 states. The farm bill is supported by America’s Second Harvest, the nation's largest charitable hunger-relief organization. “It is unacceptable that so many children are hungry here in the United States, the wealthiest and most agriculture-rich nation in the world,” Larsen continued. “This bill expands essential nutrition programs and brings the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable pilot program to every state in the country, delivering nutritious food to Americans in need while supporting local farms.” The farm bill strengthens conservation programs that take environmentally-sensitive land out of farming and encourage environmentally-friendly practices on working farmland. The bill provides an additional $4.3 billion to preserve farm and ranchland, improve water quality and quantity, and enhance soil conservation, air quality, and wildlife habitat on working lands. It also makes a historic investment in broad-based renewable energy programs. The bill provides $2 billion in loan guarantees for the development of refineries that process renewable fuels and $1.5 billion for production incentives for ethanol and biodiesel made from agricultural, forest, and waste plant materials – some of which can be converted to fuel more efficiently than corn-based ethanol. To encourage more locally-produced food to be sold at farmers markets, roadside stands and community-supported agriculture operations, the farm bill includes $35 million for competitive grants through the Farmer’s Market Promotion Program. Washington state farm organizations including the Washington State Red Raspberry Commission, Washington State Potato Commission, Washington Farm Bureau, Washington State Dairy Federation and Northwest Horticulture Council have endorsed the bill. ###
07.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that he has secured over $1 million to help Washington state law enforcement fight crime and combat the meth epidemic. The Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008 includes Larsen appropriations for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative, the Bellingham Police Department, the Skagit County Drug Enforcement Unit and the Sultan Police Department. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 281-142. The House and Senate must agree on a final version before the President can sign it into law. “As co-chair of the House Meth Caucus, I have seen first-hand the devastating impact of meth addiction on our families and communities in Northwest Washington,” said Larsen. “It is critical that we give local communities and law enforcement the tools they need to fight this epidemic and keep us safe.” Larsen secured the following funding for Washington state in the bill, HR 3093: $950,000 for the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative: With federal support, the Washington State Methamphetamine Initiative has had a profound impact on meth abuse and crime in Washington state and set an example for the rest of the nation. This funding would help the Initiative continue their efforts to help investigate meth labs and provide intelligence and forensic support, family-based treatment, and assistance to public health and environmental agencies. It would also help the Initiative target new threats, including the growth in meth trafficking from super labs in Mexico, Canada and other countries. $200,000 for the Bellingham Police Department: The Bellingham Police Department’s current Emergency Response Tactical Operations Center vehicle (TOC) is over thirty-years-old and cannot transport the department’s response team and needed equipment at the same time. This funding would help the Bellingham Police Department purchase a new vehicle so they can respond to emergencies more efficiently. It would also help them purchase new technology equipment to record crimes and produce forensically accurate evidence. $50,000 for the Sultan Police Department Technology Improvement Program: This funding would help the City of Sultan’s Police Department move forward with a technology improvement program to better protect the community. Sultan is situated on U.S. Highway 2 which brings 19,000 vehicles and large semi-trucks through the city each day. In 2005 alone, the department responded to 14,998 dispatched events and provided 1,200 backup assists to the Snohomish County Sheriff. Sultan has also seen a significant increase in property crime rates, adding to the need for improved technology. $50,000 for the Skagit County, Washington Drug Enforcement Unit:Estimates show that up to 60% of crime in Skagit County is methamphetamine-related. This funding would provide the unit with needed tools to bust meth labs and drug trafficking rings. These tools would include digital cameras for use in drug investigations and a new server to store video surveillance from investigations. The House funding bill also includes the following important provisions: COPS program: This bill rejects the President’s proposal to slash the COPS program by 94 percent and instead provides $725 million, $183 million above Fiscal Year 2007 levels. This includes $100 million for the COPS hiring program, $175 million for expanding DNA analysis and forensic crime lab capacity and $85 million for beefing up enforcement in “meth hot spots,” places where meth is a serious problem. Byrne Justice Assistance Grants: The President’s budget proposed eliminating Byrne Justice Assistance Grants. The bill rejects this elimination and instead provides $600 million for these grants, which provide local jurisdictions with resources for initiatives as diverse as law enforcement, prevention and education, and drug treatment. Drug courts: This bill restores $40 million in funding for the successful Drug Courts Discretionary Grant Program that was zeroed out in the President’s proposed budget. Larsen fought to restore this funding to help prevent meth addicts and others from re-offending. In Washington state, Snohomish County's drug court has a 94 percent success rate, saving lives and saving taxpayers the cost of further incarcerations. ###
07.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Meth Caucus Co-Chair U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined colleagues in the House and Senate today to propose bipartisan legislation to address meth mouth, a disease caused by methamphetamine abuse that destroys the teeth of meth addicts, causing permanent damage for users and imposing high costs for treatment on communities in Washington state and across the country. “Meth is a chemical cocktail that literally rots away your teeth,” said Larsen. “We need to educate young people about what meth does to your body. We need to stop kids from doing meth the first time so they don’t become addicts.” Larsen and his House colleagues Reps. Brian Baird (WA-03), Mike Ross (AK-04) and John Sullivan (R-OK) introduced the Meth Mouth Correctional Costs and Reentry Support Act and the Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act today. They were joined at a Capitol Hill press conference by Senator Max Baucus (MT), who will be introducing similar legislation in the Senate in the coming days. According to the American Dental Association, jail and prison dental costs have risen sharply as the methamphetamine epidemic has become more widespread. Almost 30 percent of jail inmates and 25 percent of state prisoners have a history of methamphetamine use. Few studies have been published about meth mouth or the oral health needs of inmates generally. But the Washington State Department of Corrections estimates that $5 million of its $12 million annual inmate dental budget goes toward patients with meth mouth. Dr. Pat Murphy, dentist for Washington State Reformatory and the Special Offenders Unit in Monroe, Washington, estimates that he has seen approximately 2,000 cases of meth mouth in Washington state patients. “I've seen patients as young as 18 and 19 years old whose teeth have been destroyed by methamphetamine use,” said Murphy. “All we can do for them is remove all their teeth and put in dentures. Education is the only way to fight this problem. If kids could see what I see every day in my clinic, no one would do meth.” Dental problems are common among drug users. Many do not care for their teeth regularly and most do not see a dentist often. But methamphetamine takes a unique and horrific toll on the mouths of those who use it. The Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act would — Make grants available for educating 12 to 17 year-olds about meth mouth (with an eye on preventing first-time methamphetamine use) Expand and intensify the Department of Health and Human Services’ clinical, health services, and public health research on associations between substance use disorders, oral health, and the provision of dental care Authorize a study to determine whether, how, and to what degree methamphetamine use affects demand for (and provision of) dental care Promote a series of continuing education activities for dentists to learn about substance use disorders and their relationship to oral health and the provision of dental care The Meth Mouth Correctional Costs and Reentry Support Act would — Expand and intensify the Justice Department’s research on the oral health status of jail and prison inmates and the provision of dental care in correctional facilities Authorize a study to determine whether, how, and to what degree methamphetamine use affects demand for (and provision of) dental care in correctional facilities Make interim grants available to revitalize correctional dental programs that have been suddenly and disproportionately taxed by inmate meth mouth Direct the Attorney General to ensure that oral health and dental care are made part of the Justice Department’s many prisoner reentry initiatives ###
07.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that he has secured over $1 million for projects in Skagit and Snohomish counties in a House funding bill. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008 passed the House late last night by a vote of 268-153. The House and Senate must agree on a final version of the bill before the President can sign it into law. The House bill includes the following funding for Northwest Washington: $150,000 for Everett Senior Activity CenterThe Senior Activity Center in Everett, Washington provides opportunities for continued learning, social interaction, meals, and medical services for people over 55 years of age. In recent years, the Everett Senior Activity Center has become more popular and currently serves an average of 5,100 seniors a month. This funding would be used to build an elevator to make the facility more accessible and to expand the multipurpose room to accommodate more seniors. $150,000 for Five Replacement Buses for Skagit TransitDramatic growth in Skagit County has outpaced Skagit Transit’s ability to purchase updated vehicles and keep up with standard maintenance. Skagit Transit’s current fleet includes a number of over-utilized older buses traveling over rough roadways resulting in excessive wear and tear. The maintenance and repair needs have placed significant strain on Skagit Transit and buses are becoming unreliable. This funding will help purchase five replacement buses for Skagit Transit. $750,000 for Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal RedevelopmentThe Mukilteo Multimodal Terminal Redevelopment will help reduce congestion through Mukilteo, Washington and on State Route 525. The project includes a new passenger terminal building with overhead loading, pedestrian and bicycle holding areas, two ferry slips to allow for the expansion of a three-boat schedule, commuter rail pedestrian connections, a bus platform for local and express buses, a park and ride lot and an expanded vehicle holding area for 260-300 vehicles. Redevelopment will increase seamless links to bus, rail and non-motorized modes of transportation and will help reduce congestion and improve local air quality. ###
07.20.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced that he has secured $125,000 to help Bellingham Technical College train energy workers for family wage jobs in Northwest Washington. The funding was included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008, which passed the House on Thursday by a vote of 276 to 140. The House and Senate must agree on a final version of the bill before the President can sign it into law. “These funds would help Bellingham Technical College expand their programs preparing Whatcom County residents for high-skill, family wage jobs in our region,” said Larsen. “I am committed to worker training efforts that keep good jobs right here in Northwest Washington.” The funding would help Bellingham Technical College’s Alternative Energy and Process Technology Workforce Development Project educate more students, acquire hands-on teaching tools and modernize its curriculum. Funds would be used for project management and design, software, teaching aids and equipment. The Northwest region is home to four large petroleum refineries and four power co-generation plants. With more than 50 percent of the workforce in these facilities projected to retire over the next 5-10 years, highly-skilled workers will be in demand for family wage jobs. ###
07.20.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the news that the House Agriculture Committee has passed a farm bill (HR 2419) providing $1.6 billion in mandatory funding for specialty crops, an unprecedented investment in fruit and vegetable growers that would benefit farms across Northwest Washington. A vote on the House floor is expected before the August recess. “The 2007 Farm Bill passed by the Ag Committee is a huge step in the right direction for Washington's specialty crop producers,” said Larsen. “This bill makes an unprecedented investment in specialty crops. Through increased research, trade promotion, pest and disease prevention and other critical investments, Washington fruit and vegetable growers would be better equipped to compete with farms down the road and around the world.” Washington’s specialty crops include potatoes, raspberries and nursery products. Washington is the third-largest producer of specialty crops in the country. Specialty crops make up almost fifty percent of total cash receipts in Washington state and nationally. In March, Larsen introduced the EAT (Equitable Agriculture Today) for a Healthy America Act with a bipartisan group of his colleagues. The bill aimed to support specialty crop growers by increasing market access, encouraging and facilitating consumption of nutritious agricultural products, expanding funding for research programs and increasing opportunities for family farmers in conservation programs. It was intended as a “marker” to be included in 2007 the farm bill. “I’m thrilled that the farm bill includes many important provisions from the EAT Healthy America Act to help Washington fruit and vegetable growers stay competitive,” Larsen continued. Key provisions in the farm bill passed by the House Ag Committee include: Investing $1.6 in specialty crops funding including research, trade promotion, pest and disease prevention, nutrition and other critical investments Expanding the USDA Snack Program, which helps schools provide healthy snacks to students during after-school activities to all 50 states, and continuing the DOD Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program, which provides a variety of fresh produce to schools Strengthening the food stamp program by reforming benefit rules to improve coverage of food costs and expand access to the program with additional funding support Investing significant new resources in popular conservation programs, including the Conservation Reserve Program, Environmental Quality Incentive Program, Farm and Ranchland Protection Program, and many others Fighting the meth epidemic by rewarding farmers for including additives in their fertilizer tanks that destroy a byproduct of the fertilizer process used to make crystal meth This spring and summer, Larsen held a series of meetings with Northwest Washington farmers to discuss the 2007 Farm Bill and the need for more resources for specialty crop farmers. At meetings with Snohomish and Skagit county farmers, Larsen was joined by Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), a key advocate for specialty crops in the 2007 Farm Bill and co-lead of the EAT Healthy America Act. As the farm bill moves toward passage, Larsen will keep working to make sure that the needs of Northwest Washington growers are heard, and that key investments specialty crops are included in the final bill. ###
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that he has secured $275,000 in a House funding bill to help Skagit Valley Hospital Cancer Care Center purchase cutting-edge equipment to treat brain cancer. The funding was included in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008, which passed the House by a vote of 276 to140. The House and Senate must agree on a final version of the bill before the President can sign it into law. This funding will help Skagit Valley Hospital purchase equipment to perform stereotactic radiosurgery, a highly precise form of radiation therapy used primarily to treat tumors and other abnormalities of the brain. It is a non-surgical procedure that uses x-rays to treat certain types of tumors, inoperable lesions and is also used as a post-operative treatment to eliminate any leftover tumor tissue. Patients in Northwest Washington currently travel to Seattle to receive this treatment. “Skagit Valley patients and families travel hours each way to get cutting-edge cancer treatment,” said Larsen. “This funding would bring the care they need closer to home.” The newly-opened Skagit Valley Hospital Regional Cancer Care Center provides critical medical services to Northwest Washington’s five counties. Over 600 Skagit Valley residents are diagnosed with cancer annually. Since 2000, the number of cancer patients seeking treatment at Skagit Valley Hospital has increased by 15 percent. “We sincerely appreciate Congressman Larsen’s leadership,” said Skagit Valley Hospital CEO Gregg Davidson. “This funding really helps us bring the best cancer treatments to patients who desperately need it and is yet another example of the strong investment our community has made in bringing world-class healthcare to Mount Vernon and Skagit County.” ###
07.19.2007	Washington, D.C. - The House Small Business Committee has included an amendment authored by U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) in the Small Business Administration (SBA) Trade Policy Act that would help U.S. small businesses overcome obstacles and successfully export their goods and services to the Asia Pacific Region. The Larsen amendment directs the SBA’s Office of International Trade to develop a strategy to increase small business export opportunities to the Asia-Pacific Region. The SBA Trade Policy Act passed committee today and floor action is expected soon. “China is the number one foreign market for Washington state products,” said Larsen. “We need to help more small businesses get their foot in the door so they can take full advantage of the China market, which is growing by leaps and bounds each year.” The Asia-Pacific region presents a growing export opportunity for Washington small businesses, and China’s growing middle class is a huge potential market for Washington products. In 2006, 60% of U.S. exports went to countries in the Asia-Pacific region, and U.S. exports to China increased by 24% during the past year. Washington state exports to China increased by 34% from 2005 -2006, but many U.S. small businesses face obstacles understanding and navigating the Chinese market. In June, Larsen held a town hall meeting in Everett, Washington focused on helping local small businesses access the China market. The event was one of 29 related forums sponsored by the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations held nationwide. “I thank Chairwomen Velázquez for taking the lead on this important legislation to help U.S. small businesses market their products around the world and specifically to the Asia-Pacific region, our most important market.” Larsen is a member of the Small Business Committee and the co-chair of the U.S.-China Working Group. Together with colleagues in the House and Senate, he will be introducing a package of legislation in the coming weeks which aims to improve engagement with China and help strengthen U.S. competitiveness abroad. ###
07.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $500,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit River General Investigation (GI) in the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill for the next fiscal year. After the President eliminated GI funding from his proposed budget, Larsen fought to restore needed funds for this important project. “Today we are one step closer to completing the GI study and protecting Skagit families, farms and businesses from future floods,” Larsen said. “I will keep fighting for Skagit Valley until we get the job done.” The Skagit River General Investigation will identify Skagit River flood problems and opportunities to relieve flooding, reduce flood damage, and develop a flood damage reduction plan. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) has secured funding for Skagit River General Investigation in the Senate committee version of the funding bill, which awaits passage in the Senate. The House and Senate must agree on final legislation before the President can sign it into law. ###
07.13.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the Snohomish County Public Utility District (PUD)’s successful settlement with Enron. Under the settlement, Snohomish PUD will pay $18 million to Enron creditors to settle a claim of about $180 million that Enron has sought from the PUD.“My constituents have paid dearly for Enron’s deplorable actions. This wise decision by the Snohomish County PUD brings closure and protects Snohomish County ratepayers from being further penalized for Enron’s misdeeds.”###
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that he has secured $500,000 for the Army Corps of Engineers to continue the Skagit River General Investigation (GI) in the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill for the next fiscal year. Larsen fought to restore funding for the project which was eliminated in the President’s proposed budget. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) has secured funding for Skagit River General Investigation in the Senate’s version of the funding bill, and the House and Senate must agree on a final version before the President can sign it into law. Larsen will keep fighting to make sure that the final appropriations bill includes needed funding for this important project. “Completing the Skagit River General Investigation is essential to helping prevent future floods that could take a terrible toll on families, farms and businesses in the Skagit River delta,” Larsen said. “We need this funding to help get the job done.” The Skagit River General Investigation will identify Skagit River flood problems and opportunities to relieve flooding, reduce flood damage, and develop a flood damage reduction plan. ###
07.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the need for a new direction in Iraq following the Administration’s release of the Iraq interim assessment report required by Congress. Later today, Larsen will vote in favor of the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act (H.R. 2956). "The interim report from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker shows mixed progress. But on two of the most important benchmarks –political reconciliation and the quality and efforts of the Iraqi security forces – progress has been wholly unsatisfactory. “Recent reports outlining the resurgence of al-Qaida point to the failure of President Bush’s war policy despite nearly six years of Administration efforts. “Today’s interim report shows that despite four and a half years of Administration efforts, Iraqis still aren’t taking responsibility for their own future. “Furthermore, leaked reports on the pending National Intelligence Estimate show once again that the Administration’s focus on Iraq as the central front in our fight against terrorists is misplaced. “The United States needs to end our military involvement in Iraq’s civil war and re-focus our efforts on killing terrorists wherever they are, including Iraq. “We need to move forward with responsible redeployment, which would focus U.S. military efforts on missions such as fighting al-Qaida, training Iraqi security forces and protecting Iraq’s borders. “What we’re doing in Iraq is interfering with fighting terrorists and interfering with the readiness of our military.” ###
07.11.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today voted to approve legislation to make the single largest investment in college financial aid since the 1944 GI Bill, helping millions of students pay for college at no new cost to U.S. taxpayers. The College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (H.R. 2669), which passed the House passed by a vote of 273-149, would boost college financial aid by approximately $18 billion over the next five years. The legislation pays for itself by reducing federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $19 billion. The Senate is expected to vote on similar legislation this month. “Washington students and families have been staggering under the enormous weight of tuition costs and loan repayments,” said Larsen. “This bill would finally give them the relief they need, increasing aid to Washington students by $234 million over five years to help more Washingtonians afford a college education without going dangerously into debt.” Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship would increase by $500 over the next five years. When combined with other Pell scholarship increases passed or proposed by Congress this year, the maximum Pell Grant would reach $4,900 in 2008 and $5,200 in 2011, up from $4,050 in 2006. About 6 million low and middle-income students would benefit from this increase, including 97,965 students in Washington state. The legislation would cut interest rates in half on need-based student loans, reducing the cost of those loans for millions of student borrowers. The College Cost Reduction Act would cut interest rates from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent in equal steps over the next five years. Once fully phased-in, this would save the typical student borrower $4,400 over the life of the loan. About 6.8 million students take out need-based loans each year, including 47,631 students in Washington state alone. The College Cost Reduction Act includes a number of other provisions that would ease the financial burden on students and families, including: Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in the nation’s public schoolsLoan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professionsIncreased federal loan limits so that students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans ###
07.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has passed a bill reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the next four years. U.S. Representative Brian Baird (WA-03) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), together with their Committee colleagues, rejected the Bush Administration’s proposal to require new user fees and triple the fuel taxes paid by general aviation aircraft operators. Both representatives were pleased that the Committee passed a reauthorization bill that did not include these cost increases. “I have met with aviation stakeholders across my district and heard their concerns about the Administration’s proposed user fees and 300% gas tax hike,” said Larsen. “This bill ensures that recreational pilots won’t be grounded by exorbitant costs.” “Applying special fees to those who file flight plans or check on weather conditions is an unnecessary, increased cost for general aviation pilots, and also creates potential safety risks,” said Baird. “I am pleased we were able to defeat the Administration’s proposal and put in place a reasonable, responsible and affordable alternative.” Baird and Larsen will continue working to keep flying affordable for Washington state aviation. ###
07.03.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on President Bush decision to commute I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby’s prison sentence: “Once again, the President has rejected accountability for the actions of his Administration. Mr. Libby was convicted of lying to authorities and obstructing an investigation into the public disclosure of a CIA operative’s identity. His actions were a serious violation of the public trust, and serious actions should have serious consequences. “The President’s decision to set aside Mr. Libby’s sentence – which had been determined and upheld by a court of law -- sends the message that the Bush White House is above the law. But this President and his Administration are not above the law, and together with my colleagues I will keep working to hold them accountable and provide the oversight the American people have demanded.” ###
06.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has secured $231,000 in a House funding bill so the Northwest Agriculture Business Center (NWABC) can further its work helping Northwest Washington farms thrive. This funding would be used to create a technological network connecting producers, retailers and distributors so local farmers can get their products to market more efficiently. The funding was included in the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008, which passed the House by a vote of 240 to 179. The House and Senate must agree on a final version of the bill before the president can sign it into law. “This funding will help family farms succeed,” said Linda Neunzig, Owner of Ninety Farms in Snohomish County. “Producing the highest quality products isn’t enough to make a farm successful. Connecting locally grown food with local restaurants and businesses is a key part of the equation.” "Northwest Washington produces some of the finest fruits, vegetables and dairy products in the world,” said Larsen. “The Northwest Agriculture Business Center plays a key role in building partnerships and helping producers develop new business models so they can compete with farms down the road and around the world.” Farms in Snohomish, Skagit, Whatcom, San Juan and Island counties have faced challenges due to rising production costs and the increasing pressure of urban growth on existing farmland. The NWABC was formed in 2006 to help address these challenges and improve the profitability of agriculture by offering hands-on business planning assistance for Northwest Washington growers. Since the NWABC was formed in 2006, it has worked with hundreds of local farmers through workshops, meetings and individual client services. “There is a tremendous surge in consumer demand for safe, nutritious food that is produced locally,” said David Bauermeister, Executive Director of the Northwest Agriculture Business Center. “This funding for the Northwest Agriculture Business Center will be used to create a network of people, products and facilities for bringing the farm to market and increasing the profitability of these farms.” ###
06.27.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives has approved $500,000 to protect an additional 35 acres at the heart of Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve on Whidbey Island. The funding was included in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2008, which passed the House today by a vote of 272 to 155. It will be used to acquire an easement on land surrounding the 150-year-old Ferry House at Ebey’s Landing, a project Larsen has worked to support for over two years. Senator Murray included funding for the easement in the Senate’s Interior appropriations bill, which awaits a final vote in the Senate. “This funding will help preserve land at the heart of Ebey’s Landing, one of Washington state’s natural and historic treasures,” said Larsen. “I applaud Senator Murray, Representative Dicks, and the great team of local residents and leaders for their work to protect this unique community for generations to come.” Ebey’s Landing National Historical Reserve was set aside by Congress in 1978 to protect the “cultural landscape” of Penn Cove. The reserve is a unique part of the National Park system: most of the protected land is privately owned and protected by easements, and historic land use continues in the present day. Prairie soils are farmed, forests harvested, and historic buildings continue to be used as homes and businesses. “This legislation is an excellent example of how local citizens and our elected leaders can work together to protect our nation's family farming heritage and sustain a culture of stewardship,” said Mark Preiss, Reserve Manager for Ebey's Landing National Historical Reserve, “Thanks to Congressman Larsen for his leadership in working to secure this funding for Ebey's Landing.” ###
06.27.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today to introduce bi-partisan and bi-cameral legislation to provide targeted assistance for Washington state wheat farmers. The Wheat Counter-Cyclical Payments Enhancement Act, introduced and supported by the three legislators, requires the Secretary of Agriculture to determine counter-cyclical payments for wheat by class instead of national averages. With the enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill, the Secretary of Agriculture changed marketing loan rates for wheat to be determined by class. Unfortunately, counter-cyclical payments weren't structured this way, leaving many Washington wheat growers out of the intended safety net during times of low prices. The Wheat Counter-Cyclical Payments Enhancement Act corrects this injustice and ensures fairness for all wheat growers. "We need a policy that reflects the realities of the marketplace and ensures that Washington's wheat farmers get the help they need when they need it most," said Congressman Larsen. "This common sense change will create a real safety net to help Washington wheat growers stay in business and keep producing the food our country needs in good times and bad." "Washington state wheat growers have suffered through drought, failed food aid policies and the high cost of fertilizer. They shouldn't be falling through the loopholes of a safety net intended to help them," Senator Murray said. "I am proud to have worked with my delegation colleagues to fix this broken system and give our wheat growers the resources they need to pursue their livelihoods and continue to provide for Washington state and the world." "Our farm policy must allow our farmers to succeed and unfortunately the current counter-cyclical program is failing our soft white wheat growers in Eastern Washington," said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. "We need to enact effective counter-cyclical reform to improve the intended safety net for wheat growers and target assistance to those who need it the most, when they need it the most. I thank my colleagues for working with me on behalf of Eastern Washington wheat growers to correct this imbalance." "We are very excited that this bipartisan legislation is being introduced today. We remain concerned that farmers are not receiving the intended benefits of these safety net programs, and we are pleased that our elected officials are working hard to rectify this problem," said Jim White, President of the Washington Association of Wheat Growers. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Representative Doc Hastings (WA-04) are cosponsors of the bill. # # #
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) today applauded House passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill for 2008 (H.R. 2642) which provides the largest single increase in the VA budget in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration. The bill honors veterans and their families by increasing the VA budget by $6.7 billion above Fiscal Year 2007 funding, $3.8 billion above the President's request for Fiscal Year 2008. It also increases the VA's maintenance and repair budget to prevent the conditions uncovered at Walter Reed and other medical facilities from occurring in the VA system. Larsen released the following statement on today’s vote: “We can’t take a ‘nickel-and-dime’ approach to veterans’ care. This bill gives the VA resources they need to continue providing essential services to veterans across the country, including many of the 75,000 veterans who call Northwest Washington home. One of my top goals in Congress is to bring veterans’ health care and services closer to veterans, and this legislation is a big step in the right direction.” ###
06.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today to pass the Homeland Security Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2008 (H.R. 2638) which includes a provision to delay the next round of Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) passport requirements until June 2009, seventeen months later than the Department of Homeland Security had planned. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 268 to 150, also withholds $100 million from WHTI implementation pending a report on the results of state pilot programs and additional milestones for progress. Similar legislation passed the Senate on Thursday, and the next step is a House-Senate conference committee to agree on a final bill. “The recent passport debacle is proof positive that the Departments of Homeland Security and State don’t have their acts together when it comes to implementing WHTI,” Larsen continued. “This bill sends a strong message that they need to get this done right.” Since January 2007, U.S. citizens traveling by air to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda have been required to present passports due to the first round of WHTI requirements. As a result, the Seattle Passport Agency alone reports that they have received over 400,000 requests for passports since the beginning of the year. Last week, in light of record-breaking demand, the U.S. Departments of State and Homeland Security announced that travelers flying to these destinations who have applied for but not yet received a passport will be able to enter and leave the United States without one through September 30, 2007. “Hundreds of constituents have contacted my office after struggling to get a passport in time for summer travel, and we’ve done our best to help them,” said Larsen. “Northern border communities can’t afford these kinds of problems as we move forward with WHTI implementation. The Bush administration needs to make sure that they have a plan in place that strengthens our security and protects the cross-border commerce that is vital to our economy.” A member of the Northern Border Caucus, Larsen has met with the Departments of Homeland Security and State to voice his concerns over the potential economic loss a poorly implemented program could cause. ###
06.14.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) joined U.S. Representatives Patrick Kennedy (RI-01) and Jim Ramstad (MN-03), actor and drug treatment advocate Martin Sheen, former national drug czar General Barry McCaffrey, Snohomish County Superior Court Judge George Bowden and leaders of the National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP) for a press conference today urging Congress to restore $40 million in funding for the successful Drug Courts Discretionary Grant Program that was zeroed out in the Bush Administration's proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2008. "Drug courts work," said Larsen, co-chair of the House Methamphetamine Caucus. "I urge my colleagues to restore funding for drug courts and invest in a strategy that works for our communities." Drug courts are widely recognized as the most effective solution for reducing crime and recidivism among drug-addicted offenders in the criminal justice system at a fraction of the cost of standard incarceration. Drug courts cost less than $5,000 for one year of treatment with low recidivism compared to $25,000 to $45,000 to incarcerate an addict who typically is rearrested within 90 days. In Washington state, Snohomish County's drug court has a 94 percent success rate. Of the 257 people have graduated from Snohomish County's drug court to date, only 17 individuals have been arrested for committing new crimes. Drug courts have also been recognized as an effective weapon against the methamphetamine epidemic. In June 2005, the Justice Department released a report confirming that drug courts are a critical part of our nation's strategy on methamphetamine. "Meth is a powerful drug, and meth addiction can be powerful to beat," Larsen continued. "But when drug courts intervene, crimes are prevented, families reunited, addictions overcome, and lives saved." A drug court blends the oversight of a court with the therapeutic capabilities of drug treatment. The program includes comprehensive supervision, drug testing, treatment services and immediate sanctions and incentives. Drug court programs bring the full weight of all interveners (judges, prosecutors, defense counsel, substance abuse treatment specialists, probation officers, law enforcement and correctional personnel, educational and vocational experts, mental health workers and many others) to bear, forcing the offender to deal with his or her substance abuse problem. "We know that drug courts cut crime, save money, restore communities and heal families," said Jennifer Columbel, Public Policy Director of NADCP. "We also know that a $40 million federal budget this year will help us expand our reach of these lifesaving programs." On Monday, NADCP scored a preliminary victory in what is likely to be a long road toward this goal when the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science marked up the DOJ funding bill and allocated $40 million for the Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program. # # #
06.12.2007	Washington, D.C. - The House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation held a hearing today to receive a 120-day update from Commandant of the United States Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen on the steps he has taken to get the Coast Guard’s $24 billion Deepwater program back on course. Since Allen last testified before the Subcommittee in January, Subcommittee member U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) has called for answers on how the Coast Guard plans to fix the troubled Deepwater program, which aims to replace or modernize approximately 90 ships and 200 aircraft used in securing our shores. Larsen released the following statement on today’s hearing: “I share the goal that the Coast Guard's long-term recapitalization plan, Deepwater, is critical to the security of the United States. It still seems, however, to be in critical care. “The Coast Guard will soon activate a directorate that will have responsibility for acquisition. This is a major positive step. However, the Coast Guard currently lacks the number of acquisition professionals necessary to handle major acquisitions and has yet to demonstrate that they have an effective strategy to fill these vital roles. “Second, numerous reports and testimony indicate problems with the testing and certification of the secured communication components of Deepwater. The Coast Guard doesn't address this problem in today’s testimony except to say it isn't a problem. We cannot and will not accept a "he said, he said" debate regarding these important national security elements of the Deepwater program.” ###
06.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of legislation to advance life-saving research by greatly expanding the number of embryonic stem cell lines available for use in federally-funded studies. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 (S. 5) which passed the House today by a vote of 247 to 176, was approved by the Senate last month with broad, bipartisan support. “This bill is about saving lives,” said Larsen. “Stem cell research has already led to groundbreaking scientific advancements and holds tremendous promise for millions suffering from Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, diabetes, and other serious diseases. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act is critical to continuing our progress. We cannot handcuff scientists and close the door to hope for millions of Americans waiting for a cure. I urge the President to sign this live-saving bill.” The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act is identical to legislation passed by the House in January except that today’s bill includes a provision authorizing additional research on stem cells not derived from human embryos. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act only authorizes funding for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. ###
06.06.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House floor last night in recognition of the sixth-annual national Hunger Awareness Day. Below are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “I rise today in recognition of Hunger Awareness Day. Each day, millions of our fellow Americans will go to bed hungry. “In my home state of Washington, around 95,000 families suffer from hunger. Each day, approximately three hundred thousand families in Washington are forced to choose between putting food on the table and paying their bills. Worst of all, 39% of those served by Washington’s largest hunger relief agency are children. “In the wealthiest and most agriculture-rich nation in the world this is simply unacceptable. As Americans, we all must do our part to make sure that everyone in our communities, young and old, gets enough to eat. “In my district, organizations like the Boys and Girls Club of Monroe, Washington are using today to hold food drives and benefit dinners to support local food banks. Many organizations across the state and nation are doing their part to fight the hunger epidemic. We need to match their efforts in Congress. “As Congress works to reauthorize the Farm Bill this year, we need to make sure that federal anti-hunger programs and emergency food assistance programs get the resources they need. “I want to thank our local leaders in Washington state and across the country for their work fighting hunger, and I call on my colleagues in Congress to join their efforts.”###
06.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of H. Res. 451 which requires the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to initiate an investigation within 30 days if any Member of the House of Representatives in indicted. If the Committee does not empanel an investigative subcommittee, they are required to submit a report to the House explaining why they have declined to do so. Larsen also voted today in favor of H. Res. 452 which directs the House Ethics Committee to investigate alleged illegal conduct and violation of House rules by Representative William J. Jefferson. Larsen released the following statement: “Tonight, I voted to ensure that any time a Member of Congress is indicted, the House takes prompt action in response. This is a common sense step to ensure that we, as Members of Congress, are held to the highest ethical standards. Under Democratic leadership, this Congress is committed to safeguarding the integrity of the institution and making sure that Members of Congress are held accountable for their actions.” ###
05.24.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on the Iraq supplemental funding bill: “The American people have been pushed to the brink of exhaustion by the war in Iraq. I hear from constituents every day who are fed up with President Bush’s policies. I share their frustration. More than four years after the President declared “mission accomplished”, our military men and women are still in the line of fire trying to keep a lid on the Iraqi civil war. “I believe that the United States needs to end our military involvement in Iraq’s civil war and re-focus our efforts on fighting and killing terrorists around the world. The President must be held accountable for his own military and political benchmarks. If the President does not meet those benchmarks, we must begin the unconditional partial withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq. “During the last election, Democrats told the American people that we would fight for a new direction in Iraq. That is exactly what we have done. “Earlier this month, House Democrats attempted to use the President’s funding request to change our direction, end our involvement in Iraq’s civil war and re-focus our efforts on fighting and killing terrorists. We passed the Iraq Accountability Act, which could just as easily been called the “President Bush Accountability Act”. The President vetoed that bill. And because Democrats do not have a two-thirds majority in Congress, we failed to override the President’s veto. “Next, House Democrats sent another proposal to the President to fully fund our troops for a limited amount of time, hold the President accountable for his policies and provide a new direction. But this second Iraq Accountability Act failed to pass the Senate. “The Democratic leadership in Congress has met with the Bush Administration repeatedly to try to find a compromise with accountability. But the President has threatened to veto any bill that holds him accountable for his own benchmarks for progress. “The Senate has approved a plan that includes weaker benchmarks for progress than the ones passed by the House. These benchmarks are not as strong as the ones I would have chosen. But they are a step in the right direction. “Today, I voted to pass an emergency supplemental bill that includes the benchmarks approved by the Senate. This bill is not perfect. But it does not give the President a blank check. It requires that the President report to Congress on his progress in Iraq so Congress can continue holding him accountable. “Make no mistake: this is only the beginning of our work holding the President accountable.”###
05.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - House Armed Services Committee Member U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) applauded the passage of H.R. 1585, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which passed the House today by a vote of 397 to 27. The bill increases military pay, strengthens military readiness and supports our troops with needed training and equipment, among other provisions. In total, it authorizes $503.8 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy (DoE), as well as $141.8 billion to support ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The National Defense Authorization Act passed out of the Armed Services Committee last week. Larsen released the following statement today: “As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am working to meet the needs of the men and women in our military. This bill sends them a strong message of support by authorizing a 3.5 % across-the-board pay raise for U.S. military personnel. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration has sent a different message by calling our military pay raise ‘unnecessary’ and threatening a veto. “Today, almost all of our active-duty combat units at home and all of our guard units are at the lowest level of readiness. The United States has not fully mobilized to meet the needs of our military and maintain military readiness. “This bill will strengthen our military readiness and our ability to fight terrorists around the world. Specifically, we provide $13.6 billion for the Army and $8.4 billion for the Marine Corps to address equipment reset requirements, $1 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment, and $250 million to address training shortfalls throughout the Armed Services. “The National Defense Authorization Act devotes significant resources to protecting our troops. It provides an additional $4.1 billion for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Vehicles, which have been shown to dramatically reduce the casualties caused by improvised explosive devices (IEDs). This bill also provides funding to make sure our service men and women have the body armor and armored humvees they need to protect them in the field. “Preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and materials is a key part of protecting our national security. This bill would strengthen and expand the Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration’s non-proliferation programs and the Department of Defense’s Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. “The National Defense Authorization Act also protects health care for those who serve by prohibiting fee increases in TRICARE, a health benefit program offered to military personnel and their families.” “Finally, I’m pleased to announce that the National Defense Authorization Act authorizes $1.3 billion for 18 new Growlers, $23.4 million for facility improvements and $10 million for an interior aircraft wash rack at NAS Whidbey.” ###
05.16.2007	Washington, D.C. - In light of former Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey’s testimony yesterday before the Senate Judiciary Committee, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today renewed his call for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to resign. Larsen first called for the Attorney General’s resignation in March. Larsen released the following statement today: "Former Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey’s testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee has shed further light on Attorney General Gonzales’ actions and priorities as a public servant. The events described by Mr. Comey defy common decency and reveal contempt for the rule of law." "It seems that while Mr. Gonzales served as President Bush’s White House Counsel, he pushed to continue spying on American citizens in spite of the Justice Department’s determination that the domestic spying program was illegal. When others stood by their principles, Mr. Gonzales rode roughshod over their concerns and authorized the program without approval from the Justice Department." "As the Attorney General of the United States, Mr. Gonzales has continued to act as if he were President Bush’s personal lawyer. His resignation is long overdue." ###
05.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - On the House floor today, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) urged his colleagues to reauthorize the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program and provide resources to hire an additional 50,000 police officers across the country over the next six years. The COPS Reauthorization Act of 2007 (H.R. 1700) passed the House by a vote of 381 to 34 and will now be sent to the Senate. “Following 9/11, we have asked our state and local law enforcement agencies to not only protect communities from crime, but to protect our homeland,” said Larsen. “We cannot continue to put unfunded mandates on our local police forces and expect them to also provide protection from terrorism.” The COPS program has enabled local law enforcement agencies to hire over 100,000 police officers nationwide between 1995 and 2005, including more than 1,950 additional law enforcement officers in Washington state. According to a non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) study, the COPS program led to significantly reduced crime rates across the country during this ten-year period. Unfortunately, over the last few years the Republican-led Congress cut funding for COPS hiring grants, reducing funding from more than $1 billion a year in the late 1990s to $198 million in 2003 and $10 million in 2005. In 2006, the Republican-led Congress cut off funding for COPS hiring grants entirely. “We must keep up the pressure on crime,” Larsen continued. “The COPS program helps our state and local law enforcement bust drug trafficking rings, take down domestic meth labs and keep our communities safe.” The COPS Reauthorization Act of 2007 has been endorsed by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities. ###
05.10.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Iraq Accountability Act (H.R. 2206). Larsen also voted in favor of H.R. 2237, which calls for the redeployment of U.S. Armed Forces while keeping some troops in Iraq to protect U.S. diplomatic missions, protect American citizens, fight terrorists and train Iraqi security forces. Larsen released the following statement: “The President must be held accountable for his own military and political benchmarks in Iraq. If the President does not meet those benchmarks, we must begin the unconditional partial withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Iraq.“The United States must re-focus our efforts on fighting terrorists around the world. This Congress demands accountability, and we are committed to strengthening our military readiness to confront 21st century threats. “Today, I voted for the Iraq Accountability Act (H.R. 2206). This bill holds the President accountable for his policies and fully and immediately funds our troops. This bill holds the Iraqi government accountable for the benchmarks the President himself has set and re-focuses our efforts on fighting terrorists around the world. “Ten days ago, the President vetoed the first Iraq Accountability Act. In spite of our sincere efforts to find a compromise with accountability, he has threatened to veto this bill as well. “The burden for funding our troops falls on the President once again. If he vetoes this bill, it will not only show a lack of accountability, but a lack of responsibility. “The President should know that Congress will keep working to fund the troops in spite of his veto threats. But that does not mean that we will take strategic redeployment off the table. “That is why I voted for H.R. 2237. I wanted to send a strong message to the President that in spite of his continued veto threats, this Congress will continue holding him accountable. We will keep working for a new direction in Iraq. We will support our troops. And we will re-focus our efforts on pursuing and killing terrorists.”
05.02.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted today to override the President’s veto of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act. Larsen released the following statement: “Last night, the President vetoed a new direction in Iraq. He rejected billions of dollars in funding for our troops in harm’s way. And he said “no” to billions more for veterans health care.” “Although Congress failed to override the President’s veto of the Iraq Accountability Act, the situation has not changed – Congress should not give a blank check to the President. The American people expect a new direction in Iraq. “The patience of the American people is nearly exhausted due to the lack of Iraqi government action to aggressively address the issues at the root of the Iraqi civil war. It seems possible to move forward by insisting on enforceable benchmarks for the Iraqi government. If the Iraqi government doesn’t meet those benchmarks, the United States should cut U.S. taxpayer funding for the Iraqi government and their reconstruction efforts. “Congress must continue to require that U.S. troops deployed to Iraq get training, equipment and time at home consistent with Department of Defense policy. If the President insists on violating those requirements, he must waive them and explain why he is sending our military men and women overseas without the training, equipment and time at home they need.” ###
04.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) is calling on House appropriations leaders to increase funding for the Specialty Crop Block Grants program to help U.S. producers compete in markets around the world. In a letter sent today to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Larsen urged appropriators to fully fund the Specialty Crop Block Grants program which received only $7 million of the $44.5 million authorized by the Specialty Crop Competitiveness Act of 2004 for each of the past two years. Larsen, his colleague Rep. Adam Putnam (R-FL) and 65 of their House colleagues asked appropriators to provide the full $44.5 million in block grants to state agriculture departments to support research, improve food safety and inspection, and enhance the ability of American producers to compete internationally. “Growers in Washington state are not only competing with farmers down the road, but around the world,” said Larsen. “To help Washington farmers thrive in the face of international competition, we need to plant the seeds for success. That means investing in initiatives that work like the Specialty Crop Block grants program.” Earlier this year, Larsen met with Northwest Washington farmers in three counties to discuss the challenges they face competing internationally against foreign producers who are often heavily subsidized and minimally regulated. Washington, whose specialty crops include potatoes, raspberries and nursery products, is the third-largest producer of specialty crops in the country. Specialty crops account for around fifty percent of total cash receipts both nationally and in Washington state. Larsen is committed to helping specialty crops producers stay competitive. In March, Larsen and his colleagues Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Rep. Adam Putman (R-FL), Rep. John Salazar (D-CO), Rep. Randy Kuhl (R-NY) and Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) introduced the “Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act” (EAT Healthy America Act). This bill would support specialty crop growers by increasing market access, encouraging and facilitating consumption of nutritious agricultural products, expanding funding for research programs and increasing opportunities for family farmers in conservation programs. ###
04.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) attended the White House ceremony today honoring National Teacher of the Year Andrea Peterson, a music teacher at the Monte Cristo Elementary School in Granite Falls, Washington. Larsen released the following statement: “When I visited Andrea Peterson’s classroom, each and every one of her students was engaged and excited about learning. Ms. Peterson teaches more than just music appreciation. She helps her students bring music to life.” “Ms. Peterson is an exceptional teacher. She is not only a leader in the classroom, but in the school district and the community as a whole. Her leadership helped transform a handful of old and broken instruments into a top notch, interdisciplinary music program that encourages students to compose their own music and perform in the community.” “I congratulate Ms. Peterson for winning this prestigious national award.” ###
04.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - Wednesday night, a team of students from Western Washington University's Vehicle Research Institute won the Environmental Protection Agency’s People, Prosperity, and the Planet (P3) Award, making them eligible to receive up to $75,000 in EPA grants to further their innovative projects. The students traveled to the competition in Washington, D.C. with their award-winning invention, a natural gas vehicle called the Viking 32. Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) attended the ceremony at the National Academy of Sciences and congratulated the students on their achievement. “In the long-term, creative approaches like this one will help make our country energy independent and protect our environment for future generations,” said Larsen. “These students are leaders in clean energy innovation. We need to follow their lead in Congress.” The Western team was one of six teams from across the country to receive the EPA’s P3 award, which encourages college students to research, develop and design scientific, technical and policy solutions to environmental challenges. To fuel the Viking 32, the students traveled to Washington, D.C. with a portable biogas scrubber that converts biomethane into natural automotive gas. Biogas is a renewable energy source that produces less pollution than fossils fuels like gasoline. This award comes on the heels of the EPA’s Earth Day announcement commending Bellingham, Washington as the most effective Green Power Community in the nation. Bellingham participated in the EPA's six-month Green Power Community Challenge and surpassed their goal with more than 11 percent of all electricity used by the community coming from green power resources. On Saturday in Bellingham, Larsen congratulated the people of Bellingham for their leadership and commitment to renewable energy. “The time has come to invest the energy of our nation in the energy of our future,” said Larsen. “Northwest Washington is leading the way”. ###
04.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - This week, Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted to pass three “Innovation Agenda” bills to invest in America’s small businesses and better equip our 21st century workforce to compete successfully in the global economy. All three bills passed the House of Representatives with broad, bipartisan support. “Congress is investing today for a healthy economy tomorrow,” said Larsen. “Our Innovation Agenda will help create new, high quality jobs and keep America competitive.” On Tuesday, the House passed the “10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds” Science and Math Scholarship Act (H.R. 362) to increase the number of highly-qualified math and science teachers in K-12 schools. This bill will help train 10,000 new math and science teachers, encourage students to get math, science, engineering, and technology degrees, and support young researchers to foster innovative scientific research. “This bill helps give the next generation the tools they need to succeed,” said Larsen. “We need to ensure that our children get the best possible preparation so America can continue leading the world in science and technology.” Today, the House passed the Small Business Lending Improvements Act (H.R. 1332) to make capital more accessible for small businesses through the Small Business Administration (SBA) 7(a) loan program. This legislation establishes a rural lender outreach program to attract small lenders back into the SBA’s lending program and reduces application requirements for borrowers and lenders to streamline the process. It also helps veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan secure capital to start or expand their businesses by increasing to 90 percent the guaranteed portion of loans they receive and eliminating borrower and lender fees. “Last year, the Small Business Administration’s 7(a) loan program helped provide Washington small businesses with more than 2,000 loans,” said Larsen. “The bill we passed today will make a good thing even better by increasing access to capital so more small businesses can thrive and create jobs in Northwest Washington.” Larsen is a member of the House Small Business Committee. ###
04.25.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement tonight on his vote to approve the conference report on the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act (HR 1591 — H Rept 110-107): “This bill holds the president accountable for his policies in Iraq. It holds the Iraqi government accountable for the benchmarks the President himself has set. It re-focuses our efforts on fighting terrorists around the world, and it fully funds our troops in harm's way. We need a new direction in Iraq. If the President vetoes this bill, he will be standing in the way.” ###
04.19.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) will be honored tonight by Food Lifeline, Washington's largest hunger relief agency and an affiliate of America's Second Harvest, for his work to end hunger in our communities. “It takes a lot of people working together to feed hungry people, and when you are fortunate enough to have an elected official like Representative Rick Larsen working diligently at the federal level to ensure that the most vulnerable individuals in our community are receiving the nutritional resources they need, it is important to take a moment and recognize his work,” said Linda Nageotte, President & CEO of Food Lifeline. “On behalf of the more than 560,000 hungry people we serve, Food Lifeline thanks Representative Larsen for his tireless efforts to end hunger in Washington state.” In 2006, Larsen held a series of roundtable events across the 2nd Congressional District bringing together farmers, people on food assistance, hunger activists, state and local agencies and other community members to build partnerships to combat hunger. Throughout his time in Congress, Larsen has worked to bring federal initiatives to Washington state to help fight hunger and deliver healthy foods to children and seniors in need. Larsen continues to make fighting hunger one of his top priorities in Congress. The U.S. House of Representatives was in session today and Larsen’s legislative duties kept him in Washington, D.C., but he recorded a video message thanking Food Lifeline and the other honorees for their work. Below are some facts on hunger in Western Washington and Larsen’s remarks as delivered. Facts on Hunger in Western Washington*: 39% of the hungry people Food Lifeline serves are children. 51% of the hungry people Food Lifeline serves must choose between food and paying for heat. 40% of the hungry people Food Lifeline serves must choose between food and paying for medicine or medical care. 40% of the hungry people Food Lifeline serves must choose between food and rent. Nearly 45% of the individuals using a food bank, meal program or shelter in Western Washington have some form of post-secondary education. Only 15% are actually homeless. Nearly 43% of the people who are emergency food recipients in Western Washington are food insecure. This means that these individuals do not know when they will eat again and often go to bed hungry. *Statistics from Food LifelineLarsen’s Remarks to the Food Lifeline World of Thanks Event: “I want to thank you for inviting me to participate in Food Lifeline’s “World of Thanks” event and for honoring me with the Raising Hunger Awareness Award. More importantly, I want to thank the men and women of Food Lifeline and all the hunger-relief organizations who serve on the front lines in the fight against hunger every day. “Nothing saddens me more than seeing our children suffer from hunger. I am committed to supporting your efforts in Congress and I am dedicated to bringing the same level of urgency and commitment to the hunger epidemic that local organizations and volunteers bring to the issue every day. “Thanks to your efforts, Washington’s food insecurity and hunger rates have improved. But more must be done. According to the most recent statistics, 95,000 Washington residents suffer from hunger. Around 300,000 Washingtonians are forced to choose between putting food on the table and paying their bills. In the wealthiest nation in the world this is simply unacceptable. “The federal government has an important role to play in the battle against hunger. We must work in conjunction with state and local governments to fill in the gaps between faith-based organizations, food banks and local social service agencies’ efforts. As community members it is our responsibility to assist Americans in need. “In 2004, I worked to bring the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Pilot Program to Washington state. This program provides free fresh fruits and vegetables to students in 25 of the most socio-economically challenged schools in our state. The results have been clear -- children are more alert, focused and ready to learn. I support efforts to expand this program in Washington state and across the country. “I have also worked to battle the problem of children not getting enough to eat when school is out of session. As you know, only a fraction of children who receive free and reduced lunches during the school year receive meals during the summer. I was pleased when Washington state began participating in the Lugar Pilot Program to provide kids with breakfast and lunch when they are not in school. It is essential that we continue to find ways to combat childhood hunger. “As you know, Congress will work to reauthorize the Farm Bill this year. It is crucial that the 2007 Farm Bill reflects the need for strong federal anti-hunger programs and provides support for emergency food assistance programs. “Efforts such as the Food Stamp Program and the Commodity Supplemental Food Program are our nation’s first line of defense in the fight against hunger. “Within the Farm Bill, Congress must also find more ways to build partnerships with local agriculture producers and anti-hunger organizations. We must continue to grow successful efforts like the WIC Farmers Market Nutrition program which provides locally grown healthy and nutritious food to our seniors. “I will be working closely with the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, Collin Peterson of Minnesota, to address these critical areas and work on writing the best Farm Bill we can. “In closing, I want to thank you once again for the work you do every day to alleviate hunger in our communities. Your work truly makes a difference.” ###
04.18.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s investigation and hearing today into failures by the Coast Guard and its contractors to successfully retrofit 123-foot patrol boats as part of the $24 billion Deepwater Program: “Investigations by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee have revealed that the Coast Guard’s Deepwater program is even deeper in trouble. “I have grave concerns that the Coast Guard’s 123-foot cutters were handling classified information without being properly certified. That is simply irresponsible and it may have compromised our national security.” “Across the board, it seems the Coast Guard’s contractors have been more interested in cutting costs and corners than in delivering safe cutters so the Coast Guard can protect our shores.” “The people who negotiated the Deepwater contract were in deep over their heads. The Coast Guard let contractors get away with finishing the job quickly without making sure that they got it done right. When the contractors delivered a shoddy product, the Coast Guard failed to hold them accountable. Even more troubling, under the Coast Guard’s contract the same contractors could have been awarded another lucrative deal to fix their own mistakes. “I applaud the Coast Guard’s announcement yesterday that they will be taking steps to regain control over the floundering Deepwater project. The Coast Guard has failed to provide appropriate oversight, and American taxpayers are footing the bill.”###
04.17.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House floor today in favor of his Wild Sky legislation to designate 106,577 acres of national forest in east Snohomish County as wilderness. The Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007 (H.R. 886) passed the House of Representatives today by a voice vote. Below are Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “I rise today in support of creating the first wilderness area in Washington state in 20 years. The Wild Sky Wilderness will be unique, protecting 106,000 acres of the most pristine forests and streams in my district, while providing a clean accessible place to hike, hunt and fish. “The Wild Sky Wilderness Act is carefully crafted legislation that reflects years of community input. It will protect the peaks, forests and lakes of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest as well as thousands of acres of lower elevation forests and salmon-bearing streams. “Wild Sky will protect more low-elevation acres than any other wilderness area in the state, bringing wilderness closer to our communities and benefiting Washington families and businesses for generations to come. “Congress passed the last National Forest Wilderness Act for Washington state in 1984 when a bipartisan effort brought a bill to President Ronald Reagan for signature that created among other wilderness areas the Henry M. Jackson Wilderness. “The Wild Sky Wilderness Act has strong bipartisan support. This bill has received strong support from local Republican and Democratic legislators, former Republican Governors and our current Democratic Governor, Christine Gregoire. Additionally, state legislators and the Snohomish County Executive have expressed their support. “The Wild Sky Wilderness Act has local support. The former Mayor of the Town of Index, the closest local government to the proposed wilderness, has said that “the Wild Sky Wilderness would be the best thing that ever happened in his valley.” The cities of Monroe and Snohomish, both located on Highway 2 on the way to the Wild Sky, have passed resolutions of support. “The Wild Sky Wilderness Act has strong business support. REI, Inc., the nation’s largest consumer cooperative with its focus on the outdoor adventure industry, is an endorser as are David and Lynn Meier, co-owners of A Stone’s Throw Bed and Breakfast and A Cabin in the Sky vacation rental. Additionally, the Snohomish County Economic Development Council supports the proposal. “This bill marks the summit of a five year process of inclusiveness and compromise. “My staff and the staff of Senator Patty Murray, who is the prime sponsor in the Senate, have worked over the last five years to address local concerns. As a result of community input the original idea of a 120,000-acre proposal became the 106,577-acre bill that we are voting on today. “This spirit of compromise has been a constant in the bill’s development over the last five years. This past winter, massive floods altered the path of the Skykomish river displacing and destroying parts of the primary road that snakes through the proposed wilderness area. Immediately, Senator Murray and I brought together Snohomish County, the forest service and local advocates to responsibly adjust the boundaries of the proposed wilderness to ensure that the road could be repaired and remain open in to the future. “This spirit of compromise has earned the support of groups such as the Washington Seaplane Pilots Association, local tribes, the Wild Steelhead Coalition, the backcountry horsemen and the Washington Coalition of Citizens with disAbilities. Additionally my office has received approximately 4,000 letters and e-mails in support of Wild Sky and a petition with over 10,000 names. “Over five years of collaboration and compromise has resulted in a bill that has gained broad support in the best tradition of past Washington wildernesses. It is now time to create the next generation of Washington state wilderness. “Finally, I would like to thank Chairman Rahall and his staff, Jim Zoia and Rick Healy, for their tremendous help and unwavering support for the Wild Sky Wilderness Act.” ###
03.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Democratic budget for Fiscal Year 2008 (H. Con. Res. 99) which passed the House by a vote of 216 to 210. The Senate passed their budget (S. Con. Res. 21) last week and the next step is for the two bills to be reconciled in conference committee. Larsen issued the following statement today:"This budget is the ultimate achievement of the first 100 days of the new Congress. While the President's budgets have turned surpluses into deficits, our budget restores fiscal responsibility and balances the budget by 2012. This budget refocuses our resources on important national priorities. It makes middle class tax cuts a priority, including tax fairness for Washington state families. It provides resources to ensure that soldiers and veterans get the care they need and deserve. It invests in education for a 21st century workforce. And it expands health care for our children."As we move forward with the budget and other legislation that addresses federal spending, I will continue working for a new direction to make sure our efforts in Congress reflect the needs and values of Northwest Washington. “I will help our small businesses and farms thrive by increasing access to capital and building a foundation for national and global competition. I will work to make sure local law enforcement has the resources they need to keep our communities safe and combat methamphetamine by strengthening prevention, treatment and education efforts. I will fight to end hunger, especially for the most vulnerable among us. And I will work to bring veterans' health care and services closer to veterans.”###
03.28.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007 (H.R.1538) which improves access to quality medical care for wounded service members at military facilities, cuts bureaucratic red tape and improves the transition of wounded service members from the Armed Forces to the Veterans Affairs system. This legislation passed the House today by a unanimous vote. On March 20, Larsen voted with all of his colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to approve this bipartisan legislation and send it to the floor for a vote. “The bureaucratic treatment some service members have faced at Walter Reed and other facilities is simply unacceptable,” said Larsen. “This bipartisan legislation will help fix substandard conditions and cut red tape to make sure that everyone who serves this country gets the top-notch care they need when they need it.” A recent investigation by the Department of Veterans Affairs found more than 1,000 reports of substandard conditions as well as threats to patient safety at military hospitals and facilities across the country. According to the Pentagon, more than 24,000 service members have been wounded in Iraq since the beginning of the war. More than 10,500 of those men and women have been unable to return to duty. Last week, the House took first steps to address the problems revealed at Walter Reed and other facilities by including in the Iraq Accountability Act (H.R.1591) an additional $1.7 billion for military health care. The Iraq Accountability Act also adds $1.7 billion more for veterans’ health care to ensure that those who serve our country get the care they need and deserve. “The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act and the Iraq Accountability Act are critical steps. But there is more work to be done to honor our duty to those who serve our country, both on the battlefield and at home,” Larsen continued. “This is only the beginning of our work for a new direction.” ###
03.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of legislation closing the loophole in the Patriot Act that grants the Attorney General the authority to make indefinite appointments of U.S. Attorneys without Senate confirmation (H.R. 580). This bipartisan bill passed the House by a vote of 329 to 78. Similar bipartisan legislation passed the Senate last week by a vote of 94 to 2. Larsen issued the following statement today: “The Senate confirmation process is a key part of our system of checks and balances. This bill restores Congressional oversight to the hiring of U.S. Attorneys. The President should be accountable for the Attorneys he chooses to appoint.” “We need the truth about the U.S. Attorney firings. Testimony provided under oath, with transcripts, is the way to get it. The White House’s reluctance to provide sworn testimony of top aides, recorded for the public record, risks turning this grave matter into a he-said, she-said parlor game.” “It is clear that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has not been forthcoming about his role in the U.S. Attorney firings. For the sake of our justice system, he should resign.”###
03.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement congratulating Governor Gregoire for her leadership on a Washington state pilot project for a passport alternative: “I commend Governor Gregoire for her leadership finding long-term solutions to the challenges we face on our Northern border. The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative will have a big impact on cross-border trade, and it’s essential that we move forward in the right way. While this pilot project is a step in the right direction, many challenges lie ahead. For the sake of our Northwest economy, we must keep Northern border crossings safe, fast and convenient. ” ###
03.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Health, and Iraq Accountability Act (H.R.1591). Larsen issued the following statement: “It’s time for a change in direction. Instead of focusing our military and diplomatic energy on fighting a sectarian civil war, the Iraq Accountability Act re-focuses our efforts on fighting terrorism around the world – both today and in the future. “The Iraq Accountability Act holds the president accountable for his policies in Iraq. It holds the Iraqi government accountable for the benchmarks the President himself has set. And it aims to stop the slow bleed of well-equipped, trained and rested troops from our military. “To fight terrorism around the world, we need a ready and flexible military. But this war has sapped our ability to train here at home with functional equipment. It has sapped our ability to recruit for the future, and it has sapped our ability to prepare for 21st century threats. We need to stop this slow bleed of military readiness. We are sending men and women to Iraq in violation of the President’s own standards for training, equipment and time at home. That hurts our military readiness, and it hurts our military families. “The Iraq Accountability Act also provides funding for defense and veterans health care above and beyond the president’s budget request. Enlisted men and women have faced unacceptable conditions at Walter Reed and other facilities. They deserve better care, and this bill will help make sure they get it. It will also help prevent another Walter Reed situation in our veterans health care system. “Congress has a constitutional duty to provide oversight. The time for accountability has come. We are holding the president accountable not only for his policies in Iraq and Afghanistan, but for the conditions our enlisted soldiers and veterans face here at home.” ###
03.21.2007	Washington, D.C. - This week, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), Rep. Adam Putman (R-FL), Rep. John Salazar (D-CO), Rep. Randy Kuhl (R-NY) and Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) introduced the “Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy America Act” (EAT Healthy America Act). This bill would support specialty crop growers by increasing market access, encouraging and facilitating consumption of nutritious agricultural products, expanding funding for research programs and increasing opportunities for family farmers in conservation programs. “Today's growers are competing not only with farmers down the road, but with farmers around the world,” said Larsen. “The EAT Healthy America Act will help our specialty crop growers access new markets and compete internationally. This bill is a big leap toward recognizing and promoting the economic contributions that specialty crop growers make to Washington state, the Pacific Northwest and the country.” In April, Larsen met with Washington farmers in three counties to discuss the 2007 Farm Bill and the need for comprehensive specialty crop legislation. Washington’s specialty crops include potatoes, raspberries and nursery products, and Washington is the third-largest producer of specialty crops in the country. At meetings with Snohomish and Skagit county farmers, Larsen was joined by Rep. Dennis Cardoza (D-CA), a key player in creating the 2007 Farm Bill and chairman of the House Agriculture Committee's Subcommittee on Horticulture and Organic Agriculture. “The passage of the EAT Healthy America Act would represent a huge step forward for federal farm programs,” said Cardoza when he joined Larsen and the bipartisan coalition in introducing the bill. “Specialty crops are an important part of local economies in all 50 states, and it is imperative that we recognize their vital contributions by ensuring that specialty crop growers have an important role in the future of American agriculture.” Specialty crops, which include fruits, vegetables, tree nuts, dried fruits and nursery products, are a significant part of the American agriculture industry, constituting almost fifty percent of total cash receipts both nationally and in Washington state. ###
03.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Accountability in Contracting Act (H.R.1362) which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 347 to 73. The House Armed Services Committee, of which Larsen is a member, approved the bill on Wednesday and sent it to the floor for a vote. Larsen issued the following statement today: “From the war in Iraq to post-Katrina reconstruction, no-bid contracts awarded by the current administration have wasted billions of taxpayer dollars. Unfortunately, the last Congress overlooked these problems instead of providing needed oversight. The new Congress is committed to confronting and repairing this administration’s legacy of waste, fraud and abuse.” “The Accountability in Contracting Act is an important step toward restoring accountability. It instructs federal agencies to minimize the use of no-bid contracts, limits the duration of no-bid contracts awarded in emergencies, promotes the use of fixed-price contracts, requires public disclosure of the rationale for awarding no-bid contracts and requires agencies to report to Congress on contract overcharges.” “These commonsense measures restore long-overdue Congressional oversight to government contracts and help ensure that taxpayer dollars are awarded in a fair, open manner. We owe it to our constituents to make sure their money is spent responsibly.” “This legislation is one of five bipartisan bills the House passed this week to help make our government more open and transparent. This Congress is serious about fulfilling our constitutional duty to provide oversight, and we are committed to making government accountable to the American people.” ###
03.08.2007	Washington, D.C. - At a House Armed Services Committee hearing today on the challenges and obstacles wounded and injured service members face during recovery, U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) condemned reports of substandard conditions at Walter Reed and other Army facilities and urged Army Surgeon General Kevin C. Kiley, Army Chief of Staff General Peter J. Schoomaker, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness David S.C. Chu and Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs William Winkenwerder -- all of whom testified before the committee today -- to improve health care services for active duty personnel returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. “I do not want you to think the morale problem at Walter Reed is a function of media exposure, it is the function of a disastrous and horrendous failure in leadership,” said Larsen to Army brass. “We’re here because we need to ask, why did this happen in the first place,” Larsen continued, “Secretary Gates, to his credit, has come down like a ton of bricks on this issue, and frankly, I hope he has a few more tons of bricks to bring down before, during or after the independent review process is done.” Larsen also urged Army leadership to speed up screening for traumatic brain injuries sustained in combat. “Traumatic brain injury is of great importance,” said Larsen. “We can’t wait too long before we try to screen some of these folks. We need to screen faster, and we need to catch it sooner.”Traumatic brain injury is a growing problem among wounded men and women returning from combat. It has been called the “signature injury” of the Iraq war. Symptoms can include headaches, irritability and sleep disorders as well as memory problems and depression. Soldiers can sustain traumatic brain injuries without having visible external injuries, making prompt screening particularly important.###
03.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, the House Natural Resources Committee passed legislation introduced by U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) to make Wild Sky the first new Wilderness Area in Washington state in over twenty years. The next step will be a vote on the floor of the House. “We’ve reached the pinnacle of a long hike,” said Larsen. “Getting Wild Sky legislation through the House Natural Resources Committee is like arriving at the summit of Mount Fernow. I’m looking forward to the celebration at the end of the trail.” “I stated earlier this year that Wild Sky was the highest wilderness priority for the Natural Resources Committee. I am pleased that the Committee favorably reported this measure at its first business meeting, and commend Rep. Larsen for his diligent work in seeing that this wilderness area is protected for future generations to come,” said U.S. Rep. Nick J. Rahall (D-WV), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee.“I’ve seen firsthand the beauty of this wilderness from the summit of Mount Baring and I’m proud legislation to protect it cleared an important hurdle today,” said House Natural Resources Committee member and Wild Sky cosponsor U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) during the panel’s proceedings today. “Finally, the will of Washingtonians is prevailing.”Larsen and Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) first introduced legislation to make Wild Sky a National Wilderness Area on May 29, 2002. In the 107th, the 108th and the 109th Congresses, the bill passed the Senate and enjoyed broad bipartisan support but failed to make it through the House. Murray and Larsen carefully crafted this legislation with years of input from constituents and local stakeholders including Snohomish County, the local Forest Service, Washington Seaplane Pilots Association, local tribes, Washington Snowmobilers Association, Snohomish County Emergency Responders, backcountry horsemen and the Washington Coalition of Citizens with Disabilities. Larsen and Murray also held public meetings in Index and Monroe.The Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007 will designate over 106,000 acres of national forest in east Snohomish County as wilderness. In the past, wilderness has consisted solely of old growth forest at higher elevations. Wild Sky represents a new approach by protecting thousands of acres of low-elevation old growth and 25 miles of salmon streams while still making the land available and accessible for recreational use.The area is located within 90 minutes of 2.5 million people.###
03.02.2007	Washington, D.C. - Friday, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA) reintroduced their proposal to help northern border communities cover the cost of detaining and prosecuting suspects charged with federal border crimes. Cantwell introduced the bipartisan Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act as an amendment to the Improving America’s Security Act (S. 4). Larsen introduced the measure as stand-alone legislation in the House. The proposal would set up a reimbursement program to help border communities continue their vital role in keeping our country secure without breaking their budgets. “Our northern border communities are on the front lines when it comes to border security, but we are not doing nearly enough to help them,” said Cantwell. “Border counties in our state pay for and prosecute as many as 85 percent of the border arrests made in our state each year. We’re already helping our southern border communities with security costs. It’s time we do the same along our 4,000-mile northern border.” “Whatcom County is spending more than 2 million dollars a year to prosecute federal border crimes,” said Larsen. “This bill will help relieve the heavy financial burden imposed on our northern border communities. Congress has a responsibility to provide the necessary resources to keep our communities safe.” “It is essential that we are giving local authorities and law enforcement the funding, tools and resources necessary to secure the Northern Border and keep our communities safe,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the lead Republican cosponsor of the House bill. “Counties such as Okanogan, Ferry, Stevens, and Pend Oreille accrue tremendous costs associated with border-related crimes and deserve to be reimbursed by the federal government.” Modeled on an existing, successful program for the southwest border, the Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act (H.R. 1291 in the House) would authorize $28 million annually to reimburse northern border communities for the cost of prosecuting cases, detaining suspects, and constructing holding spaces. Reimbursements would cover investigations and arrests initiated by federal law enforcement officers, as well as any case involving a violation of federal border security law referred to state or local authorities for prosecution. Larsen introduced this bill in the House in 2002, and he and Cantwell have reintroduced it in each successive Congress. In 2006, the Senate version was included in the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act passed by the Senate in May. However, the immigration legislation later stalled and the Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act never received final approval from Congress. Earlier this week, Cantwell also joined Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) in introducing a separate, complementary amendment to supply additional resources to local law enforcement officers working along America’s borders. The measure would set up a grant program to help law enforcement serving communities within 100 miles of the U.S. border. Funds allocated under the grant program could be used to hire additional personnel, obtain new equipment, upgrade law enforcement technology, and cover over-time and transportations costs. # # #
03.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Employee Free Choice Act which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 241 to 185. Larsen issued the following statement: “I grew up in a union household. My Dad worked hard to give our family a better life, and his union helped make that possible. I’m committed to making sure working families today get the same chance.” “Many employers respect the right to form unions. But some have stooped to harassment and intimidation to discourage union membership. That needs to change. Workers who choose to form unions must be allowed to do so and their right to a fair, open process must be protected. We must protect the right to bargain for higher wages, benefits and a better life. “The Employee Free Choice Act will make sure that when workers choose to form a union, that choice is respected.” ###
02.16.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) which includes $1.3 billion in tax cuts to help small businesses grow and hire new workers. The U.S. House of Representatives passed the legislation by a vote of 360 to 45. “Small businesses are the heart and soul of Northwest Washington’s economy,” said Larsen. “This legislation will provide welcome tax relief, help small businesses grow and create family wage jobs.” The Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 extends small business expensing under Section 179 for one year – increasing both the amount small businesses can deduct from their taxes (from $112,000 to $125,000) and the number of small businesses that can take these deductions (by increasing the income limits for businesses taking the deduction from $450,000 to $500,000). This legislation is fiscally responsible and fully paid for in accordance with the House’s new pay-go rule. Today’s passage of the Small Business Tax Relief Act by the House is a key step in getting an increase in the federal minimum wage passed into law. In January, the House passed legislation to raise the federal minimum wage incrementally from the current level of $5.15 an hour to $7.25 an hour over the next two years. The Senate also passed a minimum wage increase, but amended the House-passed bill to include a package of tax cuts. The Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 will help reconcile the House and Senate-passed measures. “With the highest minimum wage in the country, Washington state is ahead of the curve,” said Larsen. “Closing the gap between the federal minimum wage and Washington state’s minimum wage will make our businesses more competitive and keep Washington businesses in Washington. “It’s plain wrong that hard-working Americans earning the minimum wage are forced to live in poverty,” Larsen continued. “We need to end this injustice and bring hope to millions of American workers and their families.” ###
02.16.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) voted today in favor of the resolution expressing support for our troops and opposition to the President's proposal to escalate the war in Iraq. The resolution passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 182. Larsen issued the following statement: “The president's announcement to add 21,500 U.S. troops to Iraq is a step in the wrong direction. The president promised a new approach, but more troops does not equal a new way forward. “Every state in the country, including Washington, has National Guard units that are depleted, that don’t have the equipment they need to train and are forced to leave equipment in theater, making it harder for them to do their jobs here at home. “This war has sapped our ability to train here at home with functional equipment. It has sapped our ability to recruit for the future, and it has sapped our ability to prepare for 21st century threats. “The president’s escalation plan will not solve these problems, it will make them worse. The president’s plan will not decrease our strategic risk, it will exacerbate it. “This escalation will hurt our military at home and it will hurt our military abroad, but most importantly it is another flawed strategy that hinges its success on a weak Iraqi government beset by sectarian civil war.” ###
02.15.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Fred Upton (R-MI) and Rick Larsen (D-WA) have re-introduced legislation to crack down on the bulk sale of dextromethorphan (DXM). The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2007 (H.R. 970) makes it illegal to distribute unfinished DXM to a person or company not registered with the FDA and will help prevent the abuse of this drug, which has resulted in deaths across the country. This bipartisan legislation passed the House in 2006. “As a parent of two teenagers, I am alarmed by the number of teens abusing cough syrup and pure DXM to get a high,” said Upton. “Kids are under the false impression that getting high off of DXM is harmless because it is an ingredient in cough syrup. Nothing can be further from the truth. Our kids are playing a game of Russian roulette each time they get high off of DXM. Sooner or later, someone dies – enough is enough. As it stands, DXM is only a click of a mouse away from arriving on our kids’ doorsteps. This common sense piece of legislation will put an end to the bulk sale of DXM over the Internet, and keep our kids safe from the dangers of this type of drug abuse.” DXM is a non-narcotic cough suppressant used in many over-the-counter cough and cold medicines. While medicines containing DXM are used safely by millions of Americans each year, taken in extremely large quantities DXM produces a hallucinogenic high and can cause brain damage, seizures and death. Studies have shown that teenagers are obtaining unfinished DXM to get high by consuming large amounts of the powder or mixing it with alcohol. Recent research indicates that abuse of DXM has increased sharply in recent years. According to the Partnership for a Drug-Free America, 1 in 11 teenagers have used cough medicines to get high. “The only people who should be buying unfinished DXM are those who manufacture cough and cold medications,” said Larsen. “This commonsense bill will protect our children from a new breed of drug dealer selling dangerous substances over the Internet.” In April of 2005, two teenagers from Whatcom County, Washington overdosed on DXM they had purchased online. The investigation of their deaths showed the teenagers had ordered the drug over the Internet from two men in Indiana who were selling pure DXM after obtaining it from sources in India. Three other children from Florida and Virginia also died from overdosing on DXM they had purchased from the same two men. “Our laws are lacking when children can order shipments of dextromethorphan over the Internet,” said Sheriff Bill Elfo, who investigated the DXM overdoses in Whatcom County. “The illicit distribution of this drug has caused the deaths of two young people in our community and others across the nation. Illicit purveyors of this product need to be held accountable. This legislation will go a long way towards combating this problem on a national level.” The Dextromethorphan Distribution Act of 2007 is endorsed by the American Pharmacists Association, Consumer Healthcare Products Association, Food Marketing Institute, National Association of Chain Drug Stores and The Partnership for a Drug Free America. ###
02.14.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke before the House Budget Committee today and urged them to disregard the President’s proposed cuts for Fiscal Year 2008 and fully fund programs to help local law enforcement combat methamphetamine. Below are Congressman Larsen’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you, Chairman Spratt. I appreciate the opportunity to speak today in favor of funding for programs that aid in the fight against methamphetamine. “As you know, methamphetamine is an insidious drug. It is literally a chemical cocktail, made from hazardous, caustic substances, and it affects every aspect of our communities. Meth labs pollute the environment, endanger children, and wreak havoc on our neighborhoods. Meth users steal innocent victims’ identities and will commit any crime in search of their next fix. The toll on our businesses, families, environment, schools, and communities is extreme. “What started out as a regional West Coast drug has quickly enveloped the entire country. All you have to do is look at a map to see the spread of meth use. In 2005, 49 states reported meth lab incidents. “The fight against meth has thus far been fought mainly at the state and local level, with assistance from the federal government. Our states have done a tremendous job reducing the number of homegrown meth labs. “Thanks to state laws restricting access to meth precursors, and also to the Combat Meth Epidemic Act, the number of domestic meth labs has significantly decreased in recent years, from over 17,000 labs busted in 2003 down to 6,435 in 2006. “But while meth labs are decreasing, meth use is still on the rise, fueled by cheap, pure crystal meth from countries like Mexico. It is time that we bring the same level of urgency and commitment to the federal government’s efforts to combat meth as states and local communities have been bringing to the issue for years. “Our state and local law enforcement officers, treatment providers and prevention experts have proven effective in beating back meth. But they can’t do it alone. There are many successful federal programs that provide them with desperately needed resources to do their jobs. Unfortunately, many of these programs have taken severe budget cuts in recent years. “One such program is the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program. This important program supports multi-jurisdictional regional drug task forces and aids our local and state law enforcement in busting drug trafficking rings. It is the only formula grant program available to local law enforcement agencies. Through Byrne-JAG dollars, state, county, and city law enforcement are able to work together with federal law enforcement agents to stem the flow of meth and save communities from crime. “One success story of Byrne-JAG can be found in my district. In June of 2005, the ATF, along with the Northwest Regional Drug Task Force, made close to 40 arrests as part of a three-state effort to dismantle a drug and gun-selling operation based in Bellingham, Washington. The arrests were the culmination of a two-year investigation. Operation Roadhouse, as it was called, would not have been possible without Byrne-JAG. Those federal dollars allowed the drug task force to do its part in busting the bad guys. “Unfortunately, the President has continuously proposed to eliminate the Byrne-JAG program despite success stories like the one in my district. “The President’s FY08 Budget request again eliminates the Byrne-JAG program but keeps the name “Byrne” as part of the new Byrne Public Safety and Protection program. This new Byrne program consolidates eleven different justice programs and under funds them. These eleven programs were funded at almost 800 million dollars individually in FY2006, but the President’s request proposes to fund all eleven at only 350 million dollars for FY2008. “The Committee graciously included 900 million for the Byrne-JAG program in your fiscal year 2007 budget resolution. For fiscal year 2008, I encourage you to reject the President’s new Byrne Public Safety and Protection program and to again provide 900 million dollars in budget authority for Byrne-JAG as it stands today. “Since FY2002, justice assistance program funding in the Department of Justice budget has been cut by more than 63 percent. “Crime isn’t just a local issue and we owe it to our constituents to help protect them. “Another important law enforcement program within DOJ’s budget is the Community Oriented Policing Services, or COPS, program. The President proposes to cut COPS by over 500 million dollars in fiscal year 2008. For fiscal year 2007 he asked for 117 million for COPS, but Congress disregarded that request and funded it at 542 million. I ask the Committee to again disregard the President’s budget request and to provide full funding for COPS in your budget resolution. “This week I visited the Drug Enforcement Administration’s training facilities at Quantico and took part in some of the training DEA provides for state and local law enforcement. I got a small taste of the dangers faced by the men and women on the front lines of the meth epidemic. They confront dangerous criminals, hazardous chemicals and life-threatening explosives every time they bust a meth lab. Our DEA agents do great work and the training they provide is useful preparation for local law enforcement. Unfortunately, the President’s FY2008 request of 1.8 billion is not enough to hire new agents and the DEA faces a hiring freeze for the next two years. I encourage this Committee to include enough funding in its budget resolution to fully fund the DEA. “In conclusion, I’d like to mention a handful of programs that aid both in the fight against meth and drug abuse in general. “While law enforcement is important, preventing drug abuse in the first place is key. Both the Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities and the Drug-Free Communities programs are critical to ensuring safe, healthy, and drug-free schools. For those who miss the prevention message and choose to abuse alcohol and drugs, access to treatment is vital. The Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant is the backbone of our nation’s publicly funded treatment and prevention system and serves our most vulnerable citizens. “I again thank you for the opportunity to address the Committee today. I have additional comments that I will submit for the record. “Thank you and I’m happy to answer any questions.” ###
02.14.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) spoke on the House Floor today in favor of the Iraq resolution that expresses support for our troops and opposition to the President's proposal to escalate the war in Iraq. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of a strong U.S. military, a military that is ready to combat terrorists and a military that is ready for the challenges of this century. For these reasons I oppose the President’s plan to escalate the war in Iraq. “The president's announcement to add 21,500 U.S. troops to Iraq is a step in the wrong direction. The American public does not want an escalation of the Iraq war, especially without an explanation of what we are trying to achieve. The president promised a new approach but more troops does not equal a new way forward. “The United States has a choice: we can keep a lid on Iraq's civil war or we can devote enough time and attention to fighting terrorists wherever they are and securing a military that is prepared to protect our national security. “I choose the latter. But at a time when we need to manage our strategic risk in the face of terrorists and nuclear uncertainty -- at a time when our enemies are numerous, unpredictable and dangerous -- this Administration has made the wrong choice. “I believe this approach damages our military readiness today and damages our ability to prepare for threats in the future. “This war has sapped our ability to train here at home with functional equipment. It has sapped the ability of our services to recruit for the future and it has sapped our ability to prepare a defense budget that can prepare us for 21st century threats. “Every state in this union, including Washington state, has National Guard units that are depleted, that don’t have the equipment they need to train and are forced to leave equipment in theater, making it harder to do their job here at home. “In Washington state 90 percent of the Army National Guard and 65 percent of the Air National Guard have deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan and performed admirably and honorably. “But at home they only have 55 percent of their required equipment on hand. Equipment that is integral to the training of those guardsmen. “The president’s escalation plan will not solve these problems, it will make them worse. The president’s plan will not decrease our strategic risk; will exacerbate it. “Units at home are struggling just to meet the training requirements necessary to deploy to Iraq. “With this escalation plan, units at home will suffer as the Army and Marine Corps are forced to take more of their equipment to supply the additional brigades going into Iraq, depleting their training opportunities. “Equipment shortages at home are what we hear about most, but the war’s effect on our prepositioned equipment abroad may be as serious a threat. “The Army relies on prepositioned sets of equipment in strategic locations around the world. This equipment ensures that our troops are able to deploy at a moments notice. A large portion of this equipment has been taken to support the troop increase, increasing the chance that equipment won’t be available in case of an emerging crisis. “As we can see, this escalation will hurt our military at home and it will hurt our military abroad, but most importantly it is another flawed strategy that hinges its success on a weak Iraqi government beset by a sectarian civil war. “I have lost confidence in the Iraqi government to fulfill its commitments to the United States. I want our women and men in the military to know we have a strategy that is worthy of their individual actions and sacrifice and that they will have the resources necessary to do their jobs. Most of all, I am concerned that the president's decisions have led us away from our greatest national security threat--fighting terrorists who will do us harm. “And make no mistake – while some of us support this escalation and some of us oppose it, all of us can agree on the need to support our men and women in the military, honor their commitment, and make sure they get the resources they need to do their jobs. “Vote for H.CON.RES 63 to show that the escalation is a step in the wrong direction.” ###
02.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd) today announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has selected Everett, WA for a new Vet Center. VA Vet Centers provide readjustment counseling and outreach services to combat veterans. The Everett Vet Center is scheduled to open in 2008. "I am pleased that the VA has recognized the needs of the Everett veterans community," said Senator Murray. "Especially now, with the War in Iraq producing more and more veterans who are struggling with PTSD and other mental health issues, it is imperative that veterans have a support system that is close at hand. This center will be a place where veterans can get help finding a job or accessing the support services they have earned." "Last week, Senator Murray and I were thrilled to hear from the VA that they had approved a community-based outpatient clinic for veterans in Northwest Washington," said Larsen. "Today, we have more good news -- the VA is bringing a new Vet center to Everett. This center will provide critical resources and support for many veterans in my district, including those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan." The Everett site selection is part of a VA Vet Center expansion to 23 new communities across the nation over the next two years. VA Vet Centers are staffed by teams of counselors and outreach specialists, many of whom are combat veterans themselves. They provide counseling on mental health and employment, as well as services on family issues, education, and outreach. The vet center program was established by Congress in 1979. Veterans who served in combat are eligible for care at a VA vet center at no cost, as are their families for military-related issues. Also eligible are veterans who were sexually assaulted or harassed while on active duty and the families of service members who die on active duty. Senator Murray visited Everett on August 18th of last year to hold a roundtable discussion with Everett area vets. She heard about their frustrations in accessing services in the area. In August, Larsen also met with Northern Snohomish County veterans to discuss their need for increased services. Senator Murray, who is a senior member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, has worked hand-in-hand with Congressmen Larsen to improve VA access in Northwest Washington. Just last week, Murray and Larsen announced that the VA has agreed to open a health clinic in Northwest Washington to serve veterans in a five-county area. That clinic, which will be located in the Mount Vernon area, will also serve the Everett veterans community. ###
02.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) today praised the passage of the Methamphetamine Remediation Act of 2007 by the U.S. House of Representatives: “In the process of cooking a batch of methamphetamine, hazardous chemicals seep into the interior of a home. Often, innocent families move into former meth labs, completely unaware that their new home was once used to cook meth. It isn’t until they become ill that they learn something is terribly wrong.” “DEA reported over 12,000 meth lab busts in 49 states in 2005, but there are currently no federal standards or health-based guidelines to determine when a former lab is safe to inhabit.” “This bill will create the research to determine when a former lab is safe to inhabit and how these hazardous substances impact the health of families exposed. We owe it to the children found in meth labs each year to learn how their health has been affected and how best to treat them.” “As a Co-Chair of the Meth Caucus, I am proud to have supported this important legislation, and I’m proud that the House passed it today.” ###
02.07.2007	Washington, D.C. - Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Rick Larsen (D-Wash.) introduced companion legislation in the House and Senate today to create the first new Wilderness area in Washington state in over twenty years. After more than five years of preparation, Murray and Larsen are hopeful that their Wild Sky legislation will become law in 2007. "We have a great tradition of preserving the places that make Washington unique, and the Wild Sky Wilderness bill continues that tradition," Murray said. "I'm thrilled that we will finally have a real opportunity to protect this remarkable area. It's the right thing to do for our environment, our economy, and future generations.” “Senator Murray and I are introducing this bill to protect some of the most pristine forests and streams in Washington state.” said Larsen. “Years of community input have helped us carefully craft this legislation to protect Wild Sky. Washington families and businesses will benefit from this accessible wilderness for generations to come.” Larsen and Murray originally introduced legislation to make Wild Sky a National Wilderness Area on May 29, 2002. In the 107th, the 108th and the 109th Congress, the bill passed the Senate and enjoyed broad bi-partisan support but failed to make it through the House. The Wild Sky Wilderness Act of 2007 will designate 106,577 acres of national forest in east Snohomish County as wilderness. In the past, wilderness has consisted solely of old growth forest at higher elevations. Wild Sky protects thousands of acres of low-elevation old growth and 25 miles of salmon streams to make the land accessible for recreational use.The area is located within 90 minutes of 2.5 million people.“It’s long past time we added this magnificent natural treasure to our nation’s wilderness system, and this year we intend to get the job done,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “Preserving Wild Sky will boost tourism at gateway communities all along Highway 2, safeguard accessible recreation opportunities, and protect an irreplaceable piece of Washington’s natural heritage.”“Having looked down from the summit of Mount Baring, I can tell you this truly is wild country worth protecting,” said U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), who serves on the House panel with jurisdiction over wilderness bills. “It’s amazing we have such pristine forest so close to downtown Seattle. I look forward to helping the efforts of Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen by shepherding the bill through the Natural Resources Committee.”The carefully crafted bill was designed after consulting with constituents and a number of interested parties. Public meetings were held in both Index and Monroe. Since 2001, staff from Murray and Larsen's office have been in constant communication with Snohomish County and the local Forest Service. They have also worked with the Washington Seaplane Pilots Association, local tribes, Washington Snowmobilers Association, Snohomish County Emergency Responders, backcountry horsemen and Washington Coalition of Citizens with disAbilities. Murray and Larsen continued to communicate with local stakeholders following the Fall of 2006 floods. ###
02.05.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement today on President Bush’s budget request for 2008: “The President’s irresponsible budget proposal raises co-pays and enrollment fees for veterans, cuts funding to combat methamphetamine, cuts funding for programs that help small businesses get off the ground and fails to balance the budget by 2012.” “The President’s proposal cuts funding for Small Business Development Centers. My district has three of these centers in Bellingham, Mount Vernon and Everett, and they need every penny they can get to help small businesses grow and create jobs. The President also proposes eliminating technical assistance for the Microloan Program. Without technical assistance, small start-up companies that benefit from this program would have a harder time succeeding.” “Methamphetamine is a highly dangerous drug that is wreaking havoc on families and communities across our country, and methamphetamine use is on the rise. Communities and law enforcement in my district and across the country face this problem with urgency and commitment every day. Yet under the President’s proposal, local law enforcement would face cuts in funding for programs used to battle methamphetamine and bust drug trafficking rings.” “The President’s budget fails to recognize the debt we owe our men and women in uniform. Newly returning veterans are coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan every day, yet the President’s proposal would make it harder for some of them to get the health care they need and deserve. The President’s budget would establish an enrollment fee for some veterans entering the Veterans Administration system, while almost doubling their prescription drug co-pays from $8 to $15. Congress defeated a similar proposal last year, and I’ll fight to make sure we defeat it again this year.” “As Congress tackles the Fiscal Year 2008 budget process, I will work to make sure the budget we write is fiscally responsible and reflects the values and priorities of the 2nd Congressional district.” ###
02.01.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash) and Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA 2nd) announced that the U.S Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will open a new VA health clinic in Northwest Washington to serve veterans in a five county area. The VA aims to open a community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC) in Northwest Washington within 12 months. It will serve veterans in San Juan, Island, Whatcom, Skagit and northern Snohomish County. The VA is setting up a process to determine the clinic's exact location based on the local veterans population, access to transportation and other factors. In a letter to Murray and Larsen, Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Nicholson states that "the VISN [VA Northwest Network] has identified that the Mount Vernon area seems to be centrally located to improve access to care and reduce travel times in this 5-county area." "For years, Northwest veterans have faced tremendous barriers to the care they deserve," Murray said. "Now we're bringing the finest medical care in the country closer to their doors." "This is great news, and a long time coming," Larsen said. "Northwest Washington’s veterans have traveled too far, for too long, to get the health care they need and deserve. This clinic will bring veterans’ health care closer to veterans." Murray and Larsen have been pushing the VA for a new clinic for many years. Currently, local veterans have to spend hours in traffic to reach the VA medical center in Seattle. VA Secretary James Nicholson told Senator Murray and Rep. Larsen the news in a letter the day after Murray met with Nicholson to discuss the clinic and other veterans issues. Timeline 7/2002: Rep. Larsen introduces legislation H.R.5087 to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to implement a two-year pilot project for outpatient medical care in Northwest Washington. 9/04: Senator Murray and Rep. Larsen write to then VA Secretary Principi to advocate for a CBOC in Northwest Washington. 1/26/05: Senator Murray tells Secretary Nicholson at a hearing that a new clinic is needed in Northwest Washington. https://murray.senate.gov/news.cfm?id=230918 4/06: Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen work with VA Northwest Network to submit an application to the VA for a CBOC in Northwest Washington.7/06: During a visit to Bellingham, Secretary Nicholson makes an announcement suggesting that Northwest Washington will get a CBOC. 7/20/06: Murray presses Secretary Nicholson on the clinic's status at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing. https://murray.senate.gov/news.cfm?id=258987 7/30/06: Senator Murray inserts language into the FY 2007 Military Construction and VA Appropriations bill encouraging the VA to establish a clinic in Northwest Washington. 11/27/06: Senator Murray and Congressman Larsen write Secretary Nicholson to inquire about the status of Northwest Washington’s CBOC application. https://murray.senate.gov/veterans/nwvaclinic.pdf 1/30/07: Senator Murray meets with Secretary Nicholson and asks when the new clinic will be announced. 1/31/07: In a letter to Senator Murray and Rep. Larsen, Secretary Nicholson announces that a new clinic will be located in Mount Vernon and should be open in 12 months. # # #
01.31.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA) voted in favor of the Revised Continuing Appropriations Resolution for 2007 (H.J.Res.20) that passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 286 to 140. Larsen released the following statement: “This legislation is the next step in restoring fiscal responsibility to Congress. Democrats pledged a new direction in Congress, and we are delivering on that promise. During the first 100 hours, we have already passed important measures to help balance the budget. Today, we passed the continuing resolution, which funds key priorities for our communities, restores fiscal discipline, and cleans up the budget mess the last Congress left behind. “This essential bill increases funding for veterans’ health care, expands access to higher education by increasing the Pell Grant, and supports local law enforcement with needed Byrne-JAG grants as they combat methamphetamine and keep our communities safe. “I’m particularly pleased that this bill helps honor our commitment to veterans by increasing funding for veterans health care by $3.6 billion.” Next, the Senate will consider this resolution before it is signed into law. ###
01.30.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, in a House Transportation and Infrastructure Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee hearing on the Coast Guard Integrated Deepwater System (Deepwater), U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) called for answers on how the Coast Guard is going to fix procurement and oversight problems with the Deepwater program. In a report released on Monday, the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security concluded that the Coast Guard's newest cutter -- a key part of the Deepwater program -- suffers from serious design flaws, and that the Coast Guard has failed to provide sufficient oversight over Deepwater program contractors. “To many, the Deepwater program seems to be in deep water,” said Larsen. “While this program has had some significant successes, problems with procurement, contract management and oversight have led to cost over-runs and major structural deficiencies in maritime assets and therefore warrant attention.” The Deepwater program was developed to replace many of the Coast Guard’s operational assets (aircraft and cutters), some of which are over 60 years old. The program aims to replace or modernize approximately 90 ships and 200 aircraft used in deepwater missions, including drug interdiction operations, search and rescue, homeland security, and fisheries law enforcement. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Thad Allen, president of Northrop Grumman Ship Systems Phillip Teel and Leo Mackay, president of Integrated Coast Guard Systems testified before the subcommittee today. “The Deepwater program is our country’s first line of defense to securing our shores,” Larsen continued. “For the sake of taxpayers, we must get to the bottom of these troubles.” Larsen has served on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since he was first elected to Congress in 2000. This is the first Congress he will serve on the Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee. Larsen’s full statement to the Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee follows. Representative Rick Larsen Opening Statement Coast Guard and Maritime Subcommittee HearingOversight of the Coast Guard Integrated Deepwater SystemJanuary 30, 2007 “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. “As part of the Deepwater Program, three U.S. Coast Guard H-65 helicopters located in the Pacific Northwest have undergone successful engine overhauls. Five more in the Pacific Northwest will undergo the same overhaul. One of these helicopters participated in a successful rescue on the Olympic Peninsula that would not have been possible without the Deepwater investment. “Unfortunately, these kinds of success stories in the Deepwater program seem to be too few and far between. Problems with procurement, contract management and oversight have lead to cost over-runs, major structural deficiencies in maritime assets, and therefore warrant attention. “To many, the Deepwater program seems to be, well, in deepwater. “For the sake of taxpayers, we must get to the bottom of these troubles. The Deepwater program is our country’s first line of defense to securing our shores. I hope to get out of this hearing today an understanding of how the Coast Guard intends to fix the problems with Deepwater. Our intent is to ask the tough questions and get candid answers. “I have serious concerns over the ballooning price tag of implementing Deepwater and expect answers as to how the Coast Guard plans to control costs. I also expect an answer as to why the first two of eight National Security Cutters were built after the Coast Guard’s chief engineer found the structural design to have significant flaws. “As a new member of this subcommittee, I look forward to taking a closer look at Deepwater and how to fix its problems. We in Congress owe it to those who elected us to ensure their money is being spent wisely and that this important program is implemented effectively. “I look forward to our witness’ testimony. “Thank you.” ###
01.24.2007	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA -02) announced that he has secured a seat on the House Small Business Committee for the 110th Congress. Larsen will also maintain his permanent seats on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee (T&I). “One of my top priorities has always been to help create family wage jobs in our region,” said Larsen. “The vast majority of businesses in my district are small businesses, and I’m excited for the opportunity to broaden my work serving our small businesses and promoting economic development for Washington state. As a member of the Small Business Committee, I’ll work hard to improve access to capital, increase funding for small business development centers and find ways to increase export opportunities for small businesses in the Northwest.” The 110th Congress will be the first time Larsen has served on the House Small Business Committee. He has served on the House Armed Services Committee and the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee since he was first elected to Congress in 2000. “I’m looking forward to continuing to serve the military men and women in my district – including those serving at Naval Station Everett and Whidbey Naval Air Station – and across the country as a member of the House Armed Services Committee.” said Larsen. “It’s an honor to serve on this important committee as we address some of our nation’s most critical challenges, from making sure our women and men in the military get the resources they need, to working to secure nuclear material around the globe.” In this Congress, Larsen will serve on the Seapower and Expeditionary Forces Subcommittee and the Strategic Forces Subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee. “On the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I’ll keep bringing to the attention of Congress the transportation challenges unique to the Puget Sound area,” said Larsen, “I’m particularly excited to join the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee where I’ll serve as an advocate for our region’s vital maritime economy.” Larsen will serve on the Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee as well as the Aviation Subcommittee of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the 110th Congress. While Larsen secured slots on the House Armed Services Committee, the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Small Business Committee, his temporary waiver to serve on the House Agriculture Committee was not extended for the 110th Congress. Larsen was the first Member of Congress from western Washington to serve on the House Agriculture Committee in over 50 years. “I’m disappointed that I won’t be serving on the Agriculture Committee, but I’ll never stop fighting for Western Washington’s family farms and for Washington agriculture and I’m confident that I’ll keep delivering results for our region,” said Larsen. “Congressman Rick Larsen will continue to be a strong voice for agriculture and rural affairs, and I will continue to seek out his advice about the important issues affecting agriculture in the Pacific Northwest as we write the farm bill and address other important issues,” said Agriculture Committee Chairman Colin Peterson (D-MN) “I appreciate Congressman Larsen’s dedication to agriculture issues and know that he will continue to represent the state of Washington with distinction.” Larsen will continue to focus on agriculture issues as Co-chair of the House Dairy Farmers Caucus and as a member of the Specialty Crops Caucus and the House Hunger Caucus. ###
01.23.2007	Washington, D.C. - Tonight, U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (WA-02) released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “The American people want a new direction for our country. The Democrats have set America on a new course. Tonight, the President had the opportunity to join us. He did not take that opportunity.” “Tonight, the President had the chance to be bold. He didn’t take it.” “The President could have committed to work with Congress to bring real change for working families in this country. He didn’t do it.” “The President could have been bold in confronting global warming. He wasn’t. His remarks amounted to too little, too late.” “The American people have made it clear that they do not want an escalation of the Iraq war. Tonight, the president again made it clear that he has not heard us, that he does not understand our frustration and our concern. The President has promised us a new approach, but more troops does not equal a new way forward.” ###
01.18.2007	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) today released the following statement on the current situation in Iraq: “As recently as two months ago, I stated that the United States should remain in Iraq until our military had completed the training of Iraqi military forces. I no longer believe this approach will best help the United States take actions to keep us safe. As a result, I recently called for the unconditional partial withdrawal of U.S. military from Iraq. No longer should this partial withdrawal be conditioned upon the completion of Iraqi military training.” “This decision is difficult for me, but as a member of the Armed Services Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives, I have to consider how this administration's actions impact national security. The president's announcement to add 21,500 U.S. troops to Iraq is a step in the wrong direction. The American public does not want an escalation of the Iraq war, especially without an explanation of what we are trying to achieve. The president promised a new approach. More troops does not equal a new way forward.” “I have concluded that the United States has a choice: we can keep a lid on Iraq's civil war or we can devote enough time and attention to fighting terrorists wherever they are and save Afghanistan from slipping back to the bad days of Taliban rule. I choose the latter.” “In Iraq, we need to provide our military a strategy that is worthy of their individual actions and sacrifice. I propose the following: 1. The U.S. should complete training and equipping Iraqi military forces to fight a counterinsurgency campaign against the Iraqi-based insurgency. 2. The U.S. should embed available trainers and special operations personnel with Iraqi military forces to fight Al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI). 3. The U.S. should provide personnel to secure Iraq's borders to cut the flow of foreign fighters and weapons into Iraq. 4. The U.S. should immediately withdraw troops from Iraq not necessary for these missions for redeployment to other areas of need or send them home. 5. The U.S. should invest in a diplomatic surge in the Middle East engaging all countries, including Syria and Iran, and convene an international peace conference to end the civil war in Iraq. 6. The U.S. should loosen its visa policies for Iraqis seeking to come to the U.S.” “I have lost confidence in the Iraqi government to fulfill its commitments to the United States. I want the Bush administration to understand the frustration expressed in the last election. I want our women and men in the military to know we have a strategy that is worthy of their individual actions and sacrifice and that they will have the resources necessary to do their jobs. Most of all, I fear that the president's decisions have led us away from our greatest national security threat--fighting terrorists who will do us harm.”
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02) issued the following statement after voting no on the fifth short-term Continuing Resolution (CR) of the 2018 budget year in the House of Representatives. The bill provides full-year funding to the Department of Defense, but only short-term funding for the rest of the federal government: “I voted no on today’s Continuing Resolution because Congressional Republicans have once again shown their unwillingness to work with Democrats to pass a long-term spending bill and address important issues like immigration and infrastructure. “Operating under short-term CRs is not the way to run the U.S. Government. It is time to pass a bipartisan long-term budget that addresses critical issues like infrastructure, veterans’ benefits, national health emergencies like the opioid crisis, and improving job skills through apprenticeships. “Washingtonians deserve better than partisan gridlock. The American people expect more than a failure to commit to long-term solutions on the education, health and economic security of working families.” ###
