03.12.2019	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force, joined with Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Nydia Velasquez (NY-07), and Yvette Clarke (NY-09) to introduce H.R. 6, Dream and Promise Act, which includes protections for Dreamers, as well as Temporary Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) recipients. “What has made our country the shining beacon of hope around the world is our generosity and our compassion for those who seek a better life in America. Donald Trump’s administration has reversed of decades of U.S. humanitarian and immigration policy. America once opened its doors to these immigrants escaping harm in their home countries, and today we slam the door in their faces. “The Dream and Promise Act is an important step to addressing our nation’s broken immigration system. Instead of sending these intelligent, hard-working Dreamers back to countries they barely even know, we are giving them an opportunity to continue contributing here in America by providing them with a pathway to citizenship. Through the Temporary Protected Status and the Deferred Enforced Departure programs, the United States has lived up to its role as a humanitarian leader in our hemisphere. TPS and DED have helped hundreds of thousands of immigrant families fleeing from some of the world’s most dangerous countries.”
03.05.2019	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a senior member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, today introduced Protecting Our Widows and Widowers in Retirement (POWR) Act: “The death of a spouse is devastating, and the financial distress of also losing their income only adds to the pain," said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The POWR Act ensures that in their darkest hours, those on Social Security will still be able to have some financial security and peace of mind. Instead of losing half of their monthly household income, seniors will be able to keep a little more of their combined benefits. After a lifetime of hard work, seniors deserve to retire with dignity in their later years. And losing your spouse should not also lead to financial ruin.” Nancy Altman, Founding Co-Director of Social Security Works – “Among Social Security's most important protections are the monthly survivor annuities, currently paid to over four million widows and widowers. But these benefits are very modest and often represent a drastic drop in family income. Women and men who have just lost their spouses should not also face a substantial loss of income that puts them at risk of poverty. The POWR act takes the important step of increasing survivors' benefits so that widows and widowers can live with dignity." Tracey Gronniger, Directing Attorney, Economic Security, Justice in Aging – “Justice in Aging supports the Protecting Our Widows and Widowers in Retirement (POWR) Act. Losing a spouse is difficult. We should not make it more difficult by forcing men and women to take a significant cut in their income when their spouse passes away. The POWR Act keeps needed Social Security income in the hands of widows and widowers who depend on those benefits to maintain their economic security as they age.” Background According to the National Academy of Social Insurance, women suffer a greater financial hit following the loss of a loved one. The NASI has said, “The benefits are important to women because wives tend to earn less than their husbands and they typically outlive their husbands – both because women live longer than men, on average, and because wives tend to be a few years younger than their husbands.” The average widow sees a 33 to 50 percent reduction in Social Security benefits after the death of her spouse. However, on average, an elderly person needs 79 percent of the income received while both were alive to maintain their standard of living. The POWR Act which would create an alternative benefit equal to 75 percent of the combined income received while both spouses were alive. Co-Sponsors Rep. Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9), Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rep. Vincente Gonzalez (TX-15) Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4),Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Rep. Mark Pocan (WI-2), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL-24) Congresswoman Sánchez first introduced this legislation in 2016. Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and has previously served as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus in the 115th Congress and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
02.15.2019	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on the president’s unlawful emergency declaration: “An unlawful, unilateral decree from President Trump does not constitute a national emergency and seriously undermines the rule of law in this country. The United States was founded on the principle of separation of powers. The Founders feared the corrosive effects of unlimited power concentrated within the executive branch upon our democracy. That is why they specifically established Congress’s authority to collect and appropriate taxpayer money. “After three weeks of negotiations, Congress intentionally blocked taxpayer dollars from going towards President Trump’s wasteful and ineffective border wall. By declaring a national emergency over a nonexistent crisis to build a wall along the southern border, President Trump is attempting to circumvent the will of Congress and the people we represent. That is not how our system of government works. “The president simply doesn’t understand checks and balances. He is defiant and angry that the Constitution does not give him unlimited power to do whatever he wants. The American people need their Congress to stand strong and reject this abuse of executive power. If we fail to take appropriate action, our democracy will be weaker because some choose to put party ahead of the American people.”
02.14.2019	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force, released the following statement on the passage of legislation to keep the federal government open: “The American people expect Congress to make tough choices and get its work done to keep the federal government open. After a 35-day government shutdown that left more than 800,000 federal employees and federal contractors out of work and unpaid, we simply could not allow the Trump administration to once again plunge those families back into the depths of uncertainty. Tonight, through the strong leadership of House Democrats, Congress has passed a bipartisan, bicameral compromise that keeps the federal government functioning and prevents taxpayer dollars from going towards President Trump’s wasteful and ineffective border wall. “I am deeply disappointed that President Trump and Senate Republicans blocked Democratic efforts to include stronger limits on Trump’s mass deportation and detention force. That is simply unacceptable. I, along with my colleagues in the Hispanic Caucus, will continue to do everything we can to hold the Trump administration accountable for its abuses as we work towards passing comprehensive immigration reform. “While this agreement falls far short of everything I would want it to include, I strongly believe that our government works best when Congress works together to build broad bipartisan consensus; even if I wish change and progress would happen faster. For eight years, I watched as the Freedom Caucus held this country hostage in the name of ideological purity. We cannot allow the perfect to be the enemy of progress. “Our country has so many important issues that need to be addressed. From passing comprehensive immigration reform to paycheck fairness to a robust bipartisan infrastructure investment package, the American people need this Congress to work together to address the challenges that they face every day. I hope that Congress can now turn its focus to the multitude of priorities we all care deeply about.”
02.04.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Immigration Task Force, today announced that she will be taking Diana Laureano Leon of Montebello, CA as her guest to the State of the Union: Rep. Linda Sánchez “I am pleased to welcome Diana to the U.S. Capitol for the State of the Union. It is important for President Trump to see the faces of Dreamers who have lived in the United States almost their entire lives, have integrated into our communities, and have become a part of our American fabric. Dreamers like Diana symbolize the American spirit. Her life’s story is about perseverance and hard work. “Diana is a leader and advocate for the undocumented community and, like hundreds of thousands of other Dreamers all across the country, deserves the opportunity to have a legal path towards citizenship. Her presence at the State of the Union is an important reminder that America has always been a land of opportunity for all who want to work hard and contribute to the success of our country. It is vital that we never forget our shared core values, especially as some politicians try to use hate and lies to divide us.” Diana Laureano Leon “I came to the U.S. when I was about 4,5 years old. I grew up in a low-income community filled with violence and from early on knew of my undocumented status. At a young age, I was not aware of what being undocumented meant, but little by little I became aware of the boundaries that came with being undocumented. I knew I was limited on what I could do and came to believe that college would never be an option for me due to my status and family income. “Still, I had become extremely passionate about helping others because of everything I had gone through growing up and all that I had seen affecting our world. I became heavily involved in community service throughout high school and it became my passion; however, it was not until college that I became more involved in social justice and advocacy. “Growing up, I often felt alone and restricted on what I could do because of my status. I was made to believe that politics was of importance to me because I could not even vote. I was made to believe that college was inaccessible. For so long, I was made to believe that my voice did not matter because of my status, but I found my voice when I began to truly see the social injustice that plagued the world. “In college, I discovered that my voice mattered. I discovered I could help out our community not just by giving back, but also through advocacy. I became heavily involved in political advocacy because I realized how those who were voted in to represent the people, never listened to the people. I decided to become president of my undocumented club at Rio Hondo, Students Without Borders, then Legislative Affairs Chair of Associated Students of Rio Hondo, a steering member of the California Dream Network, and Student Trustee of Rio Hondo College in order to further advocate for the undocumented community.” Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and has previously served as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus in the 115th Congress and the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. ###
01.29.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Congressman Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Congressman David Cicilline (RI-01), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (CA-18), and Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) announced they are introducing the Restoring the Public Trust Act of 2019. The bill package incorporates a number of pieces of legislation aimed at strengthening ethical standards in the federal government to prevent government corruption and ensure accountability for the American public. Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez is the original author of the RIGGED Act which is included as part of the Restoring the Public Trust Act of 2019. Upon introduction, the Members said: “Trump and his administration have made a mockery of government ethics, demonstrating the weak spots in our current laws. He has normalized unethical behavior in a way that was once unthinkable, proving that we need stronger ethics laws. The damage that Trump has done to the public’s confidence in its government won’t be easy to fix but this bill ensures that those gaping holes in our anticorruption and ethics laws are addressed. In doing so, we will course correct our government to ensure it is working for the people, which is a key Democratic priority this Congress. The Restoring the Public Trust Act helps us do the critical work of rebuilding the public’s faith in government.” The Restoring the Public Trust Act is endorsed By: American Oversight; Campaign for Accountability, Common Cause and Public Citizen. The bill will include the following provisions: TITLE I: Draining the Swamp The SWAMP Act: The President must reimburse the Treasury Department for taxpayer dollars spent at properties in which he has a financial stake, like Mar-a-Lago. The SWAMP FLYERS Act: Prohibits the use of federal funds for the official travel of a senior political appointee on a non-commercial, private, or chartered flight unless they certify – under penalty of perjury – that no alternative flight was available. The E. Scott Pruitt Accountability for Government Officials Act: Creates a federal criminal penalty for use of public office for private gain, endorsement of products, or aiding family and friends for corrupt purposes. CORRUPT Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Office of Government Ethics a report on the amount expended by that agency to any property owned by the President or his family. RIGGED Act: Makes the federal nepotism laws applicable to the Executive Office of the President. DRAIN the Swamp Act: The head of each agency must submit to the Comptroller General an assessment of any regulatory conflict of interest pertaining to the President and various senior advisors that might arise from an agency’s rule. TITLE II: Rooting Out Conflicts of Interest CLEARANCES Act (COMMONSENSE LEGISLATION ENSURING ACCOUNTABILITY BY REPORTING ACCESS OF NON-CLEARED EMPLOYEES TO SECRETS): The White House must report to Congress when it grants a security clearance in contravention of an unfavorable clearance recommendation, in part to prevent dangerous and heavily indebted individuals from entering the most sensitive positions in government. Blind Trusts: Requires members of the President’s Cabinet and certain senior White House advisors to place stocks, bonds, commodities futures, other forms of securities in a blind trust during their tenure. Preventing domestic emoluments: Prohibits any business interest owned in whole or in part by the President or Vice President, his/her spouse, or immediate family member from doing business with the federal government. Presidential Tax Transparency Act: Requires all candidates for President to release their tax returns for the past three years. No more shadow White House meetings: Require the White House to maintain a publicly accessible website that includes data on visitor logs. TITLE III: Strengthening Our Inspectors General Protecting our inspectors general: Requires notification to Congress of a president’s decision to place an agency inspector general – whose job is to root out waste, fraud, and corruption – on leave or to change their status in any way. Filling empty inspector general positions: Requires the President report to Congress if he or she fails to nominate an Inspector General for a given agency, including a target date for making a formal recommendation. ###
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on President Trump’s misleading address to the nation on Tuesday night: “The President and Administration officials have consistently used fear and misinformation around immigration as a political weapon to divide our country. President Trump’s address to the nation manufactured a fake crisis in the hopes of using precious taxpayer money to build an ineffective wall along our country’s southern border. He has pushed us into a government shutdown that has forced hundreds of thousands of federal employees, many of whom are essential to our national security, to work without pay. All while demanding a ransom of $5.7 billion to build an inadequate wall that will not make us ‘safer.’ “Continuing to repeat false claims about the current immigration situation does not make them true. There is no crisis along our southern border. It is appalling that the President believes that he can fool the American people with misinformation and fearmongering. “Democrats agree that we must secure our borders. However, a wall is not the answer. We need comprehensive immigration reform along with effective border security to keep our nation safe. Wasting billions of taxpayer dollars on a wall will not fix a broken immigration system or stop illegal drugs from entering our country. “Americans deserve to have their country back and working for them. That is why House Democrats this week will vote on bipartisan legislation to re-open our government. We will not fund Donald Trump’s expensive and ineffective wall. President Trump must stop holding the American people and their government hostage, and he must work with Democrats to re-open the government.” Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and served as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus in the 115th Congress and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in the 114th Congress. ###
12.13.2018	Washington, DC – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on an agreement with Speaker-Designate Nancy Pelosi on leadership terms for the House Democratic Caucus beginning in the 116th Congress: “After productive discussions with Leader Pelosi about the future of our Caucus and its leadership, I will support Nancy Pelosi for Speaker of the House in the 116th Congress. “I am pleased that we have reached an agreement which creates lasting institutional change for the Caucus. Leader Pelosi has committed to bringing our term-limit proposal up for discussion and a vote by the Caucus early in the 116th Congress. She has also committed to abide by the term-limit formula regardless of a vote. I thank Nancy for her leadership and look forward to working together to deliver results for America’s hard-working families. I firmly believe that the reforms we have advocated for will create advancement opportunities for the next generation of Democratic leaders and will strengthen our Caucus.” Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus during the 115th Congress.
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38 today released the following statement on the election of Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-05) to be the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus for the 116th Congress: “I congratulate Congresswoman Katherine Clark on her election to be the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus for the 116th Congress. She is a thoughtful leader in our Caucus and has worked tirelessly to help Democrats win back the majority in the U.S. House of Representatives. The voices of more women at the leadership table will be essential as our Caucus works to enact our agenda to help rebuild and strengthen America’s middle class. “Under the leadership of Chairman Hakeem Jeffries and Vice Chair Katherine Clark, our Democratic Caucus will move forward, united behind our shared objective of helping working families succeed. It has never been more important for Democrats to accomplish our goals of making health care more affordable, investing in our crumbling infrastructure, and passing comprehensive immigration reform. I will do everything I can to support Hakeem and Katherine as they undertake these important roles on behalf of our Caucus.” Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus during the 115th Congress.
11.29.2018	Washington, DC – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38 today released the following statement on the election of Rep. Hakeem Jeffries to be the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus for the 116th Congress: “I congratulate my friend Hakeem Jeffries on his election to be the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus for the 116th Congress and I look forward to working with him to advance our Democratic agenda. Americans decisively declared that they want their government in Washington working for the people. Our attention for the next two years must be on delivering for the American people. “Our Democratic Caucus remains united and strong. We are committed to helping every working family achieve their American Dream. I thank Hakeem and Barbara Lee for running a spirited and positive campaign focused on the issues Americans care the most about. I am committed to doing everything I can to support Hakeem and put the Democratic Caucus in the strongest position as we fight to protect the majority and maintain it for years to come.” Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and served as the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus for the 115th Congress.
10.06.2018	Washington, DC - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today released the following statement on the Senate’s vote to confirm Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the United States Supreme Court: “Typically, the judicial confirmation process is about learning more about where a nominee stands on the important issues that will affect our daily lives. However, what I, along with the rest of the country, have learned since Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination in July is he simply lacks the temperament to serve on the Supreme Court. Never before have I felt so strongly that a nominee to the Supreme Court is unfit to serve. “It has been made clear to millions of Americans that the Republican Senate will always put politics and party ahead of doing what is best for our country. Throughout the confirmation process, Republicans in the Senate were dedicated to putting Judge Brett Kavanaugh on the highest court in the land, no matter what skeletons were uncovered. Today’s vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court marks a dark day for the Senate and our country. “But with today’s vote by the Senate to confirm President Trump’s nominee, the entire country must hope that Justice Kavanaugh’s better angels will prevail. The responsibility of putting our Constitution and the values enshrined within it ahead of politics now falls squarely on Justice Kavanaugh. We can only wait and see.”
09.28.2018	Washington, DC -House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today gave the following statement during debate on the House Republican Tax Scam 2.0 legislation: “I stand here saddened but not shocked at the I responsibility of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle I guess their giveaway to the ultra-wealthy one enough last time around so they've come back for round two, a fake tax reform 2.0. When the bill nor new gimmick eventually comes due, I'm terrified Republicans will pay for it by gutting Social Security and Medicare two earned benefit programs on which my constituents rely. “I've heard a lot of rhetoric about how today's bill will help the middle class but the only thing that today's legislation guarantees is adding at least $3 trillion more to the deficit over just a period of 10 years. And who picks up the tab? Middle class Americans, that's who. Working families who are saving for retirement or putting their kids through school. “I urge my colleagues to vote down this terrible bill, let common sense reign.”
09.27.2018	Washington, DC -House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Mark Pocan (D-WI) along with 29 original co-sponsors today introduced the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2018: Vice Chair Linda Sánchez:“Working Americans pay into Social Security with every paycheck. Social Security is the bedrock of the American retirement system. It ensures that after a lifetime of hard work, Americans can retire with dignity and some financial security. The Strengthening Social Security Act improves on Social Security’s promise and will ensure that the system will be available for generations to come. I am proud to join with Rep. Mark Pocan to introduce this important legislation that will benefit the lives of millions of Americans.” Progressive Caucus Co-Chair Mark Pocan: “Social Security is a critical part of many Americans’ financial plans, yet it is increasingly falling short for the millions of seniors who have paid into it and rely on it for a safe and secure retirement. Through the Strengthening Social Security Act, we can ensure that this program meets the needs of America’s seniors and allows them to live with dignity and security when they exit the workforce. Congress must take steps to modernize Social Security, and through this legislation, we can give seniors the benefits they deserve while also making the program solvent for future generations.” "The Strengthening Social Security Act would improve the lives of tens of millions of seniors and Americans with disabilities. Not only does the bill increase Social Security's modest benefits, it also ensures that future cost of living adjustments will keep up with rising health care costs and other expenses that beneficiaries face. Social Security Works enthusiastically endorses this legislation." - Alex Lawson, Executive Director, Social Security Works “The National Committee supports the provisions included in your bill, and proudly endorses the ‘Strengthening Social Security Act of 2018.’ Your bill represents a bold step on behalf of seniors and all Americans by strengthening and safeguarding Social Security for current and future beneficiaries while improving the adequacy of the benefits it provides.” - National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare BACKGROUND The Strengthening Social Security Act will increase benefits, ensure the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) adequately reflects the cost of living, and improve the financial condition of the Trust Fund. Specifically, this bill: Increases the formula factor for the first bend point to 95% over 5 years. Increases the first bend point by 15%. Replaces CPI-W with CPI-E for the purpose of calculating COLA’s. Phases out the taxable cap of $118,500. Increases widow/ers benefits to the greater of 75% of combined benefits, or the Primary Insurance Amount. Holds SSI recipients harmless for any increase in benefits enacted through this bill. Through these changes, beneficiaries can expect to see an increase in monthly benefits. While more needs to be done to preserve and protect Social Security for future generations, these changes are an important first step and will give seniors the peace of mind they deserve. Original Co-Sponsors Rep. Michael Capuano (D-MA), Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA), Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN), Rep. Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Rep. Bobby Scott (D-VA), Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA), Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL), Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ)
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez today joined 65 Democratic Members of Congress to send the following statement to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell: "Once again, we are urgently requesting that Senate leadership postpone any proceedings on Judge Brett Kavanaugh's nomination to the Supreme Court until a thorough FBI investigation into the multiple allegations of sexual assault and misconduct has been completed. "We have heard credible allegations from three women - Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Ramirez, and Julie Swetnick - who bravely shared their traumatizing experiences of sexual assault and misconduct at the hands of Judge Kavanaugh. "We urge you to give these allegations the respect and seriousness they deserve. Anything short of that is an insult to women and girls everywhere and sends a chilling message that survivors should not come forward because they will not be believed. "In 1991, the Senate disrespected Anita Hill, questioned her credibility, and discounted her experiences. Now, 27 years later, Senate leadership has an opportunity to do better. "These courageous women have nothing to gain by speaking their truth and every reason to stay silent and avoid the harassment and death threats they are currently receiving for coming forward. "Survivors deserve to be heard and believed. As a lifetime appointment to our nation's highest court is on the line, we implore you to abandon the artificial timeline you have created, support these women who have come forward, and do your duty to the American people by conducting a fair and balanced nomination process. "Please remember that the women and girls of the world are watching and looking to you for leadership. We hope you will rise to the occasion." This statement was also signed by: Reps. Lois Frankel, Brenda Lawrence, Jackie Speier, Barbara Lee, Diana DeGette, Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer, Alma S. Adams, Karen Bass, Joyce Beatty, Earl Blumenauer, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Suzanne Bonamici, Madeleine Bordallo, Anthony Brown, Julia Brownley, Cheri Bustos, G. K. Butterfield, Joaquin Castro, Katherine Clark, Gerry Connolly, Elijah E. Cummings, Susan Davis, Rosa DeLauro, Val Demings, Debbie Dingell, John Garamendi, Raul Grijalva, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Colleen Hanabusa, Jared Huffman, Pramila Jayapal, Robin Kelly, Ro Khanna, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Ann McLane Kuster, Al Lawson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Ted W. Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Nita M. Lowey, Ben Ray Lujan, Carolyn Maloney, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, Grace Meng, Gwen S. Moore, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Scott Peters, Chellie Pingree, David Price, Mike Quigley, Jamie Raskin, Jacky Rosen, Dutch Ruppersberger, Jan Schakowsky, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Terri Sewell, Carol Shea-Porter, Adam Smith, Mark Takano, Dina Titus, Norma Torres, Nydia Velazquez.
08.02.2018	Norwalk, CA - House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced it would attempt to block states like California from adopting stricter vehicle fuel-efficiency standards: “The Trump administration’s weakening of fuel economy standards is yet another example of Republican efforts to undermine the fight against climate change. As someone who remembers LA’s smog alerts, I don’t think anyone wants to return to those days when the air was so thick and dirty you could touch it. “This should not be a partisan issue. We all have an interest in protecting the air we breathe, the water we drink, and the planet we live on. “Raising fuel economy standards was a major effort to combat climate change and air pollution by curbing vehicle emissions. The current rules represent one of the single largest efforts ever undertaken by any nation to reduce these harmful emissions. “Automobiles are one of the largest sources of greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. I am proud that California has been a leader in the fight to protect our environment and will continue to lead where the federal government shirks its responsibility.”
07.31.2018	Washington, DC – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez led a letter with 47 bipartisan Members of Congress who represent Los Angeles County, Chicago, Philadelphia, New York City, and Houston to Centers for Disease Control Director Robert Redfield urging the CDC to ensure that all jurisdictions pre-approved to receive public health crisis funding are able to apply for additional funding to address the nation’s opioid epidemic. When Congress passed the Fiscal Year 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, it made additional funds available to address the opioid crisis. Despite being pre-approved to receive direct funding in the event of a public health crisis such as the opioid epidemic, the public health departments for Los Angeles County, Chicago, Philadelphia, New York City, and Houston – the largest cities and counties in the country – were not permitted to apply for funding. The opioid epidemic claims the lives of about 115 Americans each day and overdose deaths are climbing. Under-resourcing some of the largest cities and counties in the country during this crisis will limit their capacity to save lives. The letter underscores Congressional intent to fund these jurisdictions and asks the CDC to ensure that all pre-approved jurisdictions, including the public health departments of these cities and counties, are eligible to apply for these funds and future funds for public health crises. Co-signers include: Reps. Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Ryan A. Costello (R-PA), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Al Green (D-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Peter T. King (R-NY), Steve Knight (R-CA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Daniel W. Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Ed R. Royce (R-CA), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Maxine Waters (D-CA) The text of the letter: July 30, 2018 Dr. Robert R. Redfield Director Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329 Dear Director Redfield: We write to express our concern that the public health departments of the large metropolitan areas we represent, including Los Angeles County, Chicago, Houston, New York City, and Philadelphia, were excluded from receiving additional funds to address the opioid epidemic, despite having been pre-approved for funding under a public health crisis funding mechanism. At a time when we are losing approximately 115 Americans each day to the epidemic, our public health departments must be able to access the resources they need to confront the crisis. To ensure rapid disbursement of funds in a public health emergency, CDC issued a Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for “Cooperative Agreement for Emergency Response: Public Health Crisis Response” last fall. Under this mechanism, eligible jurisdictions could be pre-approved to receive funds in the event of a public health crisis. Our local health departments were eligible to apply for pre-approval, along with the 50 states, 8 territories, and Washington, DC. All jurisdictions, including our public health departments, were granted approval and were put on an “approved but unfunded” list until funding is available to address public health crises. We approved additional funding for the CDC to fight the opioid epidemic and scale up prevention activities in the FY 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act and Accompanying Report because we wanted states, territories, and the large cities and counties to be able to fight this epidemic most effectively. All approved jurisdictions under the Crisis NOFO mechanism, except our public health departments, are now eligible to receive a portion of this new funding. It is our understanding that there are no other forthcoming funding opportunities in FY 2018 under which our public health departments could receive these funds. Together, we represent the metropolitan areas covered by five of the largest cities and counties in the country, all of which have been hard-hit by the opioid epidemic, which demands our continued attention and action. In 2016 alone, drug overdoses claimed the lives of more than 63,000 Americans. Nearly two-thirds of these deaths involved prescription or illicit opioids, with heroin and synthetic opioids like fentanyl and carfentanyl driving overdose deaths by illicit opioids. Local public health authorities are on the front-lines of public health crises, and the opioid epidemic is no exception. With their deep knowledge of the diverse communities we serve and the health challenges they face, our public health departments are well-equipped to ensure funding is executed efficiently and directly to reach those most in need. In many cases, our metropolitan areas have gone above and beyond to incubate some of the most promising and effective responses to the epidemic. Los Angeles County distributed safe prescribing guidelines on the administration of pain medication in emergency departments and urgent care centers. Chicago created pharmaceutical representative licenses and Philadelphia made naloxone available in libraries. New York City created a new nonfatal overdose response system and will distribute 100,000 naloxone kits citywide annually. Our public health departments are creating and implementing best practices and saving lives. It was our intent, when our chamber approved an increase in appropriations to CDC to combat the opioid epidemic, that pre-approved jurisdictions, including these large urban public health departments, would be eligible to receive direct funding to fight the opioid crisis. Without direct funding for our public health departments, our cities and counties will be limited in their capacity to address the opioid epidemic and the health needs of our large and complex populations—when overdose deaths are still climbing. We respectfully urge you to ensure that pre-approved, directly-funded urban public health departments are eligible to receive public health crisis funding under this and future public health crisis funding announcements. Sincerely, Rep. Linda T. Sánchez represents California’s 38th Congressional District. She is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and serves as the Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. ###
07.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Reps. David McKinley (R-WV), and Donald Norcross (D-NJ) today introduced legislation to designate July 10, 2018, as Journeyman Lineman Recognition Day. Twenty-five Members of Congress have co-sponsored the resolution. “Every town in America benefits tremendously from the work Journeyman Linemen do,” said Vice Chair Sánchez, member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 441. “These brave workers put themselves in harm’s way to serve their communities and ensure that everyone has reliable access to electricity. Risking perilous heights and energized electric lines, they represent a crucial and too often forgotten part of our nation’s infrastructure. This resolution honors their work and sacrifice in the development of our country. Every American should recognize the hard labor Journeyman Linemen do to power our homes, schools, businesses, and keep our economy running.” “America’s linemen put themselves in danger every day to ensure that we have access to reliable electricity for our homes, hospitals, and businesses. These are often the forgotten men and women who power one of our nation’s most critical infrastructure components,” said Rep. McKinley. “It’s an honor to join with Congresswoman Sánchez on this resolution to honor these brave workers who put their lives on the line to serve our communities and the American people.” “As an electrician who worked for years on the tops of bridges and refineries, I know first-hand the dangers facing Journeyman Linemen. These hard-working men and women keep our country running every day. Plus, they are quick to respond when called upon to get the power back on, which is essential after natural disasters, like recent Hurricanes Maria, Irma, Harvey and Sandy,” said Rep. Norcross, a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and an IBEW electrician. “Journeyman Linemen are the unsung heroes and I’m proud to support this effort in Congress to acknowledge their hard work.” “Our union’s founder Henry Miller devoted his life to helping his fellow linemen,” said IBEW International President Lonnie R. Stephenson. “To honor today’s linemen each year on the day of his death is a true tribute to the sacrifices he made on behalf of electrical workers everywhere.” Co-sponsors include: Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Nanette Barragán (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Susan DelBene (D-WA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Henry “Hank” Johnson (D-GA), Walter B. Jones Jr. (R-NC), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), and Don Young (R-AK). Background: July 10 was selected as National Journeyman Lineman Day to honor a Journeyman Lineman leader, Henry Miller. The date of July 10th was selected as a tribute to Henry Miller, the first elected president and founding member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). Today it has grown to be one of the largest and most diverse unions in the country. Henry Miller began his career as a water boy on a government telegraph project in Texas at the age of 14. Years later, while working as a lineman, Miller became acutely aware of the dangerous conditions and subpar wages these workers faced. He traveled across the country to organize fellow linemen, and when the IBEW was formed in 1891, his peers chose him to be their leader. Unfortunately, his life was cut short on July 10, 1896 while working to solve a power outage in Washington, DC. Vice Chair Sánchez is a member of the IBEW Local 441 and former labor lawyer. She is a founding member and Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus. ###
06.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Janus v. AFSCME. Rep. Linda Sánchez is a card-carrying member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 441 and former labor lawyer: “The Supreme Court’s highly partisan decision today will dramatically erode the efficacy of unions representing public sector workers across the country. By requiring unions to represent everyone in a collective bargaining unit without ensuring fair contributions for that representation, unions will be forced to do more with much less—to the detriment of those they represent. This misguided decision will have devastating long-term consequences for hardworking Americans. “During the 20th century, labor unions helped build a strong and thriving middle-class. Unions have led the fight for safer working conditions and better wages and benefits; giving workers a voice and a seat at the table in their workplaces. “The Supreme Court’s decision in Janus takes a sledgehammer to America’s economic foundation that was laid down brick by brick by unions. The decision today is the latest blow in a decades-long, nationwide effort by conservatives to bust unions that advocate for workers and protect them from employer abuses. It is a sad day for our country. “The effort to fight for and alongside hardworking Americans will go on. Democrats will continue to push for legislation that strengthens the rights of workers and ensures they have a strong voice at the bargaining table because we know that workers and their families are stronger when they are able to organize and fight for better wages.”
06.18.2018	Norwalk, CA – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on the Trump Administration’s family separation policy: “I am appalled that the United States – the beacon of hope across the globe – is today ripping immigrant families apart. As the daughter of immigrants and as a human being, my heart aches to see the anguish of these families. I am disgusted that my government is responsible for this abhorrent policy. “The Trump Administration has weaponized a parent’s worst nightmare – the fear of separating mothers and fathers from their children. This is the type of policy more commonly found in the regimes of America’s enemies – and it is shameful and inhumane. Separating families is simply un-American. “As long as tearing immigrant families apart is the official policy of the United States government, we can no longer proudly proclaim ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free.’ President Donald Trump and his administration started this policy and they have the power to end it immediately. “If Congressional Republicans in Congress fail to stand up to the president, they will be complicit in this historic blunder. Congress must stand united to say definitively to the world that President Trump’s choice to separate families does not represent America’s values. We must put an end to the policy of family separation and reunite these children with their parents before it causes irreparable harm to their health and development.” ###
06.04.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda T. Sánchez, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and Vice Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus issued the following statement after the Supreme Court narrowly ruled in favor of a baker who refused to make a wedding cake for a gay couple: “Today’s narrow Supreme Court decision in the Masterpiece Cakeshop Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, although disappointing, still acknowledges the rights and protections LGBTQ people have under the Constitution of this country,” said Rep. Sánchez. “We live in a society where freedom of speech is a hard-fought right, and open discourse is encouraged. However, discrimination of any kind is unacceptable and we must work diligently to stop even its most subtle manifestations. “This case ultimately sheds light on the difficult realities members of the LGBTQ community face every day. We must remain steadfast in the fight for a more inclusive and equal society. Our road to full equality is far from over, but if we remain committed to this journey, we will reach our goal. That’s why we should act now and pass the Equality Act to finally give LGBTQ people basic protections against discrimination, no matter where they reside in our country.” ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today introduced an amendment to H.R. 5861, that would double funding for the Child Care Entitlement to States (CCES) program. This critical program provides funding for states to spend on quality child care for parents who receive Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) so that more workers can balance the dual responsibilities of work and caring for their families. The Ways and Means Committee Republicans blocked the Sánchez amendment. “If we want to get individuals who are down on their luck back to work, we need to provide them with tools that help them find and keep a job, and earn better wages,” Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez said about her amendment. “Families that can’t afford child care, also can’t afford to stop working. We need to make a responsible investment to help hard-working families get back into the workforce and ensure that children have quality child care. My amendment would provide $5.8 billion in funding, to enable hundreds of thousands of additional families to receive child care and allow those parents to get back in the workforce.” In 2016, 92% of TANF families were single-parent households. The Sánchez Amendment doubles funding for the Child Care Entitlement to States (CCES) program. The CCES program distributes mandatory funding for states to spend on quality child care for TANF recipients in compliance with Child Care Development Block Grant rules and quality standards. Child care costs have skyrocketed in recent years, costing families over $10,000 per year on average. Because of this heavy burden, many families face the impossible decision of choosing between working and caring for their child. ###
05.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Peter Roskam (IL-06), Congressman Raul Ruiz (CA-36), and Congressman John Shimkus (IL-15), this week introduced H.R. 5725 The Benefit Evaluation of Safe Treatment (BEST) Act of 2018. This vital legislation directs the Department of Health and Human Services to review and submit to Congress a report on the extent to which our nation’s Medicare Advantage plans offer benefits designed to treat or prevent substance use disorders. Millions of Americans have been touched by the country’s opioid crisis, and sadly older adults are not immune to the scourge of opioid addiction. Though not frequently discussed, the opioid epidemic is a significant and growing problem among America’s Medicare population. Older Americans have a rapidly growing prevalence of opioid use disorders and opioid-related hospitalizations. “The Benefit Evaluation of Safe Treatment Act of 2018 should be part of any broad, bipartisan approach to address the nation’s opioid epidemic,” said Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez. “The BEST Act directs HHS to study and report back to Congress on the supplemental benefits Medicare Advantage plans offer with respect to substance use disorder services. The study produced by this legislation will help inform policymakers as to what extent benefits designed to treat or prevent substance use disorders are offered by those plans. I’m proud to work with my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Ways and Means Committee to introduce the BEST Act, to ultimately help older adults get the behavioral health services they need.” “Severe pain is one of the most common reasons people are prescribed opioids. More than 200 million opioid prescriptions are written in the United States each year and opioid use disorders are rapidly growing among Medicare Beneficiaries,” said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Peter Roskam. “Ensuring access to alternative, non- opioid treatments is the first step to addressing severe addiction and pain. This bill will help identify the extent to which these treatments are covered outside of traditional Medicare coverage and encourage Medicare Advantage plans to continue to explore coverage for these new alternatives.” "Older Americans have significant and unique risks associated with opioid use disorders and yet oftentimes face significant barriers to getting the care they need,” Congressman Raul Ruiz said. “I am proud to co-author this bipartisan bill that will take the first critical steps towards ensuring seniors with Medicare Advantage have access to the best mental health and addiction treatment programs available." “The opioid epidemic has impacted Americans of all ages,” said Congressman John Shimkus. “This legislation will help ensure seniors have access to a broad range of Medicare benefits and supplemental services necessary to combat addiction.” The BEST Act would ensure that lawmakers have the information they need to understand the nature of supplemental benefits related to substance use disorders provided by private Medicare plans. The report produced by HHS will assist lawmakers in spotlighting best practices and ultimately help lawmakers encourage the adoption of such benefits in additional plans.
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) today released the following statement on the announcement by President Donald Trump that he will withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran: “The president’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement makes our country less safe and creates greater uncertainty in the Middle East region. This reckless action hurts America’s credibility with the rest of the world and further isolates the United States from our European allies. Only by working with our global partners can we prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. “The United States must remain strongly committed to stopping the advancement of Iran’s nuclear weapons and further development of its ballistic missile program. We cannot allow Iran to continue its activities to destabilize the region. The United States must work in partnership with our allies in Europe and the Middle East to keep the nightmare of a nuclear armed Iran from becoming a reality. “By abandoning the Iran Deal, Donald Trump has weakened the United States’ ability to negotiate strong agreements that prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Donald Trump’s disastrous decision will have long lasting consequences for our diplomatic efforts.”
05.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) and Congressman H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09) today introduced the bipartisan Improving Access to Mental Health Services Act to expand access to mental health services in the school system. The same bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sens. Tina Smith (D-MN) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK). The Improving Access to Mental Health Services Act would bring mental health professionals who currently work in the National Health Service Corps (NHSC) into the homes, schools, and community-based organizations that desperately need their services. Right now, NHSC professionals can only provide care at certain approved clinics and are limited in the care they can provide off site. This bipartisan and bicameral legislative effort would allow communities in California, Virginia, and across the country to expand access to mental health treatment for children. This legislation would particularly help young people in underserved areas who often lack adequate access to these vital services. “There are underserved communities in my district and across the country that desperately need the mental health services National Health Service Corps members can provide,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Congressman Griffith to ensure that more Californians, especially young people, have access to vital mental health and substance use disorder services, particularly in light of the nation’s opioid epidemic. By making our NHSC members more available to schools and other community-based settings, we can help young people get the care they need, when and where they need it. This is a common sense, bipartisan bill that needs to be passed into law.” “I am pleased to join my colleague Congresswoman Sanchez in introducing this bipartisan bill,” said Congressman Morgan Griffith. “People in rural areas, such as much of Virginia’s Ninth District, often have difficulty obtaining the mental health care they need. If underserved communities wish to invite National Health Service Corps professionals to help, they should be able to do so. By making this simple change, our bill would give these schools, families, and communities more options for mental health services, and more people, especially children, could have access to the care they need.” According to the National Institutes of Health, mental health conditions occur in young people about as often as they do in adults—about 1 in 5 have a mental health condition—but young people frequently have a hard time accessing mental health care. The Improving Access to Mental Health Services Act, which you can read more about here, would give existing NHSC providers further flexibility in where they are able to practice and deliver care, and those living in underserved areas would have better access to mental health services. ###
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus Linda Sanchez (D-Calif.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY), Co-Chair of the Antitrust Caucus Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), Judiciary Antitrust Subcommittee Ranking Member Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), and Co-Chair of the Antitrust Caucus Mark Pocan (D-WI) unveiled a legislative package to protect hardworking Americans against anti-competitive employment practices that severely impact workers’ rights. “Non-compete agreements hold American workers hostage,” said Congresswoman Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. “For years, many workers have been forced into signing non-compete agreements, depressing their wages and their ability to advance in their careers. I thank Chairman Crowley for his leadership on this legislation to help working families get ahead. If we believe in a competitive economy, then we must ensure the same for our workers. We’ve got to give them the flexibility and opportunity to thrive, get ahead, and do what’s best for their families. I’m proud to join my colleagues today to tamp down on this troubling practice. Our working families deserve better.” “Over the past several decades, waves of consolidation throughout the economy have imperiled the financial security of American workers. As a result, employers have immense power to restrict the wages and mobility of workers, and to justify anticompetitive mergers under the guise of corporate restructuring—which we all know means layoffs and unemployment,” said Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee. “I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this package of bold legislation to protect the economic opportunity and freedom of working Americans through the full benefits of competition. In particular, the Restoring and Improving Merger Enforcement Act, which I am introducing, would prohibit the consideration of spurious economic efficiencies—like corporate layoffs—to justify anticompetitive mergers. This package of bills is critical to addressing the scourge of anticompetitive behavior in labor markets—such as the widespread use of non-compete and no-poach agreements—preventing employers from redistributing American workers’ salaries into corporate profits." “Workers must be able to leverage their talent and experience to secure better pay and opportunities without fear of repercussions. Any attempt to systematically undermine that effort stands in stark contrast to our values,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this legislation to remove the unnecessary hurdles workers face as they seek better opportunities for them and their families.” “For too long, corporations have used anticompetitive practices, like non-competes and no-poach agreements, to trap workers in low-paying jobs and prevent opportunities for advancement,” said Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN), Co-Chair of the Antitrust Caucus. “It’s time to put a stop to this collusion and I’m glad to join my colleagues in introducing legislation that will do just that.” “Unbridled consolidation throughout the economy is fundamentally threatening the financial security and well-being of working Americans,” said Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI), the Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Antitrust Subcommittee. “Economic power and opportunity are becoming concentrated in fewer and fewer hands. That’s because employers with the power to dictate wages—also called monopsony power—have imperiled the economic liberty, financial security, and dignity of hardworking Americans. I am introducing the Economic Freedom and Financial Security for Working People Act to reverse this trend by prohibiting anticompetitive corporate mergers that would give employers the ability to dictate wages, benefits, and other workplace conditions. This legislation would give antitrust enforcers the clear authority to safeguard the economic security and freedom of working Americans by prohibiting mergers that will result in employers and other firms having monopsony power. “Forcing workers to sign non-compete agreements runs counter to the American idea that employees should have the opportunity to decide what job is best for them and their families. The Workforce Mobility Act would not only ban non-compete agreements, but also ensure that employees who are forced to sign them can seek recourse through the court system,” said Congressman Mark Pocan (D-WI), Co-Chair of the Antitrust Caucus. “As the co-sponsor of this legislation, I’m proud to stand with House Democrats and fight to end anti-competitive hiring practices that are suppressing workers’ rights and their wages. And while Republicans are pushing a corporate driven agenda that’s wrong for the American people, Democrats are focused on putting workers, not corporations, first.” The following bills were introduced as part of this legislative package: The Workforce Mobility Act: Introduced by Chairman Crowley, and Reps. Sánchez, Pocan, and Ellison, this bill bans non-compete agreements in the workplace by establishing that these contracts violate antitrust laws and by providing employees with a private right of action if they are illegally forced to sign a non-compete agreement. The Restoring and Improving Merger Enforcement Act: Introduced by Rep. Nadler, this bill would prohibit the consideration of spurious economic efficiencies—like corporate layoffs—to justify anticompetitive mergers. The End Employer Collusion Act: Introduced by Rep. Ellison, this bill bans agreements employers make with each other promising not to “poach” each other’s workers. These collusive, no-poach agreements drive down wages and prevent workers from moving to better job opportunities. The Economic Freedom and Financial Security for Working People Act of 2018: Introduced by Rep. Cicilline, prohibits anticompetitive corporate mergers that would give employers the ability to dictate the wages, benefits, and workplace conditions of hardworking Americans. This legislative package builds on efforts under the Obama administration to combat anti-competitive practices in the workplace, and it is supported by the American Federation of Labor, the Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, the National Employment Law Project, Open Markets Institute, the American Antitrust Institute, and Public Citizen. "This package of bills protects the political and economic liberty of every person in America who works for a living. We the people organized our government to protect us from domination by the powerful,” said Barry Lynn, the Executive Director of the Open Markets Institute. “Today, such domination and bullying is all too common, whether through absurd non-compete contract that restrict where we can work or secret collusion by employers to suppress our wages. Every person who works, from those who toil in restaurants to nurses to top scientists and engineers, must be free from coercion by bosses." “In an age of overwhelming corporate concentration, we need Congress more than ever to act by passing laws that clearly state that the main purpose of competition laws is to protect consumers and workers. And we need to give enforcers the tools and authority to scrutinize mergers that have the potential to raise prices and drive competitors out of the marketplace,” said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. “The series of bills that were introduced today are a step in the right direction in placing consumers and workers ahead of protecting corporate profits at all costs.” “As a coalition of unions representing more than four million professional and technical employees, DPE urges passage of the Workforce Mobility Act to ensure balance and fairness for everyone in our labor market,” said Paul E. Almeida, President of the Department for Professional Employees, AFL-CIO (DPE). “Professionals invest a significant amount of time and financial resources to develop their skills and expertise. Restraining professionals from advancing their careers by pursuing new employment opportunities runs counter to American values and harms the U.S. economy.” ###
04.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congresswomen Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38) led a letter with 73 of their Democratic colleagues to President Trump in opposition to his recent Executive Order on poverty, which attacks our nation’s social safety net programs by making it harder for people to access basic services like healthcare, nutrition, and housing. “Over fifty-three years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson and Congress worked together to create a social safety net that made lifting families out of poverty a national priority,” wrote the Members. “With a strong focus on helping people in their time of need, these leaders worked together to create programs to help end hunger, create good paying jobs, provide health care, and make sure our children get a good education. These social safety net programs have worked to fight poverty, and we stand ready to protect them..” “The misconception that stronger work requirements are the answer to poverty and unemployment rests on the flawed belief that disadvantaged people will only work if the government forces them to,” continued the Members. “The American people would be far better served if you and Congressional Republicans joined with us as we focus on economic policies that will create jobs and raise wages, instead of blaming people for needing a helping hand.” The text of the full letter is below, and a link to the signed letter can be found here. ###
04.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. RepresentativeLinda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement on last night’s military strikes against Syria: “The entire world must condemn the Assad regime’s criminal use of chemical weapons and send a clear message that such actions will not go unpunished. “I am very concerned by President Donald Trump’s military attack against Syria without congressional approval. President Trump must come to Congress to seek an Authorization of Use of Military Force and lay out to the nation a clearly defined strategy to keep our country from becoming entangled in another open-ended military conflict in the Middle East. “Both parties must work together to reassert Congress’ constitutional role and demand that the president obtain an Authorization of Use of Military Force before further escalating this military action. “I thank our men and women in uniform for their professionalism and bravery, and I pray for their safety.” ###
04.13.2018	Washington, D.C – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (D-Whittier), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump issued a full pardon for Lewis “Scooter” Libby, the former Bush administration official convicted of perjury, lying to the FBI, and obstruction of justice: “Donald Trump continues to demonstrate his complete disregard for the rule of law in our country. Even former President George W. Bush would not issue a pardon for Scooter Libby. This pardon sends a very dangerous message to all of President Trump’s associates that he will reward them if they protect the president by obstructing justice and the independent Special Counsel’s investigation. “Despite what Donald Trump may believe, no one is above the law, not even him.”
04.11.2018	Washington, D.C – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (D-Whittier), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today called on Speaker Paul Ryan to allow the House to act on bipartisan priorities for the American people before he retires: “I commend Speaker Ryan for his commitment to his constituents and I thank him for his two decades of service as a staffer and Member of Congress. As a parent with a young son, I fully understand his desire to spend more time with his family and I wish him well as he begins the next chapter in his life. “My hope is that in the final months of Speaker Ryan’s term we can work together to pass important legislation that will help America’s working families. From stabilizing the insurance marketplaces to passing the Dream Act to protecting the pensions of hard-working Americans, there are many areas of bipartisan agreement that could pass the House if the speaker would put the bill up for a vote. I stand ready to work with Speaker Ryan in this spirit of cooperation. I cannot think of a better way for Speaker Ryan to conclude his career in the House.”
04.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez, House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, issued the following statement to commemorate Equal Pay Day: “Women earn 80 cents for every dollar their white male counterparts make,” said Rep. Sánchez. “This disparity is a tangible form of discrimination. A woman puts in equal work, but in the eyes of her employer, her contribution is worth less. This is not just a women’s issue; the pay gap makes it harder for working families to get ahead. “Women of color get the worst end of the deal. According to the National Women’s Center, black women earn 63 cents for every dollar their white male counterparts make, and Latinas earn a mere 54 cents on the dollar. “We must address the wage disparity now. Women and their families cannot afford to wait. That’s why I’m proud to join my colleagues in the fight against wage inequality by reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act. Let’s get this done.”
04.05.2018	Norwalk, CA – U.S. Representative Linda T. Sánchez, House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to send troops to the U.S.-Mexico border: “Donald Trump's decision to send troops to the U.S.-Mexico border is a waste of limited resources and only puts further strain on state budgets,” said Rep. Sánchez. "This plan to deploy the National Guard is not about border security. It is about making the president appear tough on immigration after he scuttled a bi-partisan deal on DACA and failed to secure taxpayer funding for his medieval wall. Clearly, the President’s priority is not hard-working Americans.”
03.29.2018	Washington, D.C – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (D-Whittier), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, and U.S. Representative Paul Cook (R-Apple Valley) today introduced legislation to honor Vietnam War veterans. The bill would designate the last Saturday in March as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veteran’s Day.” “Serving in our military is one of the highest callings in our country,” said Rep. Sánchez. “The brave men and women that have honorably served during the Vietnam War deserve continued national recognition. I’m proud to re-introduce this legislation with my colleague, Congressman Cook, who is a decorated Marine and Vietnam veteran, on behalf of our veterans who fought courageously in the Vietnam War.” “I’ll never forget the sacrifices of the brave men and women who served with me in Vietnam,” said Rep. Cook. “Their courage and heroism inspires and drives me every day to continue fighting for our veterans. I’m honored to join with Congresswoman Sánchez to re-introduce this bipartisan legislation to provide Vietnam Veterans with the recognition they deserve.” “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Resolution Text: Expressing support for designation of a ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.’’ Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in Vietnam from 1961 to 1975, and involved North Vietnam and the Viet Cong in conflict with the United States Armed Forces and South Vietnam; Whereas the United States became involved in Vietnam because policymakers in the United States believed that if South Vietnam fell to a Communist government then Communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961; Whereas as a result of the Gulf of Tonkin incidents on August 2, 1964, and August 4, 1964, Congress overwhelmingly passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, on August 7, 1964, which effectively handed over war-making powers to President Johnson until such time as ‘‘peace and security’’ had returned to Vietnam; Whereas in 1965, United States Armed Forces ground combat units arrived in Vietnam; Whereas by the end of 1965, there were 80,000 United States troops in Vietnam, and by 1969 a peak of approximately 543,000 troops was reached; Whereas on January 27, 1973, the Treaty of Paris was signed, which required the release of all United States prisoners-of-war held in North Vietnam and the withdrawal of all United States Armed Forces from South Vietnam; Whereas on March 29, 1973, the United States Armed Forces completed the withdrawal of combat troops from Vietnam; Whereas March 30, 1973, was the first day that combat troops were no longer present in Vietnam; Whereas more than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives in Vietnam and more than 300,000 members of the Armed Forces were wounded; Whereas in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial was dedicated in the District of Columbia to commemorate those members of the United States Armed Forces who died or were declared missing-in-action in Vietnam; Whereas the Vietnam War was an extremely divisive issue among the people of the United States; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces who served bravely and faithfully for the United States during the Vietnam War were caught upon their return home in the crossfire of public debate about the involvement of the United States in the Vietnam War; Whereas the establishment of a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day would be an appropriate way to honor those members of the United States Armed Forces who served in Vietnam during the Vietnam War; and Whereas the last Saturday of March, 2018, would be an appropriate day to establish as ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) supports the designation of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day; (2) honors and recognizes the contributions of veterans of the Armed Forces who served in Vietnam; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that promote awareness of the contributions of veterans who served in Vietnam and the importance of helping Vietnam era veterans re-adjust to civilian life.
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement on the $1.3 trillion omnibus appropriations package for Fiscal Year 2018: “The Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act is not perfect, but it reflects the hard work of the members of the Democratic Caucus to beat back hundreds of anti-worker, anti-environment, and anti-choice poison-pill provisions. We could have completed our work long before today if Republicans came to the table ready to work together. “Weighed in its totality, I stand with the members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus in opposing this spending bill as it provides funding for Trump’s border wall while leaving out a permanent solution for Dreamers. Furthermore, this legislation does not include vital bipartisan measures to stabilize our health care system after sabotage by the Republican Congress. “While there are provisions that I and many Democrats oppose, the bill also provides funding for many of our top priorities. I want to recognize and thank the Democratic members and staff of the Appropriations Committee for their tireless efforts to fight for America’s working families.”
03.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement on the passing of Rules Committee Ranking Member Louise Slaughter (NY-25): “I am heartbroken to learn of Congresswoman Louse Slaughter’s passing. For more than 30 years she has been an unwavering advocate for families in western New York. Rising to become the first woman to ever chair the powerful House Rules Committee, she served as an inspiration for women all across the country. Louise was a champion in Congress for reproductive health and a leader in the fight to protect a woman's right to choose. “This is an enormous loss for me, for our caucus, and for our country. I know we all will miss her sense of humor and her fierce passion. My thoughts and prayers are with the Slaughter family at this very sad time.”
03.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement after the U.S. Attorney General announced that the Department of Justice would sue California over the state’s immigration policies: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions is launching a legal war on the State of California to push Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant agenda. California is on the right side of history and the right side of the law. I am confident that our state will prevail in court and continue to lead our country forward.”
02.13.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s budget for Fiscal Year 2019. “The President’s budget proposal is an irresponsible approach to dealing with the challenges Americans face every day,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Imprudent cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps, and other crucial social programs, while providing funds for a useless wall is just another example of the president’s misplaced priorities. The President’s budget proposal, in a staggering feat of incompetence, manages to make massive cuts to programs working Americans rely on while also increasing our national debt by at least $7 trillion over the next decade. “It’s clear that Republicans in both Congress and the White House can’t get their numbers right. This budget proposal completely disregards the needs of hard-working families and shows the president fundamentally lacks any understanding of sound economic policy.”
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a government funding bill without taking action to help Dreamers: “Democrats have relentlessly fought for the priorities of America’s working families. Over the last few months our unity and steadfastness has secured additional funding for many important bipartisan priorities including health care, disaster aid, the fight against opioid abuse, veterans, and our national security. At every turn our refusal to concede to the extreme demands of Republicans has ensured a brighter future for all Americans. We should be proud of these hard-fought achievements. “But I am greatly frustrated and disappointed that the Republican leadership has continued to stubbornly stand in the way of a bipartisan agreement on securing the future of Dreamers. All we have asked for is a chance to vote on the Dream Act. If given the opportunity, I know that the votes are there to send this bill to the president’s desk. We just need a vote. “Speaker Ryan’s most recent predecessor, John Boehner, said, ‘As the chamber closest to the people, the House works best when it is allowed to work its will.’ With just three weeks left before the deadline to pass a permanent legislative solution to protect Dreamers, I implore the Speaker to allow the House to vote. Instead of kowtowing to the extremes in the Republican Party, Paul Ryan needs to show real leadership and be the Speaker for the entire House of Representatives. With nearly 80 percent of the country supporting legal status for Dreamers, it seems everyone knows this is the right thing to do except for Speaker Ryan.” ###
02.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and U.S. Representative Peter Roskam (R-IL) today introduced H.R.4957, the Concentrating on High-Value Alzheimer’s Needs to Get to an End (CHANGE) Act, legislation to encourage early assessment and diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. With as many as 16 million Americans expected to be diagnosed with Alzheimer’s by 2050, the legislation seeks to relieve some of the burden on caregivers and accelerate progress to disease modifying treatments. U.S. Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) introduced a companion bill in the Senate. Senators Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) and Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) are original co-sponsors of the Senate bill. “Millions of American families, including my own, know all too well the devastating toll that Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias can take. Too often, patients don’t get a timely diagnosis, if they ever get one at all. Family caregivers do their best to provide the support their loved ones need, though their own health and economic security often suffer in the process,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am proud to have worked with my colleagues to introduce this bipartisan, bicameral legislation to promote and streamline early assessment and diagnosis and provide support to patients and their family caregivers. With millions more Americans, including and particularly Americans of color, expected to be diagnosed in the coming decades, we can’t afford to wait.” “The cruelty of Alzheimer’s holds no prejudice. Irrespective of race or gender, this neurodegenerative disease is projected to affect 240,000 Illinoisans over age 65 by 2025,” said Congressman Roskam. “This legislation will aid in earlier identification and treatment of this disease and provide caregivers appropriate training to care for loved ones experiencing cognitive decline.” “Alzheimer’s is a heartbreaking disease that affects the whole family,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our bill helps encourage early diagnosis, relieves the burden on caregivers, and improves care for patients. We have strong partners in the fight against Alzheimer’s in the House and Senate and I will continue working across the aisle to move this bill forward.” “The CHANGE Act takes a multi-prong approach to help the millions of Americans who are battling or are affected by this devastating disease,” said Senator Capito. “Having lost both of my parents to Alzheimer’s, I truly understand the emotional, physical, and financial toll it takes on patients and their caregivers. This legislation will encourage early assessment and diagnosis to help lessen that burden and bring us one step closer to a cure.” “Alzheimer’s is a burdensome and relentless disease for American families. The path to relieving that burden requires a highly-targeted approach to improve diagnosis rates, clinical research participation, and physician care practices. The CHANGE Act addresses this multi-faceted dynamic by tackling Alzheimer’s on all fronts, an approach which is essential to moving us closer to getting innovative treatments to more families affected by the disease,” said George Vradenburg, co-founder and chairman of UsAgainstAlzheimer’s. “UsAgainstAlzheimer’s is grateful to Senators Capito, Wicker, Stabenow and Menendez, and Representatives Roskam and Sanchez for their steadfast leadership on this issue. We’re honored to have played a key role in the CHANGE Act and urge all members to sign on as cosponsors.” “By taking the lead to introduce the CHANGE Act, Senator Capito continues to be a champion for the millions of individuals living with Alzheimer’s disease and their caregivers here in West Virginia and across the country. This legislation will help ensure an accurate and timely diagnosis, the availability of better support for individuals living with dementia and their caregivers, and the delivery of quality comprehensive coordinated dementia care,” said Helen Matheny, co-founder of Women Against Alzheimer’s. “Scientists and physicians have identified promising practices and evidenced-based best practices to improve care for individuals living with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. We know what’s working. The CHANGE Act will help these findings improve care for the millions of Americans living with dementia.” Alzheimer’s is the only disease among the top 10 causes of death in the United States without an effective means of prevention, treatment, or cure. The CHANGE Act supports, incentivizes, and authorizes high-value Alzheimer’s patient care, caregiver support, and research initiatives to improve prevention and treatment and move toward a cure for the disease. Specifically, the CHANGE Act: Requires the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to identify a uniform, reliable cognitive impairment detection tool or set of tools that will incentivize clinicians to detect, refer, and diagnose Alzheimer’s and related dementias in their earliest stages. Creates a coverage and payment model that offers family caregivers evidence-based training and certification specific to dementia care. Tests a comprehensive continuum of care through Medicaid that is modeled after the Programs of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE). More information on the bill is available here. Legislative text is available here.
02.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today addressed the House of Representatives to recognize Dana Zapanta, a counselor at Artesia High School in California’s 38th Congressional District, during National School Counselors Week: ***WATCH HERE*** “Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize the tireless work of school counselors across the country and in the 38th District of California that I am honored to represent. These public servants guide students through academic, social, and personal development. “Dana Zapanta, a counselor at Artesia High School in my district is exactly the type of champion students need. Dana, a twelve year counseling veteran, has been instrumental in the development of Artesia’s Career Technical Educational program. She also coordinates numerous events including AP student night and college fairs. Thanks in part to her unwavering commitment to students, the graduation rate is nearly 99 percent. “Despite the important contributions counselors like Dana make every day, counseling positions are not always protected when local budgets are cut. The average student-to-counselor ratio in our nation’s public schools is almost double the ratio recommended by the American School Counselor Association. Students deserve to have the support of school counselors like Dana. “That is why I am proud to introduce a resolution to designate this week as National School Counseling Week. I urge my colleagues to join me in honoring these selfless professionals.” Congresswoman Sánchez this week introduced H. Res. 723, a resolution to honor the hard work of school counselors across the country by making the week of February 5-9, 2018 "National School Counselors Week."
02.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, introduced H. Res 723, a resolution to honor the hard work of school counselors across the country by making the week of February 5-9, 2018 "National School Counselors Week." “School counselors play an important role in the everyday lives of young students,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “They help shape our country’s future by guiding millions of students across the country. For many students school counselors provide vital support and guidance, and help set them on the path toward educational and career success. This resolution recognizes our national appreciation for the hard work school counselors do to help make our future brighter.” The legislation was co-sponsored by 24 House Democrats: Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Al Green (D-TX), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), James Langevin (D-RI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), David Price (D-NC), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Juan Vargas (D-CA). Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act Background Congresswoman Sánchez is a leading advocate for the importance of school counselors in America’s high schools. She has been the author of the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” which provides funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. The current counselor-to-student ratio in America's schools is 482 to 1, which is nearly double the 250 to 1 ratio recommended by the American School Counselors Association and the National Association for College Admissions. In California, the need is even greater. In California, the counselor-to-student ratio is one for every 760 students. Legislative Overview: Current federal law provides federal support to promote school and student improvement, but does not comprehensively and expressly focus on addressing the present day national need for more high school counselors. This legislation would amend Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, to create a demonstration project to fund additional secondary school counselors aimed at reducing the drop-out rate in at-risk schools. Grants would be made available, on a competitive basis, to a minimum of ten secondary schools from at least five different states that receive funds under Title I of the Education Act. In order to qualify, the school must have a four-year adjusted cohort graduation rate of 60 percent or lower. The grant will be for a four-year period and may be used to provide additional school counselors as well as additional resources for existing school counselors. Funds for this act are meant to supplement, not supplant, funds from non-federal sources. The additional counselors provided through these funds must be in addition to any employees already working in the secondary school guidance or counseling office. Authorizes $5,000,000 for each of the next four fiscal years. Additional school counselors would be responsible for identifying students at risk of not graduating in four years and working with these students in need. These counselors would be encouraged to identify such students before they enter grade nine, but are permitted to identify students at-risk at any time. Counseling services would be provided as long as necessary. Services under this Act may include developing a graduation plan, course placement advice, and providing tutoring with supplemental books and materials. Services would also include scheduled meetings with not just the student-at-risk, but also the teachers, tutors, parents, and other relevant individuals (i.e. the probation officer, employer, or coach of each student).
02.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement after President Trump approved the release of this distorted memo authored by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes: “Protecting the integrity of our elections is not a partisan political issue. But from day one, Donald Trump and his Republican cronies in Congress have tried to undermine the ongoing federal investigation into the Trump campaign’s collusion with Russia during the 2016 election. The memo released by the president, Speaker Paul Ryan, and Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes plays right into the hands of Vladimir Putin. When Americans lose confidence in our government, its institutions, and the rule of law it weakens our country. “This memo is a deceitful attempt to damage the credibility of the FBI and the Department of Justice masquerading as ‘transparency’. The saddest part of this entire charade is that Republicans seem so willfully ignorant that they are being manipulated by a foreign enemy. But I have the utmost faith that the American people will see this sham memo for what it truly is, an attempt to distract from the investigation of Russian interference in our election.” ###
01.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, this evening released the following statement on the President’s State of the Union address: “The State of the Union address is an opportunity for the President to lay out his vision for the country and unify the nation behind our common goals. The President made some positive overtures to working together to achieve our shared priorities. However, saying we should work in a bipartisan way and actually achieving real solutions are two entirely different things. “During his first year in office, the President and the Republican Congress have done little to advance policies which benefit hard working Americans such as affordable child care, paid leave, and protecting retirement security. Instead they have focused on undermining environmental protections and giving massive tax breaks to the rich. In contrast, Democrats have always fought on the side of working families and will continue to push for a better deal for all Americans. “I am also very disappointed the President continued his efforts to divide our country. I had hoped that the President would seize this opportunity to move beyond his divisive rhetoric and outline a sensible, compassionate solution for Dreamers who work hard, pay taxes, and strive to achieve the American dream. Regrettably, he again doubled down on hateful stereotypes and his costly medieval wall. “Unfortunately, one evening’s speech does not erase a conflict-ridden, chaotic year that has driven our country even farther apart. Democrats have continually extended the offer to work together on the challenges Americans are facing every day, only to have the door slammed in our faces. It is going to take actions -- not words -- by the President and Congressional Republican leaders to reach across the aisle and bring our country together. “It is clear to everyone that the American people are tired of the partisanship and discord. Americans want their elected officials to work together in a bipartisan fashion that moves our country forward – that lifts all of us and not just the privileged few. We must answer their call with action. We must work to find common ground and not just work against each other. I remain relentlessly hopeful that we can rise to meet this challenge in the weeks and months ahead.” ###
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution to fund the government for three weeks until February 8: “This three week kick-the-can spending bill falls woefully short of what the American people sent us here to do. I'm against this bill today for the same reasons I was against it on Friday. It does very little to help community health centers, veterans, pensions for workers, and the national opioid crisis. “While Republicans have committed to schedule votes on many of these issues, I am skeptical. I am skeptical that these votes will ever happen. I am skeptical we will not be back in the same place in three short weeks. And I am skeptical that roughly 800,000 blameless young Dreamers will get the certainty they deserve. House Democrats will remain vigilant and I will keep fighting for the priorities of my community. I look forward to the day when this Republican controlled House will finally let us have a vote on our shared priorities.”
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, made the following statement tonight as Congressional Republicans and President Trump have shut down the federal government: “A government shutdown is an ignominious, but somehow not unexpected, way to begin the second year of President Trump’s term. Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McConnell and President Trump faced a simple choice tonight: work with Democrats on a funding bill to keep the government open or give in to the demands of the extreme right-wing of their party and take the nation into a shutdown. The Republican leaders have chosen to take the United States over the cliff. The impact of this decision will reach every corner of our country. “While Republicans have lurched from crisis to crisis, Democrats refuse to join them in deferring action on the serious challenges our nation faces. Their inability to make the tough choices necessary to lead and govern is the sole reason why we are in this situation. It is my hope that they will wake up to the fact that this is a problem of their own making. The only way to move forward is to work with Democrats to reach an agreeable compromise. The sooner Republicans recognize that the better for our country.”
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement after the House Republicans pushed through their fourth temporary government funding bill since September: “This is no way to run a government. The American people expect Congress to make tough choices and get its work done. I am disappointed that Republicans continue to kick the can down the road when we have so many important challenges that need to be addressed. I strongly urge members of the United States Senate to reject this pathetic attempt at governing and send a clear message that another short term stopgap funding bill is not acceptable.”
01.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair and a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to end protected status for immigrants from El Salvador: “President Trump today moved to end vital protections for immigrants escaping warfare, violence, and disaster in El Salvador. Sadly, this is just his latest attack on immigrants in our country. Through the Temporary Protected Status program, the United States has lived up to its role as a humanitarian leader in our hemisphere. TPS has helped hundreds of thousands of immigrant families from El Salvador, fleeing from one of the most dangerous countries in the world. “What has made our country the shining beacon of hope around the world is our generosity and our compassion for those who seek a better life in America. Donald Trump’s decision is a reversal of decades of U.S. humanitarian and immigration policy. America once opened its doors to these immigrants escaping harm in their home countries, and today we slam the door in their faces. The torch of freedom burns a little less bright today because of Donald Trump’s heartless choice to end TPS for El Salvadorian immigrants.”
12.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair and a member of the tax writing Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Tax Policy Center analysis that shows the final version of the Republican tax scam would increase taxes on 86 million households: “Tomorrow, House Republicans will vote to pass their tax bill through the House. Along the way economists of every stripe, non-partisan score keepers, and tax policy experts have warned that the Republican tax bill is a scam that would raise taxes on working families while giving a tax cut to the top 1% of Americans and corporations. And now the last report released before the vote only adds to the mounting evidence that this tax bill is a bad deal for hard working Americans. “Republicans for years said they had a ‘Better Way.’ Is this it? With 86 million households expected to see a tax increase under the Republican plan, I don’t see how anyone without millions or billions of dollars in the bank would think that Republicans are actually interested in helping working families get ahead. Instead of working with Democrats to craft a bipartisan plan to create a fairer and simpler tax code, Republicans chose to stack the deck against the middle class and those aspiring to achieve the American Dream.”
12.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair and the highest ranking Latina in the House, today released the following statement calling on Congress to pass the Dream Act before the end of the year: “Passing the Dream Act should not be this difficult. It is a priority for the Democratic Caucus and enjoys strong support from many Republicans. The impediment all along has been the Republican leadership’s unwillingness to do the right thing and put the Dream Act up for a vote. I am proud to join members of the Hispanic Caucus to strongly urge Republican leaders to schedule a vote on a clean Dream Act before we leave for the holidays. There is enough bipartisan support to get this done – we just need a vote. “Since President Trump ended the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program, more than 12,000 young people have lost their protection from deportation. Every day that Congress delays this bill from becoming law, 122 Dreamers lose their protected status. Democrats stand ready to finish our work and pass protections for Dreamers.”
12.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, today released the following statement on the Republican tax bill conference report: “I am disappointed Republicans wasted the opportunity for real tax reform. Instead of making desperately needed changes to our tax code to help hard working middle-class families, Republicans chose deficit busting tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations. But if Republicans think they will be able to raid Social Security and Medicare to pay for this tax giveaway - they have another thing coming.”
12.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez today gave the following statement on the Democratic Motion to Instruct Conferees on the Republican deficit busting $1.7 trillion tax scam that will harm America’s working families: “I rise today to ask a question: What is the rush? Why are we rushing to vote on a $1.7 trillion tax bill that will end up being paid off the backs of working Americans? “And don’t be fooled. Working Americans WILL pay for this bill. “That’s why the National Association of Realtors warned that the typical home owner in my state could see their home value drop between $37,710 and $56,550. “That’s why the Joint Committee on Taxation has said the Republican bill would increase costs to college students and their families by $71 billion. “And we all know whose retirement Republicans will raid when their overly optimistic growth numbers don’t materialize – they are going to come after your Medicare and Social Security. “The American people deserve better than this Republican tax scam. “Instead of rushing to get this done, let’s work together to get it done right.” ###
12.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez today released the following statement on the Senate vote to advance a deficit busting $1.7 trillion Republican tax scam that will harm America’s working families: “While much of the country was sleeping, Senate Republicans jammed through another partisan bill that will hurt millions of Americans. “Republicans are fixated on scoring a political victory at any cost – even if the cost is $1.7 trillion to American families. They have ignored the warning signs from nearly all corners of our country including faith groups, institutions of higher education, independent score keepers, and economists, which have all said that the Republican tax scam will raise taxes on working families and lead to an economic fiasco. Now our country is speeding towards this disaster without a moment of pause. “Democrats have long called for an overhaul to our broken tax system. But a partisan tax cut for the wealthy and corporations is not tax reform. The Republican plan does not make the tax code fairer or simpler. It does not make life easier for hard working Americans who need the help. It does nothing to spur growth in our communities. It just lines the pockets of millionaires, billionaires, and corporations. “The American people deserve real tax reform. They deserve better than this Republican tax scam.”
11.20.2017	Norwalk, CA – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, recently introduced H.R. 4313: The Fair Credit Reporting for Servicemembers Act. “Our servicemembers make tremendous sacrifices for our country—and their credit score should not be one of them. Unfortunately, too many servicemembers face financial challenges when they return home because of missed payments incurred while they were deployed. “The Fair Credit Reporting for Servicemembers Act allows deployed service personnel to notify credit reporting agencies of a military deployment. It also authorizes reporting agencies to contact deployed service members when an adverse action is posted on their credit report. Both actions would give creditors more context about the circumstances under which service members missed payments. “This bill gives servicemembers more control over their finances and the peace of mind that they will have fair credit reporting in the event of a deployment.” Rep. Linda Sánchez first introduced the legislation after hearing from John Kelsall, President & CEO of the Greater Lakewood Chamber of Commerce. He shared with her stories of service members and veterans who had trouble obtaining business and home loans because of missed payments while they were deployed. She authored the legislation in 2014 and again introduced the bill in the 114th Congress.
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today gave the following remarks on the tax fiasco which Republican passed through the House: “I rise today in opposition to H.R. 1, or better known as the GOP tax scam. This bill provides tax cuts for corporations and multi-millionaires at the expense of hard working middle class families. “Massive corporate tax cuts do not guarantee job growth or higher wages. The only thing guaranteed is the $2.3 trillion this scam adds to the deficit. “Democrats are serious about passing comprehensive tax reform that is fair and puts a little more money in the pockets of working Americans. This fiasco of a bill is not fair. “Corporations get a massive 15% tax cut. What do working families get? They get nickels and dimes. “Despite student loan debt surpassing $1 trillion, this bill eliminates the student loan interest deduction which only allows those earning $80,000 or less to claim it in the first place – squarely hurting middle class Americans who are trying to pay off debt, save for a home, or buy a new car. “Teachers would no longer be able to deduct expenses for school supplies that they purchase with their own money for their classrooms. Yet corporations are able to deduct the cost of those same supplies that they purchase. “Seniors and people with chronic illnesses would no longer be able to deduct some of the cost of their treatment. And at a time when many families are feeling the pressures of affording care for their children, and their aging parents, this bill takes money out of their pockets. “Under this bill 29 million households would lose the property tax deduction, 80% of middle class homeowners would lose, compared with 13% of high-income earners. Does that sound fair? “Finally, the elimination of the state and local income tax deduction disproportionately impacts middle income families, especially those in California whose residents would see an overall net tax increase of $12.1 billion. “The tax code is a reflection of our values. The Republicans have clearly chosen who they serve, the wealthy and corporations. But I’m concerned about the 36 million Americans who will see a tax increase, teachers and their students, and people with preexisting conditions.”
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today introduced an amendment to the Ryan-McConnell tax proposal that would expand the Child Tax Credit to more families. The Ways and Means Committee voted down the Sánchez amendment along party lines by a vote of 23-16. “The Republican tax proposal before Congress today is stacked against working families in countless ways. This Republican proposal is full of hollow changes designed to sound like it is designed to help middle class families, but in reality are giveaways to their wealthier neighbors. It leaves the most vulnerable among us to fend for themselves. My amendment would ensure that the child tax credit helps the families that need it the most.” The amendment by Rep. Sánchez would expand the Child Tax Credit to provide a $3,600 credit for families with young children, index the credit for inflation, eliminate the $3,000 earnings threshold for the refundable portion of the credit, and make permanent the $300 “family flexibility” credit. Text of the Sánchez amendment is available here.
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Republican tax proposal released by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady: “America is in need of real tax reform. This bill is not real tax reform. It is nothing short of a tax fiasco. Republicans have talked for years about the need to do a 1986 style tax reform. This does not even come close to the process or the substance of 1986. “Just as expected, it is another fiscally irresponsible tax giveaway to wealthy Americans and corporations. But massive corporate tax cuts does not guarantee job growth or increased wages for working families. It only guarantees adding at least $1.5 trillion to the deficit. “The truth about the Republican tax plan is billionaires get massive tax cuts while working families are left to pick up the $1.5 trillion tab. The American people are sick and tired of the same Republican cut, cut, and cut proposals. Under the Ryan-McConnell tax plan, the mortgage interest tax deduction would be cut. The student loan interest deduction would be cut. State and local tax deduction would be cut. I don’t see how any of that helps working families. “We need a tax code that is simpler, fairer, and supports working families. But this bill does not achieve any of that. Instead, Republicans are pushing out a rushed tax plan that will give only the wealthiest families tax relief while many working families could likely see a tax increase.” ###
11.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following video statement about the start of the 2018 ACA open enrollment period:e Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following video statement about the start of the 2018 ACA open enrollment period: “Hi. I’m Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, and I represent California’s 38th Congressional District. “Despite the confusing messages you may have heard from the White House and Republicans in Congress, I want to assure you that the Affordable Care Act is still the law of the land. “You can enroll in a health plan for next year through California’s ACA marketplace, Covered California, where you can shop and compare plans to determine which one works best for you and your family. Visit CoveredCA.com to sign up today. “Health insurance may be more affordable than you think. In fact, most people who get coverage through Covered California qualify for financial help to lower their health care costs. You’ll be able to see if you are eligible for any federal financial assistance at CoveredCA.com. “Remember: your time to enroll for coverage next year is limited. In California, we have until January 31st to sign up. But if you want your coverage to start on January 1st, you need to sign up by December 15th. “I strongly urge you to enroll early and encourage your friends and family to do the same. “All of this may sound complicated, but don’t worry. There are resources available to assist you in this process. Visit CoveredCA.com for more information and to sign up. If you need help, call Covered California today at 1-800-787-6921 again – that’s 1-800-787-6921. “Thank you, and get covered today!”
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement after House Republicans voted for a budget that includes a $1.5-trillion deficit increase to fund Trump's tax cuts: “After voting to increase the deficit by $1.5 trillion, I never want to hear Republicans complain about deficits ever again.”
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Democratic tax reform principles: “Democrats have a clear vision of what real middle class focused tax reform looks like. We believe that tax reform should go towards helping grow America’s middle class – not stuffing the pockets of the wealthiest Americans and corporations. A meaningful and lasting update to our tax code should accomplish a few things: 1) it should create a simpler and fairer tax code for working Americans and small businesses; 2) it should level the playing field so that American businesses can complete globally; and 3), it should prioritize fairness for all families across all income brackets. The principles for tax reform that Democrats have laid out would help to achieve all those goals. “Republicans, however, are continuing their reckless go-it-alone strategy. Republicans are under enormous pressure to pass a tax bill – any tax bill – no matter the cost. The proposal laid out by the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans would add $1.5 trillion to the national debt. With history as our guide, what ends up happening when we have these massive, partisan, and unpaid for tax cuts, is that it drives up the debt and then suddenly Republicans end up calling for cuts to the services that working families and middle-class Americans need the most, like Social Security and Medicare. “We have been down the road of unpaid Republican tax cuts before, and we know it is not a ‘better way’ for our country. If Republicans are serious about doing tax reform in the right way – not just another massive tax giveaway – then Democrats are ready to get to work. But if they insist on trying to jam another piece of major legislation through the House with only Republican votes, then I think their tax fiasco will face the same end as their health care repeal and replace efforts.”
10.23.2017	Today, 36 members of the California Delegation sent a letter to Rep. Kevin Brady and Sen. Orrin Hatch, the chairmen of the House Ways and Means and Senate Finance committees, respectively, expressing deep concern about any proposed changes to the state and local tax (SALT) deduction as indicated in the “Big Six” framework. The SALT deduction allows taxpayers to deduct state and local taxes from their federal taxable income, and was written into the federal tax code since the inception of the income tax in 1913. The Representatives, in the letter, state, “The average value of the SALT deduction for a California household is $18,438. The vast majority of these filers are homeowners, many of whom counted on the deductibility of state and local taxes when determining the affordability of their homes. Our constituents made these purchasing decisions with the understanding that their property taxes would be deductible. Repealing SALT could endanger their financial security and make California homes less affordable for current homeowners and for prospective buyers.” The letter, pasted below and available online here, was led by Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Mike Thompson (CA-05), and Linda Sanchez (CA-38) who released the following statement\s: “Californians already pay more to the Federal government than we receive in federal spending, paying about $17 billion more than we received in 2015 alone. Now, we’re being asked to increase our tax burden simply so corporations and the wealthiest few can receive tax cuts. Additionally, this extra tax would cripple families in our districts who bought their homes with the SALT deduction built into their financial planning. These families should not have the ground knocked out from under their feet now just for the sake of a tax plan that already favors the wealthy over the middle class. It’s not just the families who would be hurt by this, it’s communities as well. These local taxes pay for things like better schools and fire departments, and the SALT deduction allows our state and local communities to provide these types of services that benefit those of all incomes. It’s our goal to help more families afford the American Dream, and the SALT deduction plays an important role in helping them achieve that goal.” October 23, 2017 The Honorable Kevin Brady The Honorable Orrin Hatch Chairman Chairman Committee on Ways and Means Committee on Finance U.S. House of Representatives U.S. Senate Washington, DC 20515 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Brady and Chairman Hatch: As members of the California Congressional Delegation, we write to express our deepest concerns about any proposed changes to the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, as indicated in the “Big Six” framework. The SALT deduction allows taxpayers to deduct state and local taxes from their federal taxable income, and was written into the federal tax code since the inception of the income tax in 1913. It has fostered a strong partnership between federal and state and local governments, and we oppose any change that would damage this cultivated relationship. SALT ensures that the income of our residents is not taxed twice – once by the state or local entity, and again by the federal government. In 2015, over 6.1 million California households claimed the SALT deduction. Of those claimants, 82.57% were families earning less than $200,000 in household income. The average value of the SALT deduction for a California household is $18,438. The vast majority of these filers are homeowners, many of whom counted on the deductibility of state and local taxes when determining the affordability of their homes. Our constituents made these purchasing decisions with the understanding that their property taxes would be deductible. Repealing SALT could endanger their financial security and make California homes less affordable for current homeowners and for prospective buyers. At the same time, California has a negative balance of payments to the federal government, meaning the state pays more in taxes to the federal government than it receives in federal spending. In 2015, Californians paid approximately $17 billion more in taxes than they received in federal investment. Elimination of SALT would unfairly penalize a state that contributes more than it receives in assistance. It is important to note that elimination of this deduction would also have an impact on those in our state who do not claim the deduction. SALT supports a strong partnership between the federal government and state and local entities, allowing them to use tax dollars to fund critical public expenditures. Local taxes fund infrastructure, teachers, fire fighters, police officers, and more. According to 2014 Census data, almost 80% state and local expenditures went to public services including education, public welfare, hospitals, transportation, and public safety. The elimination of SALT would pressure state and local governments to make cuts and take in less revenue, resulting in the elimination of projects and services at the local level that benefit those of all incomes. The California Association of Counties, the Office of the Governor, and numerous local mayors have all expressed strong concerns about the elimination of SALT. Any change or modification to this deduction would increase the burden on middle class families and hurt our local economies. We urge you to reconsider this decision, and we appreciate your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Judy Chu Mike Thompson Linda Sanchez Pete Aguilar Nanette Diaz Barragan Karen Bass Ami Bera Julia Brownley Salud O. Carbajal Tony Cardenas J. Louis Correa Jim Costa Susan Davis Mark DeSaulnier Anna G. Eshoo John Garamendi Jimmy Gomez Jared Huffman Ro Khanna Ted Lieu Zoe Lofgren Alan Lowenthal Doris Matsui Grace Napolitano Jimmy Panetta Lucille Roybal-Allard Raul Ruiz Adam Schiff Brad Sherman Jackie Speier Eric Swalwell Mark Takano Norma J. Torres Juan Vargas Maxine Waters Barbara Lee
10.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda T. Sánchez, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, joined Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Steve Knight (R-CA) and 26 other colleagues as original founders of the bipartisan National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Caucus. The Caucus will increase awareness on the importance of NASA’s contributions to our national security, economic development, and scientific achievements. “For almost 60 years, NASA has made the United States the leader in space exploration around the world,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Businesses in California’s 38th congressional district play an important role in supporting NASA’s trailblazing endeavors, including future missions to Mars. I’m proud to join my colleagues as a founding member of the NASA Caucus to highlight the important milestones the agency makes and continues to do in fueling our national economy with jobs, spearheading technological improvements, and making the United States the world’s leader in space exploration.” Rep. Sánchez joined with the following 26 Members of Congress as founders of the NASA Caucus: Reps. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Steve Knight (R-CA), Brian Babin (R-TX), André Cason (D-IN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Charlie Christ (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Al Hastings (D-FL), Bill Johnson (R-OH), David Joyce (R-OH), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ralph Norman (R-SC), Pete Olson (R-TX), Steven Palazzo (R-MS), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Bill Posey (R-FL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Scott Taylor (R-VA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Randy Weber (R-TX)
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to stop critical cost-sharing payments that help working families afford their health care: “President Trump’s decision to stop the cost-sharing reduction payments that help working families afford their health care is reckless and cruel. Stopping these payments further sabotages the Affordable Care Act by destabilizing health insurance marketplaces and saddling working families with higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs. I urge President Trump and my Republican colleagues to abandon their irresponsible and counterproductive sabotage effort and to work across the aisle to bring down health care costs and build on the progress we’ve made with the ACA, not tear it apart. Working families know we can’t go back to a time when millions more Americans couldn’t access the quality, affordable health care they needed when they needed it the most.”
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to decertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), commonly referred to as the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “By decertifying the Iran Nuclear Agreement, President Trump is manufacturing an unnecessary second nuclear crisis. He is playing a dangerous game at a time when the United States already faces a significant nuclear challenge from North Korea. Decertifying the Iran deal takes the focus away from the aggressive actions made by Iran in the Middle East and drives a wedge between the U.S. and our allies. “Donald Trump’s own national security advisors have spoken in favor of staying in the Iran agreement. The Intelligence Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency have found Iran to be in compliance with the terms of the agreement. This misguided action by the president does not protect America’s national security interests. It only creates additional uncertainty at a time when our nation’s credibility is at stake. “Decertification of the Iran deal by the president has put the responsibility to lead squarely on the shoulders of this Congress. It is now up to Congress to prevent Donald Trump’s ‘America First’ strategy from turning into ‘America Alone.’ We must ensure the United States lives up to its obligations in the Iran agreement.”
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Social Security Subcommittee, released the following statement on news that beneficiaries will receive a 2 percent increase in Social Security benefits in 2018: “This year’s 2 percent COLA increase in Social Security benefits is welcome news to nearly 59 million Americans. As our economy continues to improve, the rising cost of groceries, gas, and other goods has squeezed beneficiaries’ pocketbooks even tighter. Social Security provides vital economic security to older Americans and those living with disabilities, allowing them to live a life of dignity. “While this COLA increase helps, I believe that Social Security needs to adopt a more accurate formula that will better keep pace with the increasing costs of prescription drugs, housing, and other necessities. I will continue to push for legislation that increases this earned benefit for current Social Security beneficiaries while also making the program stronger for future generations.” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez is the author of the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2016 which increase benefits, ensures the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) adequately reflects the cost of living, and improve the financial condition of the Trust Fund.
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s executive order which would further sabotage health insurance marketplaces across the country: “Today’s executive order is another shameful attempt by the Trump administration to sidestep the will of the American people, who have rejected Republican attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Instead of pursuing bipartisan commonsense solutions to strengthen the individual market, the Trump administration remains singularly focused on undermining the landmark legislation that has provided 20 million Americans with health insurance. “The Trump administration’s ACA sabotage efforts include slashing the outreach budget, cutting the open enrollment period in half, scheduling maintenance on healthcare.gov during key periods during open enrollment, failing to commit to continue funding the cost-sharing reduction payments, and now, encouraging the proliferation of stripped-down plans, which could further destabilize the market and jeopardize access to life-saving care for working families. By making cheaper, skimpier, poorly regulated plans that do not need to meet basic consumer protections and benefit rules more widely available, the executive order would leave older, less healthy Americans with higher costs, undermining their access to affordable coverage. This executive order is a dangerous step in the wrong direction and seniors and working families will pay the price.”
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA), along with Reps. Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Leonard Lance (R-NJ), today introduced H.R. 4006, the Community Based Independence for Seniors Act, to create a new Community-Based Institutional Special Needs Plan (CBI-SNP) demonstration program. This program would target home and community-based services to low-income Medicare beneficiaries who need help with activities of daily living. Full text of the legislation is available here. “I know firsthand the difficult decisions seniors and their families across our country have to make when it comes to staying their homes or moving to a nursing home,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The Community Based Independence for Seniors Act enables seniors to maintain their independence by providing them the home and community-based services they need to thrive. We know that without community-based long-term services and supports, which are not typically covered by Medicare, seniors frequently experience negative health outcomes, lose their ability to live independently, and often turn to Medicaid for coverage of long-term care expenses. This is a common sense bipartisan bill which will help seniors stay in their homes and I am proud to lead this important effort.” “Many seniors prefer to remain in their homes to receive the care they need,” Rep. Patrick Meehan said. “Home- and community-based care hold the promise of keeping seniors healthy and avoiding costly care. However, Medicare does not typically provide coverage for these services. The Community Based Independence for Seniors Act of 2017 is one step toward reforming long-term services while allowing seniors to remain at home.” “Seniors shouldn’t be forced to spend down their assets to access the care they need,” said Rep. Schrader. “Too often, we rely on nursing home care as a one-size-fits-all solution for at-risk seniors. It’s often ineffective and inefficient. By broadening services available to seniors to include vital day-to-day services like home-delivered meals and transportation assistance, we can bring down the costs of care and help seniors in Oregon and across the country stay in their own homes.” “This bipartisan bill will assist the many senior citizens who want to stay in their residences but may still need some Medicare services,” Rep. Leonard Lance said. We need to improve community-based plans so beneficiaries can continue to count on the high quality care they have earned. And the taxpayers win when senior citizens are not forced to seek expensive care that does not fit their needs. This demonstration program will give us data to make lasting improvements.” BACKGROUND The Community Based Independence for Seniors Act establishes a demonstration program that targets home and community-based care to eligible seniors who need help with two or more activities of daily living. Seniors would receive services specific to their needs, such as home delivered meals, transportation services, adult day care services, and homemaker services. By targeting services to at-risk seniors, the Community Based Independence for Seniors Act helps seniors stay in their homes and communities, rather than moving to a nursing home, which can be very expensive and is often not the older adult’s preferred care setting. This bill also helps keep federal and state governments’ costs down as seniors under this program would not need to deplete their resources to be eligible for Medicaid in order to receive home and community-based services.
10.08.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, tonight released the following statement on the immigration principles put out by the Trump administration: “The principles released tonight do not represent our American values. As President Trump knows, pushing for funding for a medieval wall and other draconian immigration measures puts a bi-partisan agreement at risk. The lives of DREAMers are not chips to be moved across the table. It is time for the president to get serious and work with Democrats to finalize an agreement for the hundreds of thousands of DREAMers who are contributing to our economy and our communities.”
10.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on the administration decision to roll back access to contraceptives which could affect 62 million women: “All women have the right to comprehensive and affordable health care – including contraceptives. The Trump administration’s rule rolling back access to birth control coverage is an outright attack on women’s health. Millions of women in the United States rely on contraception as part of their personal health care. This sweeping action by the Trump administration allows the government and employers to interfere in a private medical decision.”
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on House passed Republican budget: “The Republican budget sets our country down a path that will only exacerbate the economic inequality that plagues our nation. Too many Americans are working harder for stagnant wages wages. And instead of helping hard working Americans, the Republican budget proposes massive tax cuts to the wealthy while cutting important programs that are vital to middle class families. Their budget makes detrimental cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, and slashes investments in our future. That’s not a ‘better way.’ “Alternatively, Democrats have laid out a clear alternative in our budget helps grow our economy from the middle. Our vision for the future of this country is one where everyone has the opportunity to succeed through hard work. We want to move our country forward through investments in education, infrastructure, medical research, and workforce training. House Democrats will continue to work to keep the promises of our Better Deal for America.”
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON—Last week, House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, Linda Sánchez (D-CA), along with Congressmen Markwayne Mullin (R-OK), George Holding (R-NC), and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) introduced H.R. 3867. H.R. 3867 will establish a pilot program within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that encourages practitioners to identify early symptoms of chronic kidney disease (CKD), lowering overall health care costs and providing better treatment for patients with CKD. An estimated 30 million people—15% of our adult population—have chronic kidney disease. However, an overwhelming percentage (96%) of CKD cases often go undiagnosed. H.R. 3867 would boost early detection and improve the outcome rates of CKD patients. “As the saying goes, ‘an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.’ There is more we can and must do for the 30 million Americans living with chronic kidney disease,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “That’s why I’ve partnered with Representatives Mullin, Holding, and Butterfield to introduce this bill, which would create a pilot program to identify and treat chronic kidney disease early. Slowing the disease’s progression to end stage renal disease will help keep people healthier longer and drive Medicare’s costs down. I urge my colleagues to support this legislation so we can save lives and keep Medicare’s costs in check – at the same time.” “Nationwide, approximately 1 in 3 adults with diabetes is likely to have chronic kidney disease. In my home state of Oklahoma, diabetes was the sixth leading cause of death in 2010,” said Congressman Mullin. “Oklahomans are at a much higher risk of developing this potentially life threatening disease. This bill encourages Medicare providers to detect chronic kidney disease at an earlier stage leading to better health care and lower costs to taxpayers. Incorporating early detection and healthy lifestyle choices along with proper preventative treatments can help Oklahomans stay healthier and live longer while simultaneously bringing down Medicare costs.” “Chronic Kidney Disease affects nearly 30 million people in the United States,” said Congressman Holding. “I’m proud to help introduce the Chronic Kidney Disease bill so doctors can work with their patients to detect CKD early and delay the progression of end stage renal disease. When nearly 6% of Medicare’s budget is spent on 1% of Medicare’s enrollment, there’s a problem. Detecting this disease early will hopefully drive down that skyrocketing cost as well as benefit countless patients and their families.” “African Americans suffer from kidney failure at a rate three times higher than other Americans, and Chronic Kidney Disease disproportionately affects people in North Carolina’s First Congressional District,” said Congressman Butterfield. “H.R. 3867 addresses this problem through preventive efforts that help reduce the chances of end stage renal disease, dialysis, and premature death. With earlier detection of CKD, we can help people live longer, healthier lives.” H.R. 3867 was introduced into the House on September, 28, 2017. The bill has been referred to the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Committee on Ways and Means.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – In the wake of disturbing reports of the neglect of nursing home residents in the wake of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, 46 members of Congress called on Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma to maintain current protections for elder Americans against abuse in nursing homes. In Florida, 12 residents died and more than 100 were hospitalized after a long-term care facility failed to evacuate residents after losing air conditioning in the aftermath of Hurricane Irma. In Texas, similar abuse occurred at a facility that refused to evacuate despite severe flooding. The letter is led by Representatives David N. Cicilline (RI-01), John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Linda Sánchez (CA-38), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01). They wrote: “The horrific reports of abuse at facilities in Florida and Texas in the wake of Hurricanes Irma and Harvey underscore the need for your agency to reconsider upending the legal protections of those who have worked and saved for their entire lives to retire with dignity. This is a time when we should be protecting our nation’s seniors, not rolling back their fundamental right to hold wrongdoers accountable for neglect and abuse.” Last year under the Obama Administration, CMS finalized a strong rule that prohibited the use of pre-dispute, mandatory (“forced”) arbitration clauses in nursing home admission agreements. Nursing-home residents stand to lose virtually every cause of action against unscrupulous caregivers unless these current protections against forced arbitration in nursing-home admission contracts are preserved. As the letter notes, following an extensive notice-and-comment rulemaking process, CMS determined that forced arbitration undermines the ability of health investigators to prevent and remedy abuse in nursing homes. But under the Trump Administration, CMS has already begun the process to end this protection. The letter follows a letter from House Democrats—including Representatives Johnson, Cicilline, Conyers, Nadler, and Sanchez—in 2015 that called on CMS to adopt these protections. The group of House Democrats denounced plans by CMS Administrator Verma to roll back existing protections, writing “Americans in nursing homes deserve better. It is vital that residents and their families are able to enforce their rights and hold nursing home operators accountable for dangerous facility conditions and the inhumane treatment of residents. We strongly urge CMS to protect the health and safety of nursing home residents, particularly in light of recent events, by maintaining the current prohibition of forced arbitration clauses in nursing home admission contracts.” A signed copy of the letter, as delivered, is available here.
10.02.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, tonight called on Congress to act on sensible gun safety measures following the Las Vegas shooting: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great sorrow and anger. “Late last night, 58 people were tragically murdered, and over 500 wounded in a senseless act of heinous violence in Las Vegas, Nevada. “The murderer was found to have over ten guns, including at least one automatic rifle. “No person should be allowed to possess a weapon that makes indiscriminately killing human beings easier. It just baffles me that some of my colleagues don’t agree with that basic premise. “Not only do they not agree with sensible gun control measures, like background checks and no fly-no buy, they won’t even allow public research dollars to be used to research gun control and gun violence. “Until Congress acts to make it harder for dangerous people to acquire these types of weapons, tragedies like this will continue to happen. “How many more people have to die? How much more blood must be shed before Congress decides to act? Moments of silence and the sympathies, thoughts and prayers from members of this body is not enough anymore. “The time has come to act. We must act now.”
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on the Republican leadership’s proposal for tax reform: “What Republicans released today should have every American asking ‘How are you going to do it?’ Republicans have again put out a framework of generalities without specifics on how they hope to achieve their goals or the long-term costs to the American people. My concern with the fundamentals of the Republican plan is that the wealthy and corporations will see much of the benefit, while the long term costs will fall squarely on the backs of middle class families. “Hardworking Americans need a simpler and fairer tax code – there is no disagreement there. Today’s tax code is a complex web that is hard for working families to navigate. However, tax reform done the wrong way will not actually deliver the help Americans need. “During our meeting with the president yesterday, he assured everyone in the room that the benefits from their tax reform plan would go to middle class Americans – not the wealthy – and he pointed at Treasury Secretary Mnuchin and White House economist Gary Cohn. From what we have seen so far, that assurance will likely be added to the growing list of President Trump’s broken promises. “There is more Congress should do within the tax code to help Americans save for retirement, make child care more affordable, and make investments in our future. These are areas where I think we can get bipartisan agreement. But Republicans have to be willing to include Democratic input. “For lasting tax reform to work, it must be bipartisan. It’s clear the Republican ‘Go-It-Alone’ approach does not work. Now is the perfect opportunity for Congress to work together on a tax reform package that will help working families and grow the middle class.” ###
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement in opposition to the Republican FAA Extension Bill under consideration in the House today: “Millions of Americans are in need of help for their government following the impact of hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Unfortunately, what Republicans included in their FAA extension bill leaves out important tools to help our fellow Americans rebuild their homes and their lives. The American people are hurting and it is time for congressional Republicans to put the partisan games aside and actually start helping people. “This bill is a prime example of how Republicans continue to choose the ‘go-it-alone’ strategy and why it continues to fail. Without input from Democrats, Republicans left out bipartisan priorities like the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers extenders, and critical tax relief provisions to help victims of natural disasters that were included for victims of prior disasters such as Hurricane Katrina. “Getting disaster relief to our fellow Americans should be the easiest bill for Congress to pass. It should be a no brainer to send the help they need as quickly as we can. The American people are tired of political gamesmanship when they are trying to get back on their feet. We need to do the right thing and pass a clean and comprehensive disaster aid bill.” ###
09.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, released the following statement after signing the discharge petition to force a vote on the DREAM Act on the House floor: “Congress needs to take action now. Republican leadership refuses to hold a vote on the DREAM Act, which would protect DACA recipients from deportation and create a pathway towards citizenship for undocumented youth. That is why Democrats, in the face of Republican inaction, filed the discharge petition to force a vote on the DREAM Act. “Regardless of political party, Americans overwhelmingly support providing relief for DREAMers. They have lived here almost all of their lives, contributing to our communities and economy. We can’t let these aspiring American citizens remain in limbo or in fear of being deported. “I’m confident that if this legislation is given the opportunity for a vote on the House floor, it would pass with strong bipartisan support. Our DREAMers are Americans in every sense of the word besides having the piece of paper to prove it. It is time to give these hardworking individuals the opportunity to continue being part of the country they love and support.” ###
09.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, released the following statement on National Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs each year from September 15 to October 15: “This year’s National Hispanic Heritage Month takes on even greater significance because of the relentless political attacks we have seen against the Latino community in the United States. The president has made our community the scapegoat for the challenges that this country continues to face. “Just last week, the president rescinded the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program—leaving over 800,000 DREAMers under threat of deportation. This act by the president is just wrong. It’s cruel. And it contradicts who we are as Americans. “Now more than ever, the Latino community has to stay strong and united. We will fight the president’s destructive agenda in Congress. Anti-immigrant rhetoric is anti-American. DREAMers are an intrinsic part of our nation—they pay taxes, they’re our friends and neighbors. They make our economy strong and robust, and if we lose them, our economy will be significantly crippled. “Hispanic Heritage Month is about pride for the Latino community’s achievements. But this year specifically, it is a time to recognize—with pride—the amazing achievements of our DREAMers, because they truly make our country great.”
09.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, along with Representatives Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02), and Mike Thompson (CA-05) today introduced the bipartisan Apprenticeship and Jobs Training Act of 2017 to enhance training and education opportunities for American workers through registered apprenticeships. Apprenticeship programs have been an integral part of America’s workforce development, allowing workers to increase their skills while also earning a paycheck. This legislation is the House companion to the bill introduced earlier this year by Senators Maria Cantwell and Susan Collins. Full text of the legislation is available here. Substantive apprenticeship programs are an integral part of the quality education that leads to good paying American jobs. A skilled workforce is a critical component to a continued productive economy, but in recent decades employers have been experiencing a shortage of properly trained, available workers. Apprenticeship programs are a proven tool for workers to learn advanced skills while also earning a paycheck. The bill would create a $5,000 tax credit based upon wages paid by companies who hire individuals enrolled in a federal or state registered apprenticeship program. For employers participating in a multi-employer apprenticeship program, the credit rate would be $3 per hour each individual works. A worker must be employed for 7 months before the credit can be claimed and can be claimed as the apprentice works through the program for a maximum of three years. The bill also allows veterans to apply their previous skills and experience towards education hours so they can be put to use more quickly. “In today’s global economy there are more ways to succeed than ever before,” said Representative Linda T Sánchez. “The Apprenticeship and Jobs Training Act would ensure that more hard-working Americans are able to learn the skills necessary to compete for good paying jobs in today’s most in-demand industries. Expanding apprenticeship programs will help our middle class thrive by closing our skills gap and raising household wages.” “Apprenticeship programs grow our economy by fostering training programs that will prepare workers for in-demand careers,” said Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick. By closing the skills gap, this bipartisan program will encourage more good-paying jobs for working families, while addressing our nation’s current shortage of trained workers. I am proud to work with Congresswoman Sanchez on this bipartisan legislation to enhance America’s workforce and bring robust job growth to Bucks and Montgomery Counties.” “Apprenticeships empower workers to get on-the-job training without breaking the bank,” Rep. Derek Kilmer said. “In a rapidly changing economy this is a key path to learning a new skill and earning a decent wage. I’m proud to be part of this effort to create new opportunities for local employers to invest in our workforce and create quality jobs through apprenticeships.” “As we seek to bolster American job creation and lower unemployment, encouraging apprenticeships will help build the skilled workforce our country needs to compete in the global economy,” said Rep. Frank LoBiondo. “Given the needs for well-trained workers in many fields, this bipartisan legislation would provide opportunities for individuals seeking additional education and experience to further their careers.” “Apprenticeship programs have consistently proven to be successful models of both career and workforce development, creating opportunities for workers and companies,” said Rep. Mike Thompson. “By allowing workers to earn a living while learning a trade, companies are able to create more jobs and build out their business. This bill would create greater incentives for companies to expand apprenticeship programs and would ensure veterans can apply their relevant military training to their apprenticeships.” ###
09.07.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released this statement following Pennsylvania Rep. Charlie Dent’s announcement that he will retire at the end of the 115th Congress: “Charlie Dent is a model for what an elected representative should be. He never wavered in his commitment to Pennsylvania or the people he was elected to represent. He is a man that has earned the great respect of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle by being principled, fair, and firm in his beliefs. “While we did not always agree on everything during our time together leading the Ethics Committee, Charlie was constantly focused on working to build consensus. Even through the toughest assignments, Charlie always put doing the right thing first. Americans can have faith in their elected U.S. Representatives because of his commitment to upholding the integrity of the institution. “Over the years, we have developed a friendship that I know will continue well beyond his time in Congress, and I join in thanking Charlie for his service to our country.”
09.05.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on President Trump’s rescission of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program which protected from deportation immigrants who arrived in the United States as children: “President Trump’s rescission of the DACA program marks his cruelest action yet against our immigrant – especially the Latino immigrant – community living in the United States. These DREAMers have lived here almost their entire lives, have integrated into our communities, and have become a part of our American fabric. They see themselves as American in every sense of the word besides having the piece of paper to prove it. Repealing DACA is a foreclosure on the American Dream for nearly a million children and young adults who consider this country their only home. “This is nothing more than a political decision to appease the extreme factions in his party and includes no good-faith effort to fix our broken immigration system. Since the president has shown his outright hostility to the Latino community, it is time for Republicans to step up and pass the DREAM Act to protect DACA program recipients from deportation and create a legal path towards citizenship for undocumented youth.” ### Spanish Version
08.30.2017	Norwalk, CA – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s speech on tax reform: “President Trump’s speech on tax reform was heavy on promises but light on details. He merely repeated the same Republican rhetoric and platitudes we’ve all heard before. I am disappointed the President failed to address many of the issues that matter most to my constituents: the rising cost of childcare, affordable housing, and saving for retirement. “The American people deserve to know exactly how the president and Republicans intend to achieve their goals. I’m terrified that tax reform will end up being balanced on the backs of hard working families. Under the president’s plan, multinational corporations that already pay little to nothing in taxes, will see their tax rates slashed while working people and locally owned small businesses pick up the tab. “If history is any guide, true comprehensive tax reform must be a bipartisan bill that is negotiated and drafted in the open, not the same old, smoke-filled Washington backroom as the failed Republican health care bill. That is what Congress was elected to do. Americans are tired of politics as usual. Tax reform represents a real chance for Republicans and Democrats to work together to make the tax code work better for all Americans.”
08.22.2017	Norwalk, CA – U.S. Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on President Trump’s Afghanistan speech: “Last night, President Trump laid out his proposal to send thousands more American troops to Afghanistan. Unfortunately, he failed to give the American people specifics on how he intends to wind-down this nearly two-decade long military conflict. This country needs to put an end to our long-standing military involvement in Afghanistan. A blank check for the president to continue the war in Afghanistan is unacceptable. “During the last 17 years, our country has sacrificed thousands of American lives and countless sums of money to ensure Afghanistan does not become a terrorist safe-haven again. My hope is that in the coming days the president will put forward a clear and detailed strategy to bring our troops home. We all deserve to know exactly what it will take to end our military involvement in Afghanistan and provide stability throughout the region.” ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA), member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, has co-sponsored The American Hope Act of 2017 to protect Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA) recipients from deportation and create a legal path towards citizenship for undocumented youth. The American Hope Act would allow undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children to apply for conditional permanent resident (CPR) status. They would subsequently apply for lawful permanent resident (LPR) status and, ultimately, earn citizenship. “I am proud to introduce this vital legislation with my colleague, Rep. Luis Gutierrez with strong support from members of the Democratic Caucus in order to protect over 800,000 DACA recipients and other immigrant youth from deportation. The American Dream is about perseverance. Success is not given to you. But when you’re not even given the opportunity to prove yourself, the very meaning of the American Dream becomes an empty promise. “President Trump’s efforts to deport hard-working and law-abiding members of our society undermines our values as Americans. If you are a contributing member of the United States who’s lived here your whole life, works hard, pays taxes and stays out of trouble, you deserve the opportunity to have a legal path towards citizenship.” ###
07.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA), a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced a ban on transgender individuals from serving in the U.S. military: “Transgender members of our military deserve national praise for their dedication and service to our country. They serve our country every day with distinction and courage. Instead, this morning they were demeaned by the commander-in-chief via Twitter. This has to stop. “Banning qualified and trained transgender individuals from serving in our military weakens our national defense. I am committed to ensuring that our military is the best trained, best equipped, and most supported fighting force in the world. This arbitrary decision by Donald Trump does nothing does not make our country safer or improve readiness.”
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today released the following statement on former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence: “What James Comey made absolutely clear in his testimony today was that President Donald Trump knew exactly what he was doing as he attempted to influence the FBI Director to drop the investigation into Michael Flynn. Suggestions of the president’s ignorance are simply disingenuous. He is the President of the United States, not an apprentice. There is no other explanation as to why Donald Trump kicked others, including the Attorney General and the White House Chief of Staff, out of the room to speak one-on-one with the FBI Director. “The testimony James Comey gave today points directly to a concerted effort by Donald Trump to covertly influence an ongoing federal investigation. The country needs to know all the facts developed by credible, non-political investigations. Now it is up to the congressional investigations and the investigation lead by Robert Muller to follow the facts no matter where they lead.” ###
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and U.S. Representative Mike Kelly – members of the House Ways and Means Committee – today introduced the Working Families Relief Act (H.R. 2618) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation would increase the maximum amount that employees can set aside or employers can provide to the Dependent Care Assistance Program (DCAP), a flexible spending account which can be used to pay for childcare on a pre-tax basis. H.R. 2618 would raise the cap from $5,000 to $10,500 and index it for inflation. It would also provide tax credits to employers who match the DCAP contributions in order to encourage them to offer this benefit. Statement by Rep. Sánchez (D-CA): “As a working mom myself, I understand that every working parent wants to be able to do it all. However, we often have to make sacrifices in both our personal lives and our careers just to keep up. I know that even a little help can make a world of difference for a hard working family. The Working Families Relief Act seeks to make childcare a little more affordable for working families. I look forward to working with my friend Rep. Mike Kelly to pass this important legislation on behalf of hardworking Americans.” Statement by Rep. Kelly (R-PA): “Early education and a child’s healthy development go hand in hand. Giving kids the right foundation at a young age means giving them a fair opportunity to succeed in life. Unfortunately, far too many working families struggle to cover costs for quality care. This bipartisan bill will help parents overcome that difficulty by expanding and modernizing DCAP accounts, which currently help more than 1.3 million families pay for early learning programs and childcare every year. As Congress works closer toward achieving pro-growth tax reform to rebuild our economy, this bill is about making sure our tax code is firmly on the side of our nation’s most precious asset – our children – and the hardworking parents who love and support them.” Statement by Mark Shriver, president of Save the Children Action Network: “Many parents know that without high-quality learning programs, their children could fall behind and never catch up. Families want to provide their children with this kind of quality care; however, for many it’s simply unaffordable. Expanding the Dependent Care Assistance Program so more working families can participate will make child care costs more affordable and help parents ensure their children have a strong start in life. I want to thank Representatives Mike Kelly and Linda Sanchez for leading on the Working Families Relief Act in the House.” ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair, Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today made the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its report which showed 23 million people would lose their health insurance coverage under the Trumpcare bill rushed through the House a month ago. “Republicans recklessly rushed to pass a bill without knowing the impact their legislation would have on our country. What we now know is Republicans voted to kick 23 million Americans off of their insurance. Millions of those who would still have insurance would be covered by stripped down plans, gutted of essential health benefits, that barely provide any protection at all. Even more troubling, is the CBO’s view that under Trumpcare insurance may become unaffordable for people with pre-existing conditions, essentially a death sentence for older and sicker Americans.” “House Republicans passed a bad bill and now they have to own the consequences of that vote. They put their own politics ahead of the wellbeing of their constituents. Hardworking Americans would be the biggest losers under Trumpcare. For seven years, Republicans said they had the ‘Better Way.’ This CBO report shows the Republican plan is the wrong way for America.” Read the Full CBO Report Here. ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Trump administration’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal: “The budget proposal released by the White House today would lead to the death of the middle class by a thousand cuts. The Trump plan makes massive cuts to vital programs such as Medicaid, Social Security Disability Insurance, and even Meals on Wheels. These are programs that millions of Americans rely on every day. It also makes it harder for hard working Americans to get ahead by slashing investments in job training, college affordability, and clean energy innovation. “These draconian cuts are made in name of deficit reduction. However, the fatal flaw in the Trump budget is its reliance on unrealistic economic growth assumptions. It continues perpetuating the myth of trickledown economics. The reality is that hard working men and women will have to work even harder just to keep up. This budget stacks the deck against millions of middle class families trying to get ahead. “For someone who campaigned on helping America’s working families, Donald Trump’s budget shows he cares more about promoting an extremist ideology than actually making our country stronger. The cuts included in Donald Trump’s budget proposal would essentially foreclose on a better future for our country. Instead of making our country even greater, the Trump budget would make our country less competitive for generations to come.” The President’s budget slashes $1.4 trillion from programs our families and communities depend on to get by. Included in his budget are: $610 billion in cuts to Medicaid $191 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which helps feed nearly 44 million people-including kids—every year $143 billion from federal student loans, including the elimination of federally subsidized loans and loan forgiveness programs for nurses, police officers, and teachers $100 billion from the Highway Trust Fund $48 billion cut from Social Security’s disability program $40.4 billion in cuts to the Earned Income Tac Credit and Child Tax Credit $38 billion from Farm bill programs, including a cap on crop insurance premium subsidies 31.4 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 20.5 percent cut to the Department of Agriculture ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Trump administration’s formal NAFTA renegotiation notice: “After more than two decades of failed trade policy under the NAFTA model, renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement is long overdue. Donald Trump promised to craft a 21st century trade policy that benefits America’s working families and help create jobs here at home. Now is his opportunity to deliver. “Trade is important and necessary for U.S. workers. But trade agreements that stack the deck against American workers and incentivize U.S. businesses to ship jobs overseas is not a viable model for our economic future. I believe that economic growth and American job creation are not mutually exclusive. We can craft a trade agreement that ensures our economy remains competitive in the 21st century while also protecting labor rights and the jobs of hard working Americans. “As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, I urge the President, the Commerce Secretary, and the U.S. Trade Representative, to work closely with Congress throughout the NAFTA renegotiation process. As the people’s elected representatives, Congress must ensure that a new agreement meets the goals of helping working families, growing our economy, and protects American workers. Now is our chance to create a 21st century free trade model that benefits all Americans.” ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, joined with Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY), to reintroduce the bipartisan, bicameral Credit For Caring Act, which would provide working family caregivers with a nonrefundable tax credit up to $3,000 to assist with out-of-pocket expenses related to caregiving. The legislation was also introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). This bipartisan legislation seeks to aid those balancing full or part-time employment, while also taking on added financial responsibilities as a family caregiver supporting a loved one. This tax credit for caregivers can be used toward expenses such as transportation, home modifications to accommodate a family member, medication management services, and training or education for the caregiver. "As a daughter with two parents living with Alzheimer's disease I understand the burden this responsibility places on family caregivers in similar situations all across the country," said Sánchez. "The Credit for Caring Act will help alleviate some that burden by providing a tax credit for services such as home care and adult day care. I am proud to work with Rep. Tom Reed and Sen. Joni Ernst to find a bipartisan solution to help families across this country care for their loved ones." "We all care about ensuring our aging loved ones get the assistance they deserve," said Reed. "We must work to find an equitable approach to ease the burden on family caregivers, which is accomplished with this legislation." "More than 40 million Americans provide unpaid care to a friend or relative with a long-term illness or medical condition, often juggling this work with other obligations and spending a great deal of money providing this care," said Warren. "This modest tax credit will make life a little easier for the hardworking Americans who do the often-unacknowledged but powerfully important work of taking care of their loved ones in need." "Family caregivers play a critical role in supporting aging parents or special needs individuals," said Ernst. "There are more than 40 million family caregivers across the country, and 317,000 in Iowa. I am grateful for the bipartisan support from my colleagues on this important legislation to better accommodate family caregivers' selfless actions." "Colorado's family caregivers dedicate countless hours of unpaid care so their loved ones can continue to live independently," said Bennet. "This bipartisan tax credit will help ease the burden of everyday expenses for family caregivers. As our population grows older, this is an additional step we can take to support families across the country." "Having recently shared in the caregiving of my own parents, I understand the difficulties that caregivers face and the significant costs involved," said Capito. "The Credit for Caring Act is exactly the type of solution we need to help ease the financial burden caregivers face, and I am proud to join my colleagues to support this important measure." "AARP is pleased to endorse the Credit for Caring Act and appreciates the bipartisan leadership of Senators Ernst (R-IA), Bennet (D-CO), Capito (R-WV), and Warren (D-MA) and Representatives Reed (R-NY) and Sánchez (D-CA) to support family caregivers," said Nancy LeaMond, AARP Chief Advocacy and Engagement Officer. "Across the country, 40 million Americans are taking care of loved ones so they can stay in their homes and communities, delaying or preventing more expensive institutional care or hospital stays. Last year, these family caregivers spent an average of 20 percent of their income on care-related expenses. That translates to $6,954 in 2016, and some pay much more. The Credit for Caring Act would give some much-needed financial relief to eligible family caregivers. We look forward to working with the bill's sponsors and others to pass this important legislation." About the Credit for Caring Act: · Creates up to a $3,000 nonrefundable tax credit adjusted to inflation for family caregivers · Applies to incurred family caregiving expenses greater than $2,000 · Qualified care recipients must have been certified by a health care practitioner to be in need of long-term care for at least 180 consecutive days · Eligibility is limited to a caregiver of a qualified care recipient who must pay for caregiving expenses and has earned income in excess of $7,500 · Credit is phased out when income exceeds $150,000 for joint filers or $75,000 for individual filers
05.10.2017	Washington, DC – Following the sudden firing of FBI Director James Comey, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), renewed her call for an independent investigation into ties between President Donald Trump and Russia’s attempts to influence the outcome of the 2016 election: “The firing of FBI Director James Comey has raised serious questions about the Trump administration’s conduct of the FBI investigation into Russian influence in our elections. It is clear that the President will do anything to prevent anyone looking into this matter. I am unconvinced that this administration can be trusted to conduct a credible investigation. That is why I continue to call for an independent investigation into possible connections between Donald Trump’s campaign and Russia. “There is a severe lack of trust with regards to the conduct of this administration. The American people deserve to know if Russia colluded to help Donald Trump win the White House, and if so, how far the Russian influence reaches inside this administration. Until there is a credible independent investigation that reveals all the facts, there will be a dark cloud of suspicion over the Trump presidency.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today made the following statement as the House debated the Republican TrumpCare bill: “I can’t believe we’re here again to vote, or not, on the Republican’s so-called health care bill. Let me remind my colleagues that we are finally here only after Republicans failed to even hold a vote on March 24th and then offered extreme multiple failed amendments to appease the furthest right of their party. “But I have to give it to them, it takes real cojones to stand here for a vote on a bill that they know provides zero health care benefits for the American people. It takes real fortitude and conviction to stand up for a bill that cuts coverage 24 million Americans, guts Medicaid, reduces the solvency of Medicare, and segregates the sickest. “The truth is Republicans lack the bravery to call this bill what it really is – a massive tax cut for the rich on the backs of working moms and dads and the sick. They lack the integrity to do the hard work it takes to craft an actual health care bill that would build upon current law and improve the health of Americans. “I implore my colleagues to come to their senses, vote against this terrible bill, and work with us to continue improving health care in this country for all Americans.” ###
05.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and Co-Chair and Co-Founder of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, today made the following statement in opposition to H.R. 1180, a bill that would rob workers of pay they have earned. “This proposal guts overtime protections and forces working men and women to make the false choice between time with their loved ones and a fair wage. Instead of offering ‘flexibility’ to working families, employers should be following the letter of the law and pay workers fairly for the hours they work. Employers shouldn’t be able to put their workers’ well-being at risk under the guise of giving workers a choice. “If Republicans truly wanted to help working families, they would guarantee paid sick days and paid family leave instead of offering the ‘flexibility’ for employers to choose how workers live their lives. This bill is a bait and switch that amounts to nothing more than another attack on worker’s rights. I strongly oppose this bill and urge my colleagues to vote no.”
05.02.2017	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and Vice-Chair of the Equality Caucus, joined Equality Caucus Co-Chair Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI), and 192 members of the House of Representatives to introduce the Equality Act of 2017. This legislation amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to add nondiscriminatory protections for LGBTQ people based on sexual orientation and gender identity. “It is unacceptable that the law today still treats LGBTQ people as second class citizens,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Everyone, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity, must be protected and treated equally under the law. The Equality Act of 2017 will ensure that the laws of our country provide LGBTQ Americans the same protections we all enjoy.” “I want to thank Congressman David Cicilline, and the co-chairs of the Equality Caucus, for their leadership, and all of the members supporting this legislation,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “Respecting our brothers and sisters should not be a partisan issue. Ensuring every person in this country is treated fairly and justly should not be a partisan issue. I hope my Republican colleagues will step up and support this important bill.” “Fairness and equality are core American values. But millions of LGBT Americans are still viewed as less than equal in the eyes of the law today,” said Rep. Cicilline. “I’m proud to introduce the Equality Act of 2017 with Senator Jeff Merkley. This bill ensures that every LGBT person can live their lives free from the fear of discrimination. Above all, it’s about honoring the values that guided our nation since its founding. It’s critical that Congress pass the Equality Act into law.” As of now, 29 states do not provide protections for LGBTQ Americans. Because of this, LGBTQ people can be fired, evicted, or denied a loan because of their sexual orientation and gender identity. The Equality Act would provide nationwide federal protection to LGBTQ people from discrimination. Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-OR) also introduced the same legislation in the U.S. Senate with 45 original co-sponsors.
05.01.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and the highest-ranking Latina in the House of Representatives, today released the following statement on the retirement of Florida Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen: "As the first Latina and the first Cuban-American elected to Congress, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen has been a trailblazer throughout her career. Ileana has been a thoughtful and dedicated public servant during her nearly four decades in Congress. Through it all, she always put her community and her country ahead of partisan politics. “I am proud to have worked with Ileana Ros-Lehtinen on legislation to make our schools safer for all students and secure equality protections for Social Security beneficiaries. Ileana always has the courage to stand up for what she believes is right, even if it means breaking with her party. I thank Ileana Ros-Lehtinen for her service. And I wish her the best of luck in her life’s next adventure.”
04.26.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the revised Republican health care repeal plan: "The latest Republican health proposal goes even further in the wrong direction. It continues to kick millions of Americans off their health insurance. It does nothing to lower premiums for working men and women. And it cuts essential health benefits such as protections for pre-existing conditions. On top of all that, House Republicans have chosen to exclude themselves from the plan they want to impose on all Americans. This is the wrong way for America."
04.26.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the tax outline released by Republicans: "Tax cuts do not pay for themselves. Period. The plan released today by the White House is heavy on the deficits, but light on the details. What we know from the few details is that this outline does not make the kitchen table budget discussion any easier for working Americans. “America is in need of real tax reform, not a tax giveaway to the wealthy. I strongly believe that bipartisan tax reform is a possibility. However, this outline does not move our country closer to achieving the goal of comprehensive tax reform. It is simply another massive tax cut for the wealthy at the expense of hard-working Americans.”
04.24.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement on the 102nd Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide: “As we come together to commemorate this anniversary, we must also renew our commitment never to allow the world to forget the atrocities of the Armenian Genocide. Over the last 100 years, almost all of the survivors have passed away. But their stories are not lost. Their legacy lives on in all of us – their family and friends. The responsibility to share what happened rests squarely on our shoulders, Armenians and non-Armenians alike. “I will continue working as long as it takes to get official recognition of the Armenian Genocide. We will get this done. I will keep working to make sure that the United States of America never forgets, and never allows another tragedy like this to happen again.” ###
04.07.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump ordered airstrikes in Syria: “The entire world must condemn the Assad regime’s criminal use of chemical weapons against innocent men, women, and children. The targeted bombing of a Syrian airfield, on its own, will not end the slaughter of civilians in Syria. With the world watching, I strongly believe that the United States and our allies must work together to finally bring an end to Syria’s long and bloody civil war. “If President Trump intends to engage in further military action in Syria, he must lay out to the nation a clear strategy that utilizes the partnership of our allies and ensures that we do not get sucked in to another quagmire in the Middle East. I urge Speaker Paul Ryan to demand that the president not escalate military actions against the Assad regime without an Authorization of Use of Military Force from Congress. It is critical to the balance of powers that the legislative branch assert its constitutional role to prevent another costly extended military conflict in the region.” ###
04.06.2017	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) today joined 12 bipartisan Members of Congress, along with the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network (GLSEN), and the Human Rights Campaign, to introduce H.R. 1957: Safe Schools Improvement Act. The legislation would require school districts to adopt codes of conduct specifically prohibiting bullying and harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and religion. “No parent wants their child to be bullied at school. Schools must be a safe place for our children to learn and grow and be protected from bullying,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The Safe Schools Improvement Act will give parents like me peace of mind to know all our children have an educational environment where they can learn without fear of harassment. I thank Rep. Carlos Curbelo, Human Rights Campaign, GLSEN, and my colleagues for joining me in standing up for safer schools.” “As a former School Board member and the father of two young children in public school, it’s of great importance to me that schools across the country are a safe place where students can learn and thrive without being subject to bullying or harassment,” Rep. Carlos Curbelo said. “We need to support policies that promote healthy learning environments and empower students to succeed, while also reducing the risk of avoidable tragedies that can cause incredible pain for families and communities. I believe that this legislation is an important step towards achieving these goals and I’m proud to join Representative Sanchez in this effort.” “GLSEN applauds Reps. Sanchez and Curbelo for their partnership to reintroduce the Safe Schools Improvement Act, federal legislation that would improve school climate for students across the nation,” said GLSEN Executive Director Eliza Byard. “This longstanding bipartisan bill is a common sense and critical step toward ending bullying and harassment in schools nationwide. It reflects proven best practices in education designed to address deeply hurtful expressions of bias among students. We look forward to working with Members to advance this bill this Congress.” “LGBTQ students experience bullying in schools at greater rates than their non-LGBTQ peers, and, when left unchecked, this can lead to seriously dangerous situations for young people,” said HRC President Chad Griffin. “This bill will not only help to curb these unacceptable levels of bullying and harassment, they will also give education agencies the data they need to study the problem and do the much-needed work to end it.” Background The Safe Schools Improvement Act has garnered support from nearly 150 organizations, including the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the Human Rights Campaign; the National Council of La Raza; the Anti-Defamation League; and the American Unity Fund. Full List of Original Co-Sponsors: Reps. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Don Young (R-AK), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Peter King (R-NY), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Tom MacArthur (R-NJ), Krysten Sinema (D-AZ), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and David Cicilline (D-RI). Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has been recognized as a leader in working to make schools safe for all students. The Safe Schools Improvement Act was first introduced in the 110th Congress.
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Social Security Subcommittee, today joined House Democrats to introduce Social Security 2100 Act. The measure, led by Rep. John Larson (D-CT), stands to cut taxes for Social Security recipients, provide a benefit bump for current and future beneficiaries, and keep the system strong for generations to come. “For generations, our nation has lived by a simple promise: Americans who have worked hard their entire lives have the right to retire with dignity and security,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “To honor a lifetime of work and service, I am proud to join with my colleagues to introduce the Social Security 2100 act which will protect, strengthen, and expand this earned benefit for all hard-working Americans. This legislation will help keep the promise of Social Security for the decades to come.”
04.05.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and Vice-Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, today made the following statement on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protects employees from workplace discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation: “The 7th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the right of all Americans to be able to work freely without discrimination based on their sexual orientation. It is important that the protections provided by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 recognizes sex discrimination in its multiple forms. Although this is an important step forward, we must ensure we continue to fight for full equality for our LGBT community both in employment and in broader society.”
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement in response to the executive order signed by President Trump to roll back the Clean Power Plan: “Today is another example of how President Donald Trump’s policies are not helping America’s working families. His executive order rolling back the Clean Power Plan does not help create jobs. Instead, it will make our communities sicker and allow polluters to continue poisoning our air and our water while pocketing even greater profits. “Nationwide, 31% of Latinos live within 30 miles of a power plant and are 165% more likely to live in counties with unhealthy levels of pollution. The consequences of these environmental conditions are evident in the high rates of asthma and other illnesses among Latinos. Instead of fighting for healthier communities, this president is doing everything in his power to make it easier to pollute our environment. “As long this president and his administration continue to deny the overwhelming consensus in the scientific community, it will be the working men and women of this country who will pay the greatest price. They will pay with the health and wellbeing of their families.”
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today joined House Democratic leadership at a press conference after House Republicans pulled the vote on TrumpCare. Below is a transcript of her remarks: ***Watch Video*** “Today’s lack of vote is a temporary victory for the American people. “For 7 years Republicans made promises about repealing the Affordable Care Act, and today they could not deliver. “They had 7 years to come up with their so-called ‘better way’ and now it turns out they’ve been bluffing all along. “The American people sent a clear message today: if Republicans want to repeal the Affordable Care Act and take away health care from millions of people – they do so at their own peril. “If Republicans are serious about wanting a better way for health care, they will work with Democrats to improve the Affordable Care Act so that we can make problematic provision better. “But we will not stand idly by and let them tear apart a piece of legislation that has had such a tremendous impact on so many people. “Republicans love to knock the Affordable Care Act but the fact is it has increased coverage for 20 million Americans, and it has improved quality and lowered cost for more than 156 million people that get their health care through their employer. “So, we breathe a sigh of relief on behalf of the American people. “We’ve seen bad bills come to the floor, but the bill that would have been on the floor today was just plain heartless. And we are so glad we didn’t vote on that legislation today.” ###
03.24.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today joined House Democratic leadership at a press conference ahead of today’s vote on TrumpCare. Below is a transcript of her remarks: ***Watch Video*** “I think by now it's crystal clear that the bill that's going to be on the floor today is not about protecting the health of Americans, it's about protecting and stroking the ego of Donald Trump. House Republicans are so desperate to deliver a win for Donald Trump that they don't care what the cost to American families is. “You heard the numbers, they're staggering. Twenty-four million people will lose coverage if this bill becomes the law of the land, and that includes 40,000 people in my district alone. We know that this isn't about America's working families because there's nothing in this bill that will lower premiums or that provides the care that is needed. And as the leader stated this morning, this bill is one of the worst bills for women to ever come through Congress. “We know that Trumpcare would cut pretty basic things that Americans expect in their health insurance. They're called essential benefits for a reason; they're essential to your health and wellbeing. But this bill would cut things like emergency services, hospitalizations, pregnancy and pediatric care and prescription drugs. “Now, who goes out and purchases a health insurance plan thinking that if they have a serious illness or have an unexpected accident, that when they go to the emergency room or to the hospital, that they're not going to be covered? Why would you pay money for a policy that doesn't cover the most basic, essential things that you need when you are seriously sick or injured? Yet that's what this bill would do. “We also know that this bill breaks President Trump's campaign promise by cutting nearly a trillion dollars from Medicare and Medicaid. Not only does it cut Medicare, it creates an age tax so that older Americans pay even more. And let me tell you, if you are a family that is struggling to raise kids and care for aging parents, that is a huge alarm bell. That should be a wakeup call. “You know, Donald Trump fancies himself this role of savvy deal- maker. Well, we know that he's pretty good at getting the best deals for himself, but Trumpcare is a bad deal for America's families. The American people stand to lose and lose and lose under this bill. Americans will lose coverage, Americans will lose care, Americans will lose basic consumer protections and Americans will lose money out of their pockets. “This bill is a losing proposition any way you look at it and I hope that my Republican colleagues have the sense and the decency to help us defeat this bill today.”
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON— Bipartisan, bicameral legislation to reduce duplicative filing costs for small businesses looking to offer retirement plans to their employees was introduced today in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. The legislation was introduced in the House by Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, and Congressman Phil Roe (R-TN), a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. The legislation was sponsored in the Senate by U.S. Sens. Mark R. Warner (D-VA), a member of the Senate Finance Committee, and Susan Collins (R-ME), the Chairman of the Senate Aging Committee. “As the nature of work continues to change, increasing access to workplace retirement plans is a crucial step in providing a secure retirement to millions of Americans,” Sen. Warner said. “For smaller employers, offering a retirement plan can be expensive and complex, so we should make it easier and reduce duplicative filing costs for them to offer retirement plans and promote retirement security for all workers.” “Americans simply aren’t saving enough to be able to afford a comfortable retirement. In fact, there is an estimated $7.7 trillion gap between what Americans have saved for retirement and what they will actually need,” said Senator Collins. “When employers provide their employees with access to retirement plans, approximately 80 percent of them contribute. Our legislation will help promote retirement security by making it easier and less expensive for small businesses to establish retirement plans, increasing their accessibility to employees and helping to ensure that those who worked hard for decades do not spend their retirement in poverty.” The legislation was unanimously approved by the Senate Finance Committee in the 114th Congress. “Too many Americans simply aren’t putting enough money away to be able to afford a secure retirement. By helping more small businesses provide workplace retirement plans we can give millions of hardworking families more financial peace of mind,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan and bicameral legislation to make it easier and less expensive for small businesses to establish retirement plans for their workers. This common sense legislation will help provide greater retirement security to more Americans.” “With nearly 40 million working families who haven’t saved a dime for retirement, it is imperative we do all we can to help encourage affordable, accessible retirement savings,” said Congressman Roe. “By alleviating duplicative reporting requirements for plan administrators, we are making it easier for small businesses to provide secure retirement plans to their workers and reducing the costs for small business owners who provide retirement plans.” A 2016 report by the Pew Charitable Trusts found that only 22 percent of workers at small firms have access to a workplace savings plan or pension, compared to 74 percent at firms with 500 or more employees. For smaller employers, offering a retirement plan can be expensive and complex. The bill directs the Department of Labor (DOL) and the Treasury Department to allow employers and sole-proprietors participating in retirement plans administered in the same way to file a single aggregated Form 5500, a required annual return that provides important compliance information to DOL and Treasury. Under current law, despite sharing a common administrative framework, each individual plan is still required to file a separate Form 5500 to satisfy reporting requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and the Internal Revenue Code. Today’s proposal will eliminate duplicative reporting by plan administrators, which will reduce costs for small businesses that maintain retirement plans. To file an aggregated Form 5500, the retirement plans would need to have the same trustee, fiduciary, plan administrator, plan year and investment menu. The self-employed, including sole proprietors and small business owners, are the most likely to establish a retirement savings plan that would benefit from and meet the requirements necessary to file an aggregated Form 5500. According to 2016 survey findings from the Transamerica Center for Retirement Studies, in collaboration with Aegon Center for Longevity and Retirement, only one-third of self-employed respondents indicated that they make sure they are saving for retirement. To provide DOL and Treasury time to implement this change, the proposal has an effective date of no later than January 1, 2021. A copy of the legislative text is available here. ###
03.22.2017	Washington, DC – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) and Representative Paul Cook (CA-8) today introduced legislation to honor Vietnam War veterans. The resolution, H.Res.214, designates the last Saturday in March as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” and coincides with the anniversary of the day when the last United States combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. Reps. Sánchez and Cook introduced this resolution in 2016. Rep. Linda Sánchez: “From 1961 to 1975 millions of young men and women bravely answered the call to duty and fought in the Vietnam War. However, they never received the appropriate recognition when they returned home. Today, states and cities all across our country have adopted ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ resolutions to recognize the sacrifices made by our Vietnam veterans. It is time for our country to officially recognize and commemorate their service. I’m proud to introduce this resolution with Rep. Paul Cook, a decorated Marine and Vietnam veteran, on behalf of our veterans who fought bravely in the Vietnam War.” Rep. Paul Cook: “When I was a California State Assemblyman, I led the successful fight to establish ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ for California. Now I’m proud to continue this fight on the federal level. I’ll never forget the men and women who served with me in Vietnam. Their courage and heroism in a war zone is something that inspires and drives me every day to fight for veterans. The sacrifice of this generation of veterans cannot be underestimated or forgotten. I thank Congresswoman Sánchez for joining me in introducing this resolution.” Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Resolution Text: Expressing support for designation of a ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’. Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in Vietnam from 1961 to 1975, and involved North Vietnam and the Viet Cong in conflict with the United States Armed Forces and South Vietnam; Whereas the United States became involved in Vietnam because policymakers in the United States believed that if South Vietnam fell to a Communist government then Communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961; Whereas as a result of the Gulf of Tonkin incidents on August 2, 1964, and August 4, 1964, Congress overwhelmingly passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, on August 7, 1964, which effectively handed over war-making powers to President Johnson until such time as ‘‘peace and security’’ had returned to Vietnam; Whereas in 1965, United States Armed Forces ground combat units arrived in Vietnam; Whereas by the end of 1965, there were 80,000 United States troops in Vietnam, and by 1969 a peak of approximately 543,000 troops was reached; Whereas on January 27, 1973, the Treaty of Paris was signed, which required the release of all United States prisoners-of-war held in North Vietnam and the withdrawal of all United States Armed Forces from South Vietnam; Whereas on March 29, 1973, the United States Armed Forces completed the withdrawal of combat troops from Vietnam; Whereas March 30, 1973, was the first day that combat troops were no longer present in Vietnam; Whereas more than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives in Vietnam and more than 300,000 members of the Armed Forces were wounded; Whereas in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial was dedicated in the District of Columbia to commemorate those members of the United States Armed Forces who died or were declared missing-in-action in Vietnam; Whereas the Vietnam War was an extremely divisive issue among the people of the United States; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces who served bravely and faithfully for the United States during the Vietnam War were caught upon their return home in the crossfire of public debate about the involvement of the United States in the Vietnam War; Whereas the establishment of a ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appropriate way to honor those members of the United States Armed Forces who served in Vietnam during the Vietnam War; and Whereas the last Saturday of March 2016 would be an appropriate day to establish as ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— supports the designation of ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’; honors and recognizes the contributions of veterans of the Armed Forces who served in Vietnam; and encourages the people of the United States to observe ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’ with appropriate ceremonies and activities that promote awareness of the contributions of veterans who served in Vietnam and the importance of helping Vietnam era veterans re-adjust to civilian life. ###
03.17.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, today introduced H.R. 1583: Protecting Our Widows and Widowers in Retirement (POWR) Act: “Losing a spouse is devastating, and the financial distress of also losing their income only adds to the pain," said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The POWR Act ensures that in their darkest hours, those on Social Security will still be able to have some financial security and peace of mind. Instead of losing half of their monthly household income, seniors will be able to keep a little more of their combined benefits. After a lifetime of hard work, seniors deserve to retire with dignity in their later years. And losing your spouse should not also lead to financial ruin.” Nancy Altman, Founding Co-Director of Social Security Works – “Among Social Security's most important protections are the monthly survivor annuities, currently paid to over four million widows and widowers. But these benefits are very modest and often represent a drastic drop in family income. Women and men who have just lost their spouses should not also face a substantial loss of income that puts them at risk of poverty. The POWR act takes the important step of increasing survivors' benefits so that widows and widowers can live with dignity." Kevin Prindiville, Executive Director of Justice in Aging – “Justice in Aging supports Rep. Sanchez’s efforts to ensure that older adults who recently lost a spouse do not also lose their economic security. Everyone who has an aging grandparent, parent, or other loved one can understand why this bill is important to the well-being of surviving spouses.” Background According to the National Academy of Social Insurance, women suffer a greater financial hit following the loss of a loved one. The NASI has said, “The benefits are important to women because wives tend to earn less than their husbands and they typically outlive their husbands – both because women live longer than men, on average, and because wives tend to be a few years younger than their husbands.” The average widow sees a 33 to 50 percent reduction in Social Security benefits after the death of her spouse. However, on average, an elderly person needs 79 percent of the income received while both were alive to maintain their standard of living. The POWR Act which would create an alternative benefit equal to 75 percent of the combined income received while both spouses were alive. Congresswoman Sánchez first introduced this legislation in 2016. H.R. 1583: Protecting Our Widows and Widowers in Retirement (POWR) Act currently has 16 co-sponsors.
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement on the massive cuts to essential domestic programs outlined in President Trump’s budget blueprint: "The hits just keep on coming for the middle class. The President's budget sweeps the legs out from under working families by cutting funding for everything from education and infrastructure investments to FEMA disaster relief and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Everyone in the family will feel the painful effects of the cuts included in this budget. “The proposal would eliminate the Community Development Block Grant, which in part funds Meals on Wheels – literally taking food away from seniors. It cuts the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program which helps millions of working families stay out of the freezing cold in the winter. And it cuts the competitive Department of Transportation TIGER grant program which helps support infrastructure construction projects, including a $15 million award for a project in my district to improve traffic flow, making our roads safer, cleaner, and more efficient. "This budget only adds to the challenges for struggling families trying to get ahead. It makes massive cuts to essential programs that help support working men and women, children, and seniors. I don't think this budget is a better way for middle class families. It is the wrong direction for our country."
03.13.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the report released by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) detailing the destruction caused by the House GOP repeal bill: “The Republican repeal plan breaks President Trump’s promise of ‘great health care at a fraction of the cost,’” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The truth is you will get less care at higher costs. The CBO report shows that the Republican plan cuts nearly a trillion dollars from Medicare and Medicaid, raises premiums on hardworking Americans, and takes away insurance coverage for 24 million people. This report adds to the mounting evidence that the Republican ‘Better Way’ agenda is actually the wrong way for working families.” “Instead of providing lower costs and covering more people, the Republican bill takes away high quality health insurance from millions of Americans while giving tax cuts to the wealthiest 400 households,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “That means the men and women in my district will pay for billions in tax cuts for the rich with their health and their money. This bill is a bad deal for my constituents and a bad deal for America’s working families. It needs to crawl back into the dark crevice in the Speaker’s office where it came from.”
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and member of the House Ways and Means Committee, this evening released the following statement on the Republican plan to repeal health care for the American people: “The latest Republican proposal is an assault on the health and wellbeing of the American people. It’s no wonder Republicans chose to hide this bill from the public for so long. Never before has 124 pages of legislation taken so much away from so many people. Among the many terrible things in this bill, Republicans have taken away affordable health care for millions of Americans, raised costs for seniors, and put Medicare at risk. The best thing Americans can do for their health under the Republican proposal is to never get sick. “Essentially, the plan released this evening means Americans will pay more and get less. It increases costs for seniors while giving millionaires and billionaires six-figure tax cuts. It guts the protections from health insurance companies Americans have come to rely upon when they get sick. It provides little help when people get sick or need emergency care. Nothing in the Republican proposal is what I would call a ‘better way.’” ###
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, this morning called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign following damning revelations in the media that the Attorney General lied under oath about his contacts with Russian government officials during his confirmation hearings: “Attorney General Sessions, in his confirmation hearings, swore to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. He apparently did not. The recent revelations that the Attorney General lied under oath about his contacts with Russian government officials only adds to the continued deceptions by the Trump Administration. It is unconscionable that America’s top law enforcement officer could fail such a basic tenant of our legal system. “The Attorney General breached a duty so fundamental to the responsibilities of the office he swore to uphold. The Attorney General must resign immediately.”
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released a statement following President Donald Trump’s address to a Joint Session of Congress: “The president’s address tonight was simply surreal. The rhetoric does not match reality. Instead of uniting our country, since the first day of his Presidency, Donald Trump has used fear and mistrust to divide this country. What we have seen from this president is one divisive and destructive executive order after another. Not a single one will actually help Americans get a job or make more money. “We all know that talk is cheap. The American people are waiting and watching to see if the president will deliver on the promises he has made. If he is truly serious about keeping all of the commitments he made tonight to the American people, then he needs to stop attacking minority groups and start bringing our country together. And it begins with his actions. “I am a firm believer that we all do better when everyone has an equal opportunity. Until I see the president and Congressional Republicans walk away from the divisive politics of fear and blame, I will not be convinced that they truly have the best interests of our entire country at heart.” ###
02.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Linda Sánchez delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. Remarks in Spanish are available here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello. I’m California Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. “I am proud to share my family’s story because it is an American story. I am the daughter of immigrants. My parents came here from Mexico. “Like so many immigrants, my parents came to this country and worked hard every day to provide for me, my six brothers and sisters. “My father, Ignacio, was an industrial mechanic. My mother, Maria, became an elementary school teacher after first raising a family. “They owned their own home. They sent all seven of their children to college. And we give back every day to this country we love. “In fact – my parents are the only parents in our nation’s 240-year history to send – not one – but TWO daughters to the United States Congress! “My mother and father saved and sacrificed to achieve the American Dream for our family. They weren’t handed their success – they earned it! “Immigrants, like my parents, are working and contributing to the success of our country every day. They are starting businesses which create jobs, caring for our children and aging parents, serving in our military, and they harvest and prepare the food we eat. “Immigrants are woven into the fabric of our country because we are and always will be a nation of immigrants. “Recently we have seen the President use fear – fear of Muslims and fear of immigrants – as a tool to promote his misguided and poorly developed policies. “Policies that not only undermine our American values, but also jeopardize our safety and harm our economy. “Democrats agree that removing violent criminals should be the priority. “But tearing families apart through mass deportations does not make our country safer and wastes our precious resources. Banning refugees who have already been thoroughly vetted wastes resources. Building useless walls instead of fixing our roads and bridges wastes resources. “We cannot let the politics of fear and suspicion, distract us from our priorities. “Democrats want to make this country work for all Americans. We believe in making America greater by fighting for economic growth that benefits everyone. “Our agenda is simple: Keep America safe, keep America working, and keep America moving forward. “And I know that so many of you share those same priorities. “Over the past month, millions of Americans are getting involved and taking action in their communities. “We have seen organized demonstrations in cities all across our country. Men and women from every walk of life coming together to stand up and speak out against a hateful and divisive agenda. “They are sending a clear message: We will resist. We will persist. “It was volunteer lawyers with laptops sitting on cold airport floors that led the fight against the President’s reckless Muslim ban. “It was a group of entrepreneurial women who organized a march in Washington with crowds surpassing the inauguration. “President Lincoln said, ‘Public sentiment is everything.’ Because in this country, it is the people who have the ultimate power. “I beg you, keep flexing your power. “The fight we are in right now is not a fight over politics. It is a fight for the future of our country. And we are in this fight together. “If you share our commitment to the success of working men and women all across our nation, stay with us in this fight. “Do not give up hope. Do not give in to anger and fear. Do not stop fighting for what you think is best for our country. If we keep up the fight – we will win. “And together we will make our country even greater. “Thank you. And may God bless the United States of America.”
02.07.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today introduced two pieces of legislation to honor the hard work of school counselors across the country. The first bill would make the week of February 6, 2017 "National School Counselors Week." The second bill, Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act, would create a demonstration project to fund additional secondary school counselors aimed at reducing the drop-out rate in at-risk schools. Rep. Linda Sánchez statement: “School counselors play an important role in the lives of young students. These role models help shape the futures of millions of high school students across the country and help set them on the path toward success. However, because the average counselor-to-student ratio is nearly double what’s recommended, many school counselors are unable to provide the support and guidance each student deserves. This legislation will help ensure our children have the support they need to achieve a quality education and honors the hard work done by school counselors to make our future brighter.” Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act Background Congresswoman Sánchez is a leading advocate for the importance of school counselors in America’s high schools. She has been the author of the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” which provides funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. The current counselor-to-student ratio in America's schools is 471 to one, which is nearly double the 250 to one ratio recommended by the American School Counselors Association and the National Association for College Admissions. In California, the need is even greater. In California the counselor-to-student ratio is one for every 822 students. Legislative Overview: Current federal law provides federal support to promote school and student improvement, but does not comprehensively and expressly focus on addressing the present day national need for more high school counselors. This legislation would amend Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, to create a demonstration project to fund additional secondary school counselors aimed at reducing the drop-out rate in at-risk schools. Grants would be made available, on a competitive basis, to a minimum of ten secondary schools from at least five different states that receive funds under Title I of the Education Act. In order to qualify, the school must have a four-year adjusted cohort graduation rate of 60 percent or lower. The grant will be for a four-year period and may be used to provide additional school counselors as well as additional resources for existing school counselors. Funds for this act are meant to supplement, not supplant, funds from non-federal sources. The additional counselors provided through these funds must be in addition to any employees already working in the secondary school guidance or counseling office. Authorizes $5,000,000 for each of the next four fiscal years. Additional school counselors would be responsible for identifying students at risk of not graduating in four years and working with these students in need. These counselors would be encouraged to identify such students before they enter grade nine, but are permitted to identify students at-risk at any time. Counseling services would be provided as long as necessary. Services under this Act may include developing a graduation plan, course placement advice, and providing tutoring with supplemental books and materials. Services would also include scheduled meetings with not just the student at-risk, but also the teachers, tutors, parents, and other relevant individuals (i.e. the probation officer, employer, or coach of each student).
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “Nominations to the United States Supreme Court are one of the most important decisions a president makes. The lasting effects of the court’s decisions can shape the direction of our legal system for decades. This is why the U.S. Senate must be deliberate and transparent in their review of Judge Neil Gorsuch’s nomination. The American people deserve to know all the facts about who will sit on the Supreme Court and where Judge Gorsuch stands on the important issues that will affect their daily lives.” ###
02.01.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, along with Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) and 62 House Democrats, today introduced H.R. 813, ACCESS Act, to restore the year-round eligibility for Pell Grants: Rep. Linda Sánchez: “I know firsthand the struggle students from working families like mine face achieving their dream of going to college. Through a combination of financial aid and working part-time jobs, I was able to graduate from the University of California, Berkeley in four years. The ACCESS Act will restore year-round Pell Grants for more than 8 million students who are working hard to earn their college degree. This bill is a common sense investment in our nation’s future that will yield enormous returns.” Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard: “I am proud to help introduce the ACCESS Act so that we can reauthorize Year Round Pell Grants. Education can help many of our student constituents reach the middle class, but right now just 21 percent of America’s low-income students get their bachelor’s degrees by age 24. Reauthorizing year-round Pell Grants will help more of these students complete their higher education and graduate faster and with less debt.” National Association for College Admission Counseling statement: “The National Association for College Admission Counseling (NACAC) thanks Congresswoman Sanchez for introducing this legislation. The ACCESS Act will help make college more affordable for thousands of students and allow them to complete their degree in a timely manner. NACAC urges Congress to pass this legislation in a timely manner.” Background The ACCESS Act would restore the year-round Pell Grant eligibility which was eliminated in 2011. Currently, the Pell Grant only covers tuition from the fall to the spring semesters. However, students receiving Pell Grants often have to take more classes during summer or intersession semesters to graduate on time as many have to balance work and school. The lack of Pell Grants in the summer or intersession semesters means these students have to take out additional student loans — or simply skip the semester entirely. Studies show that students who take a “gap semester” are more likely to put their studies on hold, default on student loans or drop out altogether. The ACCESS Act would bridge the gap for these students by restoring year-round Pell Grants and allow both part-time and full-time students to receive the grant. Restoring year-round Pell grants would help an estimated one million students graduate sooner and with less debt. 62 Original Co-Sponsors Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC) Rep. Pete Aguilar (D-CA) Rep. Ami Bera (D-CA) Rep. Donald Beyer (D-VA) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-CA) Rep. Kathy Castor (D-FL) Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA) Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) Rep. John Delaney (D-MD) Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX) Rep. Al Green (D-TX) Rep. Gene Green (D-TX) Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) Rep. Joseph Kennedy (D-MA) Rep. Dan Kildee (D-MI) Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) Rep. Annie Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA) Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY) Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA) Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI) Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA) Rep. Rick Nolan (D-MN) Rep. Ed Perlmutter (D-CO) Rep. Scott Peters (D-CA) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) Rep. Jose Serrano (D-NY) Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH) Rep. Krysten Sinema (D-AZ) Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA) Rep. Darren Soto (D-FL) Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-CA) Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA) Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA) Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA) Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-FL) Rep. John Yarmuth (D-KY) ###
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement on legislation authored by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) to rescind President Donald Trump’s unconstitutional Muslim Ban executive order: “We are better than this. Banning Muslim immigrants and refugees does not make our country safer. In fact, it does the exact opposite by playing into the hands of America’s enemies. “I am proud to stand with House Democrats to introduce legislation which will overturn the President’s unconstitutional Muslim ban. Now we need courageous Republicans to stand up and speak out against these hateful anti-refugee, anti-immigrant executive orders. I implore my Republican colleagues to join with Democrats and wipe away this shameful stain on our country. Now is not the time to stay silent and hope for the best. If we fail to change course, history will not be kind to those who stood by and did nothing.”
01.25.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Anti-Immigrant executive orders: “America is and always will be a nation of immigrants and refugees. The story of our country is of people from all over the world who came here in search of‎ a better life. The anti-immigrant executive orders signed today by President Trump run counter to the best values and traditions of our country. The United States is the shining light of freedom, liberty, and prosperity to the world. We welcome all who are willing to work hard to achieve their American dream. A wall is the exact opposite of what America stands for. “What’s worse, like his broken promise to show his tax returns after the election, President Trump has no capability to tell the truth about who will pay for his beloved wall. One way or another Americans will end up footing the bill for this absurd reckless spending. This is a waste of everyone’s time and money, and does not address the fundamental need for comprehensive reform to fix our broken immigration system. If history has taught us anything it is that walls are expensive, unnecessary and people ultimately find ways around them.”
01.23.2017	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today introduced two new pieces of legislation, the FAIR Act and RIGGED Act, which will strengthen existing anti-nepotism laws and bring the financial disclosure process for the President into conformity with Members of Congress: “The American people should be confident that when the President makes decisions he is putting the interests of the United States of America first, not his bank account,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “That is why I have introduced a presidential ethics package which will strengthen our existing anti-nepotism laws and ensure the President of the United States is held to the same financial disclosure standards as Members of Congress. Transparency and accountability should not be the first victims of the Trump administration.” “Our Founding Fathers wanted every person to be accountable under the law, including the President. President-elect Donald Trump is challenging the fundamental checks and balances of our Constitution in a way not seen since President Nixon,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “Mr. Trump’s personal and financial entanglements along with his mountain of conflicts of interest pose a serious threat to the integrity of the Office of the President. President-elect Trump’s extensive foreign financial interests go beyond that of any previous office holder and we must update our laws to protect the credibility of our democracy.” BACKGROUND Financial Accountability in Reporting (FAIR) Act: The FAIR Act would clarify the Ethics in Government Act (EIGA) to ensure that the President is held to the same financial disclosure standards as Members of Congress and their senior staff. Newly elected Presidents have historically filed financial disclosures in their first year in office, just as Members of Congress do. However, the President-elect has refused to confirm that he will play by the same rules or observe the same traditions as his predecessors. Under the current interpretation of the EIGA, the President-elect could conceivably refuse to file a financial disclosure until August 2018 — almost half way into his first term — while newly elected Members of Congress and new senior staff are required to file by May 15th of this year. This bill would guarantee that Presidents follow longstanding norms of public disclosure and transparency. Relatives in Government Getting Employment Dishonorably (RIGGED) Act: The RIGGED Act will provide accountability and oversight by updating federal anti-nepotism laws to ensure that the President cannot hire his relative as an advisor. Specifically, this bill will clarify that the term “agency” applies to any position in the White House or Executive Office of the President. In addition, this bill will clarify that if a relative is hired, no money can be used from the Treasury as salary or expense. For example, currently a federal employee (including elected officials) cannot use funds from the Treasury to enrich a relative. However, that would seem to allow the hiring of a relative so long as the relative forgoes pay. This provision tightens the language to say, even if a relative is hired, funds cannot be used to aid them in doing their job; effectively making performance of their responsibilities impossible. Finally, this bill broadens the language defining a civilian position to mean any existing or newly created position, including a person acting in a professional or official capacity, regardless of whether the position is voluntary or gratuitous, or authorized by law to be compensated. ###
11.30.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today was elected by her colleagues to serve as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus for the 115th Congress, the fifth-ranking position in House Democratic leadership. After the election, Rep. Sánchez released the following statement: “I am honored to have the confidence and support of my colleagues, and I look forward to working on behalf of the entire Democratic Caucus. Every day I will do everything I can to strengthen our Democratic Caucus and put us in the strongest position. Together with Leader Nancy Pelosi, Whip Steny Hoyer, Assistant Leader James Clyburn, and Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley, House Democrats will fight for an agenda to help every working family achieve their American Dream. “I have the utmost respect for Rep. Barbara Lee and thank her for running a spirited campaign. She will continue to be a leading member of our Caucus. We all value her knowledge and passion which will be critical to our success as we move forward together.” “Let’s get to work.” Rep. Linda Sánchez was nominated to the position of Vice Chair by Reps. John Larson (D-CT), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), and Pete Aguilar (D-CA). ###
11.15.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today joined more than 120 House Democratic colleagues in signing a letter to President-elect Donald Trump urging he rescind his appointment of alt-right leader Steve Bannon as Chief White House Strategist. The full text of the letter to the President-elect is embedded below. ---------- Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. ###
09.09.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), and Mark Pocan (D-WI) along with 45 original co-sponsors today introduced H.R. 5952, the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2016: Rep. Linda Sánchez: “Social Security is the bedrock of the American retirement system. It ensures that after a lifetime of hard work, our grandmothers and grandfathers can retire with dignity and security. Nearly 59 million Americans rely on Social Security for all or part of their earnings. When fully implemented, the Strengthening Social Security Act will raise monthly benefits and extend the life of the trust fund from 2034, to 2048. We must do more to secure the safety net for our grandmothers and grandfathers. Passing the Strengthening Social Security Act is the necessary first step.” Rep. Mike Honda: “This year, Americans relying on Social Security did not receive any cost of living increase, despite rapidly rising healthcare costs and other expenses. This is not acceptable. We have a simple solution, however, to ensure that senior citizens have the resources they need and that Social Security remains robust for future generations. That’s why I am proud to join Rep. Linda Sánchez to introduce the Strengthening Social Security Act. This could mean the difference between comfort and hunger for our senior friends and family, between health and severe sickness, and even between shelter and homelessness.” Rep. Mark Pocan: “Social Security is a promise we make to people like my mother, who rely on these benefits for financial security. This bill ensures the health and prosperity of our seniors, our veterans, and people with disabilities. Expanding and strengthening the program is critical to protecting the livelihoods of our seniors while providing a boost to our overall economy.” Nancy Altman, Founding Co-Director, Social Security Works: “Social Security Works strongly applauds Representative Linda Sanchez for her visionary leadership in sponsoring the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2016. Among its many strengths, this important legislation provides current and future beneficiaries with a much needed increase in Social Security’s modest benefits. It also restores the trust funds to long range actuarial balance. This legislation represents a key part of the solution to the nation's looming retirement income crisis as well as other serious challenges facing the nation." Max Ritchman, President and CEO of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare: “America’s seniors understand all too well that our nation faces a retirement crisis and improving Social Security benefits is vital to keeping millions from poverty. Rep. Linda Sanchez’s ‘Strengthening Social Security Act’ makes several important improvements for seniors by: phasing out the payroll tax cap so that the wealthy pay their fair share, creating a Cost of Living adjustment for the elderly and boosting benefits for all retirees including widows/widowers. NCPSSM strongly supports this legislation and applauds Congresswoman Sanchez for doing the right thing for America’s seniors and their families.” Terry O'Neill, President of the National Organization of Women: “Women are especially vulnerable to financial insecurity during their retirement years. After a lifetime spent working for lower wages than men, often in jobs without pensions or retirement savings accounts, many rely on Social Security for support. For nearly thirty percent of female beneficiaries over the age of 65, social security is virtually their only source of income. The Strengthening Social Security Act of 2016 would expand the resources available to these individuals. Increasing monthly insurance benefits for widows and widowers, and adjusting the means for calculating seniors’ cost-of-living requirements, will have a measurable impact on women’s lives.” Richard Fiesta, Executive Director of the Alliance for Retired Americans: “Seniors are struggling to make ends meet. This bill would give the average beneficiary an additional $800 per year to help pay their living expenses and we applaud Representatives Sanchez and Honda for introducing it.” Bill Samuel, Director of Government Affairs, AFL-CIO: “Working families applaud Rep. Linda Sanchez for tackling the nation’s retirement income crisis with legislation expanding Social Security’s vital earned-benefits. The Strengthen Social Security Act provides across-the-board benefit increases, makes COLA’s more accurate and strengthens Social Security’s solvency for future generations.” Strengthening Social Security Coalition: “On behalf of the over 350 national, state, and local organizations that form the Strengthen Social Security Coalition, we enthusiastically endorse Representative Linda Sanchez’s legislation, the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2016. Her well-crafted bill builds upon President Franklin Roosevelt’s foundation by expanding the Social Security program in a number of important ways, while strengthening the program's long range funding." BACKGROUND The Strengthening Social Security Act will increase benefits, ensure the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) adequately reflects the cost of living, and improve the financial condition of the Trust Fund. Specifically, this bill: Increases the formula factor for the first bend point to 95% over 5 years. Increases the first bend point by 15%. Replaces CPI-W with CPI-E for the purpose of calculating COLA’s. Phases out the taxable cap of $118,500. Increases widow/ers benefits to the greater of 75% of combined benefits, or the Primary Insurance Amount. Holds SSI recipients harmless for any increase in benefits enacted through this bill. Through these changes, beneficiaries can expect to see an increase in monthly benefits. While more needs to be done to preserve and protect Social Security for future generations, these changes are an important first step and will give seniors the peace of mind they deserve. Original Co-Sponsors Reps. Karen Bass (D-CA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Judy Chu (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), John Conyers Jr. (D-MI), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), William Keating (D-MA), James Langevin (D-RI), John Larson (D-CT), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), John Yarmuth (D-KY) ###
08.02.2016	Norwalk, CA – Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) invites constituents to attend her 14th Annual Senior Fair. Every year, more than 1,000 seniors and dozens of local organizations participate in this free community event. Attendees will have the opportunity to receive: Free health screenings for blood pressure, glucose, memory retention, vision, and skin/sun damage; Health education and information about food assistance programs; Information and advice regarding tax scams targeted at seniors, housing, and health and retirement benefits; Consultation with the Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, and senior advocacy organizations; Consumer protection education; And much more! Transportation may be available through local senior centers. Seniors can contact Rep. Linda Sánchez’s Norwalk office at (562) 860-5050 for more information. WHAT: Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ 14th Annual Senior Fair WHEN: Friday, August 12, 2016 9:00 AM – 12:00 Noon WHERE: Cerritos College, Student Center 11190 Alondra Blvd. Norwalk, CA 90650 RSVP: Reporters/photographers interested in participating should contact Alex Nguyen at Alex.Nguyen@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-6676. ###
07.27.2016	NORWALK, CA - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today announced a $15 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) for the Rosecrans/Marquardt grade separation project in Santa Fe Springs: “I am very pleased that after seeing the full support of LA Metro, many Members of Congress, and our two U.S. Senators, the Department of Transportation recognized the national and regional importance of the Rosecrans/Marquardt grade separation project,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Transportation is the lifeblood of Los Angeles’ economy. This project will improve traffic flow, making our roads safer, cleaner, and more efficient, as we move freight from the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach on to markets across the country.” In May 2016, Rep. Linda Sánchez sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx strongly supporting LA Metro’s TIGER grant application for the Rosecrans/Marquardt grade separation project. See the full letter here. “Metro is appreciative to the U.S. Department of Transportation for awarding a $15 million TIGER grant for the Rosecrans/Marquardt grade separation project in Santa Fe Springs,” remarked Metro CEO Phil Washington. “We are especially grateful to a number of Members of Congress – including U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein, U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer and Congresswoman Linda Sanchez who expressed their strong and sustained support for this much needed TIGER grant. Working in a united way, with our valued partners, we look forward to building this much needed grade separation project.” TIGER Grant Background Launched in 2009, the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery, or TIGER Discretionary Grant program, provides USDOT funding for road, rail, transit and port projects that promise to achieve national objectives. Since the program’s inception, Congress has dedicated nearly $4.6 billion for seven rounds of TIGER funding to projects that have a significant impact on the Nation, a region or a metropolitan area. Project Background The project consists of a grade separation at Rosecrans Avenue and Marquardt Avenue, from the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway mainline double tracks in the City of Santa Fe Springs, California. Metro FAQs on Rosecrans Avenue and Marquardt Avenue Grade Separation Project ###
07.08.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Linda Sánchez (CA-38), David B. McKinley, P.E (WV-1), and Rep. Donald Norcross (NJ-01), today introduced H. Res. 784, a resolution to designate July 10 as National Journeyman Lineman Day: Rep. Linda Sánchez: “In every city and town in America, Journeyman Linemen constantly put themselves in danger to ensure reliable access to electricity for all. Risking perilous heights and energized electric lines, they represent a crucial and too often forgotten part of our nation’s infrastructure. This resolution honors the work and sacrifices of Journeyman Linemen in the development of our country. Every American should recognize that it took the labor of Journeyman Linemen to make the electricity which lights our homes, power our workplaces, and keeps our economy rolling possible.” Rep. David B. McKinley, P.E.: “The contributions of Journeyman Linemen to the foundation of our nation are simply immeasurable. Without their hard work, homes and businesses would not be able to function. Every day these workers show up to their job and take risks that allow millions of people from coast to coast to access reliable electricity. Their achievements should not be forgotten and the establishment of a National Journeyman Lineman Day will allow all of us to recognize and honor their efforts each and every year.” Rep. Donald Norcross: “As an electrician who worked for years on the tops of bridges and refineries, I know first-hand the dangers facing Journeyman Linemen. These individuals literally keep our country running every day, and are quick to respond when called upon to get the lights back on when power is knocked offline. These courageous men and women often brave the extremes—including severe weather and the treacherous conditions left behind in the aftermath of storms—just to get power flowing to America’s homes and businesses. These are the unsung heroes among us. I championed similar efforts to honor these men and women in my home state as a New Jersey legislator, and I’m proud to support this effort in Congress acknowledging their hard work.” BACKGROUND July 10 was selected as National Journeyman Lineman Day to honor a Journeyman Lineman leader, Henry Miller. Henry Miller, was the first elected president and founding member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, one of the largest and most diverse unions in our country. He began his career as a water boy on a government telegraph project in Texas at age 14. A year later, while working as a lineman Mr. Miller saw first-hand the dangerous conditions and subpar wages these vital workers faced. He traveled the country to organize his fellow linemen, and when the IBEW was formed in 1891, Miller’s peers chose him to be their leader. Unfortunately, Henry Miller’s life was cut short on July 10, 1896 while working to solve a power outage in Washington, D.C. It is in his honor that this resolution will recognize all Journeyman Linemen on that fateful day. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The Medicare Shared Savings Program is an Accountable Care Organization (ACO) through which health care providers join together to coordinate care for Medicare patients, as well as share together in a portion of the cost savings that they achieve. However, rural hospitals and Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) face severe barriers to participation within the Savings Program. Representatives Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) and Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the Rural ACO Provider Equity Act to remedy the situation. “Rural hospitals face challenges that urban healthcare centers never have to deal with. There are fewer resources and doctors available for rural healthcare providers who are trying to ensure high-quality healthcare services for their communities,” said Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins. “Being part of an Accountable Care Organization is a useful tool for healthcare providers to be able to pool resources, and maximize savings and Medicare reimbursement rates. However, rural hospitals can often be forced to miss out on these benefits because they simply don’t have the doctors available to certify their work. This legislation would change that unnecessary requirement, giving rural healthcare providers, such as the 9 FQHCs and 40 RHCs in the Second District, the opportunity to access the resources they need to improve and provide quality care to rural communities.” “Federally Qualified Health Centers in my district provide critical community-based care for millions of people who are underserved and uninsured. Serving this complex patient population makes care coordination difficult and makes it harder for an FQHC to qualify for cost savings under Accountable Care Organizations,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The Rural ACO Provider Equity Act levels the playing field for FQHCs and Rural Health Clinics with other health care providers when it comes to qualifying for ACOs. This bill gives the 11 FQHCs in my district the peace of mind to know they can compete with the larger health care providers for Medicare’s advanced care and payment models.” Items To Note Under current law, Medicare beneficiaries may receive services in Federally Qualified Health Centers or Rural Health Care Centers. However, these services only count as part of the Medicare Shared Savings Program if the RHC or FQHC sign-off that a physician performed the service. Rural healthcare providers may often have non-physicians perform services, depriving them of the ability to benefit from an ACO partnership. There are 40 RHCs and 9 FHCs within Congresswoman Jenkins’ congressional district in Kansas. There are 11 FHCs within Congresswoman Sánchez’s congressional district in California.
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.) and Peter Roskam (R-Ill.), along with U.S. Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) and Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), today introduced new bipartisan, bicameral legislation to support Alzheimer’s patients and caregivers, and lessen the mounting costs associated with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias on federal health programs. More than 15 million Americans are serving as a family caregiver to a loved one living with Alzheimer’s or dementia, providing nearly 18 billion hours of unpaid care annually. These caregivers face a great deal of stress and other physical, financial and emotional challenges, which can lead to patients prematurely entering into long-term care. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act calls on the Department of Health and Human Services to test whether providing Alzheimer’s disease caregiver support services can help keep patients in the home setting for longer periods of time, resulting in lower Medicare and Medicaid program costs. “I am proud to introduce the Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act which will provide support services for caregivers of people living with Alzheimer’s and related dementia. As someone whose parents suffer from this devastating illness, I am acutely aware of the pain and hardship that Alzheimer’s disease inflicts on families all across this country. Studies have shown that providing support to caregivers improves their capability to take care for their loved ones and keeps more Alzheimer’s patients in their own home. This bill addresses a critical need in our health care system and will finally provide help to those who care for our loved ones,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Having recently shared in the caregiving of parents with Alzheimer’s, I understand the difficulties that caregivers face and the significant costs involved,” said Senator Capito. “As of 2015, there were 108,000 Alzheimer’s and dementia caregivers who provided 123 million total hours of unpaid care across West Virginia – that unpaid care is valued at more than $1.5 billion. With 37,000 West Virginians currently living with Alzheimer’s, and the Medicaid costs for treating Alzheimer’s in West Virginia totaling $368 million, we must pursue solutions like the Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act to help ease the burden on patients, caregivers and federal health programs.” “Alzheimer's is a heartbreaking disease that affects the entire family,” said Senator Stabenow. “For the half million caregivers and 185,000 Alzheimer's patients in Michigan, we are working to make sure that more people affected by Alzheimer's can stay in their homes and with their families longer. Today's bill is an important step towards reducing the burden of care and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate and the House to move this forward.” “Nearly 5% of all Americans provide home care to a parent or relative‎ with Alzheimer's or dementia. They do so out of love, compassion, and kindness – and God bless them for their sacrifices. We, as lawmakers, must do more to support the physical, emotional, and financial challenges of home care-giving. I'm proud to introduce the Alzheimer's Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act as a first step to meet that responsibility,” said Congressman Roskam. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act is modeled after the New York University Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI) and similar programs across the country and the world, including at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. The NYUCI consists of individual and family counseling, participation in a caregiver support group, and ad-hoc counseling via telephone for caregivers and families managing the many challenges of caring for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease. For more than 25 years, this program has been shown to delay long-term care admission by more than a year-and-a-half and to improve caregiver health and well-being. Given this promising body of evidence and the mounting cost and burdens on federal health programs from Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, it is essential to examine this intervention and determine its potential impact on Medicare and Medicaid. The Alzheimer’s Beneficiary and Caregiver Support Act will provide us with these needed answers. To view a one-pager on the bill, click here. To view the bill text, click here.
06.25.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the third anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder: “Three years ago today the Supreme Court rolled back 50 years of progress with the disastrous Shelby County v. Holder decision. This gutted some of the basic protections that give all Americans the right to vote. As a result of the Shelby County decision, 2016 will be the first year since the Voting Rights Act became law in 1965, that voters will not have anti-discrimination protections at the ballot box. “Unfortunately, as we have seen with other Supreme Court decisions, the Shelby County decision was just the beginning of a larger agenda to restrict voting rights to minorities. Since then, conservative state legislatures across the country have passed laws designed to deliberately disenfranchise people of color, low-income individuals, persons with disabilities, young adults, and seniors. This year, more than 875,000 Latino voters will suddenly be subject to new voter ID requirements and over 13.1 million Latino voters are expected to cast ballots this November without voting rights protections. “Make no mistake, the Shelby County decision was an attack on the Latino community and the only way our community can stop these constant attacks is to raise our voices, to participate, and most importantly to vote. A core principle of our democracy is the ability for citizens to choose their representatives, not for elected officials to choose their voters. We cannot allow our voices to be silenced and we must do whatever it takes to exercise our right to vote. It is time for Congress to pass the Voting Rights Advancement Act to restore the VRA and ensure that all Americans have equal access to the ballot box.” BACKGROUND ON VOTING RIGHTS ADVANCEMENT ACT OF 2015 Rep. Linda Sánchez along with Congressman John Lewis (D-GA.) and Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-AL.) of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA.), chairwoman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, introduced the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015. Protections under the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 will extend to all voters nationwide. The legislation targets certain voting practices known to suppress the voting rights of minorities. The bill is the result of collaboration with those at the grassroots who have witnessed the harmful effects that discriminatory voting laws have had in their communities. An outline of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 can be found here, and a sectional analysis can be found here. Text of legislation can also be found online. BACKGROUND ON SHELBY COUNTY v. HOLDER The Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in Shelby County v. Holder that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was unconstitutional – essentially gutting the most powerful tool this nation has ever had to stop discriminatory voting practices from becoming law. Section 4 established the formulas for how the Justice Department enforces Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Section 5 requires states identified with a history of discrimination to obtain preclearance from the Justice Department before making changes to their election law. This impacted the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia; it also impacted parts of California, Florida, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, and South Dakota. After Shelby County v. Holder, these areas are free to make changes to election law or district maps without approval from the Justice Department. Following Shelby County v. Holder, state legislatures across the country have been far more active in creating hurdles to the ballot. According to the Brennan Center for Justice, at the beginning of the 2016 legislative session, and as of March 25, 2016, at least 77 bills to restrict access to registration and voting have been introduced or carried over from the prior session in 28 states. And 2016 will see the greatest expansion of barriers in the history of presidential elections with new voting restrictions in place in 17 states. Those 17 states are: Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Wisconsin. Since 2010, 22 states have implemented new voting restrictions. ###
06.15.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the fourth anniversary of DACA: “Four years ago, the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program was a shining light of hope for millions of immigrants in the United States living in the shadows. Since the program began in 2012 over 728,200 people have received relief under DACA. Today they are able to contribute to our communities, pursue higher education, and work without living in fear of deportation. “However, this fourth anniversary is marred by the latest assault by House Republicans on the Latino community. I am deeply disappointed and offended that House Republicans have introduced an amendment to the defense appropriations bill which would ban DACA recipients from enlisting in our military. These young men and women want to serve the only country many of them have ever called home. They should be honored and celebrated, not discriminated against. “While DACA was a major step in the right direction, there is still so much more we must do to fix our broken immigration system. Democrats will continue to push for sensible comprehensive immigration reform and defend President Obama’s policies which prioritize criminals for removal and keeping families together.”
06.09.2016	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), the Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today announced she will support H.R. 5278, The Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA): “Since June of last year, I have closely monitored the humanitarian crisis affecting 3.5 million American citizens living in Puerto Rico. I have spent the past year meeting with my constituents, members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Democratic Leadership, and Administration officials to discuss the best way forward for Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA) is not perfect, and I have strong objections to many of the provisions in the bill, but it is the bill before us today. “I disagree with the bill’s language on minimum wage, overtime protections, and earned retirement pension benefits. We should not value a person’s labor less simply because their work is completed on the Island and not the mainland. Hardworking people also deserve the peace of mind that their earned benefits will be there when the time comes to retire. As I have done throughout my career, and throughout this process, I will continue to press for an increased minimum wage, expanded overtime protections, and adequate pension funding for all workers. “Another concern I have with the PROMESA is the proposed structure and function of the Financial Management and Oversight Board. The Oversight Board should be representative and accountable to the people of Puerto Rico, not those who were merely appointed and not elected. “Nevertheless, despite my deep concerns, this is not about me and this is not about politics. I firmly believe that unless PROMESA is passed, Puerto Rico will default on its debt payments and will be forced to spend money on messy litigation instead of basic services. This crisis is a humanitarian one brought about by more than a decade of recession, debt, austerity, and mismanagement. “The 3.5 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico should have never had to suffer this long. We are finally in a position to provide Puerto Rico relief and that is why I am supporting PROMESA. Thanks to the leadership of President Barack Obama, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, Leader Nancy Pelosi, Ranking Member Raul Grijalva, and Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus who have been working tirelessly on behalf of the people of Puerto Rico, we now have bipartisan legislation that will help Puerto Rico out of this financial crisis and put it back on track to meet its essential obligations. “We cannot afford to keep kicking the can down the road as Republicans did last year. Puerto Rico is out of time and out of resources. We must pass PROMESA now. After thoroughly reviewing and considering the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act, I have decided to support the bill. Providing relief to the citizens living on the island of Puerto Rico is the principal objective and I believe this agreement is the best option to achieve that goal.” ###
06.07.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the House Republican's so-called "Poverty Plan": “Today, House Republicans released their poverty plan called 'A Better Way,' but their 'better way' is really just a reheated mess of the same old Republican ideology. Consolidating and streamlining critical anti-poverty programs is an insincere way of disguising Republican’s true intentions: sweeping cuts to vital programs through the use of block grants. To block grant these programs that so many across the county, and in my district, depend on would result in literally taking food out of children’s mouths. “House Republicans also propose unrealistic work requirements for the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance, housing assistance, and other programs. However, these proposed constraints ignore one fundamental fact: work requirements do not reduce poverty. The Republican plan also fails to address key necessities for working families to succeed. To assist hardworking Americans in their attempts to gain and keep employment, we cannot ignore essential issues families face such as a lack of affordable and accessible child care, education, and workforce training. These are critical pieces of the puzzle that help families climb the ladder of opportunity and lift themselves out of poverty.”
06.01.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the shooting at the UCLA campus: “As a member of the Bruin family, news of today’s shooting just broke my heart. I want to offer my deepest condolences to those who have been affected by this terrible tragedy. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the entire UCLA community. I know the Bruin community is strong and we will support each other through this difficult time.” ###
05.20.2016	Los Angeles, CA – U.S. Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard, Linda Sánchez, and Judy Chu today heard testimony from experts on the importance of strengthening voting rights protections at the “Protect Your Future: Restore the Vote” forum at East Los Angeles College. Held in conjunction with the Democratic Outreach & Engagement Task Force, the “Protect Your Future: Restore the Vote” forum hosted expert panelists for a discussion about steps Congress should take to ensure every American’s right to vote is protected. The Members of Congress were joined by U.S. Rep. Karen Bass; California Secretary of State Alex Padilla; Sean Dugar, Western Regional Field Director for the NAACP Western Region I; Stewart Kwoh, President and Executive Director – Asian Americans Advancing Justice - Los Angeles; Sandra Perez, National Director of Civic Engagement – NALEO Educational Fund; and Thomas A. Saenz, President and General Counsel – MALDEF. The forum examined the coordinated nationwide attack on voting rights for minorities, the legal erosion of the Voting Rights Act as a result of the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder, and the urgent need for Congress to pass legislation to strengthen and restore the Voting Rights Act. U.S. Rep. Linda Sánchez: “As we heard from our expert panel today, there is a coordinated effort to erode voting rights across the country. It’s no coincidence that these laws, most often crafted by Republican legislatures, are designed to deliberately disenfranchise people of color, low-income individuals, and seniors. The only way we can stop these constant attacks on our community is for Congress to pass comprehensive voting rights legislation like the Voting Rights Advancement Act to restore these vital protections.” U.S. Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard: “Today’s forum offered clear evidence that the right to vote is under attack. Our democracy cannot flourish unless every eligible voter is able to cast a ballot easily and conveniently. Sadly, many states are enforcing new barriers to voter registration and polling sites, primarily in communities of color. As a member of Congress, and as a member of the Democratic Outreach and Engagement Task Force, I am committed to fighting for full restoration of Voting Rights Act protections, and educating Angelenos and all Americans about the value of voting and civic engagement.” U.S. Rep. Judy Chu: “This forum could not come at a more important time. There’s a critical election coming up in California in just a few weeks, and later this year, we will have the opportunity to determine our next president. But before that happens, we have to make sure that each of our votes count. As Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I know that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders – like other communities of color - are no strangers to disenfranchisement. After 60 years of being kept from having a voice in our democracy by the Chinese Exclusion Act, the Voting Rights Act finally provided protections like translated voting materials, absentee ballots, and freedom from intimidation at the polls. Unfortunately, the Shelby decision opened the gates for states to begin rolling those protections back, once again isolating minority communities. That is why I am so happy to be a part of today’s important forum on the Voting Rights Advancement Act and what we can do to protect the right of all Americans to vote.” U.S. Rep. Karen Bass: “In my role on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I hear all the time about the United States extolling the virtues of free and fair elections and democracy. It seems ludicrous that we have to fight, given all the progress we’ve made and all the lecturing we have done around the world, to make sure we are being inclusive in our own voting laws. Rules to limit voting in states across the country are a stain on our democracy and worth fighting for.” Alex Padilla, California Secretary of State: “Voting rights are the foundation of our democracy. When more citizens vote our state is stronger and government is more representative of the people it serves. While other states are placing restrictions on voting, in California we are working to strengthen voting rights for all citizens. With the May 23rd voter registration deadline fast approaching I thank Representatives Sanchez, Bass, Chu, and Roybal-Allard for hosting a timely discussion on voting rights.” Sean Dugar, NAACP Western Regional Director: "Our members have marched, organized, fought and died for the right to unfettered access to the ballot box, which no longer has the full protection of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. This forum is a step in the direction getting Congress to pass the Voting Rights Advancement Act and other critical pro-democracy legislation to ensure every voice is heard and every vote is counted equally.” Stewart Kwoh, President and Executive Director of Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Los Angeles: “Former Section 5 jurisdictions are home to the most rapidly growing Asian American populations. The termination of Section 5 coverage comes at a pivotal moment for Asian American communities, which in recent years have begun to emerge politically in these states as they increase in size. I want to thank the leadership and vision of Congressmembers Chu, Roybal-Allard, and Sanchez in advocating for the restoration of Voting Rights through the Voting Rights Advancement Act. I call on Congress to come together to pass this bill and restore the protections needed to ensure a stronger democracy.” Arturo Vargas, National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) Educational Fund: “More than 875,000 eligible Latino voters will find it more difficult to vote this November than in 2012 because of restrictive lawmaking. Every individual has a part to play in protecting our electoral process from the ill effects of discriminatory laws and policies. As a community, working together, we can hold Congress accountable by bringing to light the problematic incidents that demonstrate the continued need for a robust Voting Rights Act.” Thomas A. Saenz, President and General Counsel of MALDEF (Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund): "Since 2013, the entire nation has suffered from congressional leadership's refusal to honor the enduring legacy of the civil rights movement by fixing the damage done to the Voting Rights Act through the decision of a narrow majority of the Supreme Court. Both voters who are deprived of their essential right to participate, and taxpayers in jurisdictions forced to pay the higher costs of adjudicating voting rights disputes, feel the palpable harm from this dereliction of congressional duty." BACKGROUND The Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in Shelby County v. Holder that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was unconstitutional – essentially gutting the most powerful tool this nation has ever had to stop discriminatory voting practices from becoming law. Section 4 established the formulas for how the Justice Department enforces Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Section 5 requires states identified with a history of discrimination to obtain preclearance from the Justice Department before making changes to their election law. This impacted the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia; it also impacted parts of California, Florida, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, and South Dakota. After Shelby County v. Holder, these areas are free to make changes to election law or district maps without approval from the Justice Department. Following Shelby County v. Holder, state legislatures across the country have been far more active in creating hurdles to the ballot. According to the Brennan Center for Justice, at the beginning of the 2016 legislative session, and as of March 25, 2016, at least 77 bills to restrict access to registration and voting have been introduced or carried over from the prior session in 28 states. And 2016 will see the greatest expansion of barriers in the history of presidential elections with new voting restrictions in place in 17 states. Those 17 states are: Alabama, Arizona, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Mississippi, Nebraska, New Hampshire, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and Wisconsin. Since 2010, 22 states have implemented new voting restrictions. ###
05.08.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Select Committee on Benghazi, issued the following statement on May 8th – the two year anniversary of the creation of the Benghazi Committee: “It’s been two years since House Republicans launched the Select Committee on Benghazi. After 731 days and nearly $7 million spent, this committee has not uncovered anything that has changed the essential facts that we already know from nine previous reports. Instead of a serious discussion about the events surrounding the tragedy in Benghazi, Republicans have chosen to use this investigation to bludgeon Secretary Clinton for their own political purposes. After two years, it should be abundantly clear to every American that this committee is obsessed with chasing unfounded conspiracy theories and not interested in the truth.” ###
05.02.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Congressional Anti-Bullying Caucus, sent a letter to Nuistars Inc., the developer of Ogle, a social media app which allows high school students to post photos, videos and text anonymously on campus specific forums. Ogle has been used to post threats to schools across the country, including a recent threat to Cerritos High School which turned out to be a hoax. In the letter to Nuistars, Rep. Linda Sánchez raised concerns about the lack of accountability for those posting inappropriate or offensive comments, pictures and videos to Ogle. The letter also asked Nuistars to address three specific questions on Ogle’s operations regarding threats and bullying: What mechanisms is Ogle using to report and review inappropriate content? How does Ogle cooperate with law enforcement? What recourse do individuals, many of whom are minors, have when lewd photos of them are posted without their consent? Full text of the letter Dear Mr. Jiang, Recently, a student anonymously posted a serious threat on the page of a high school in my district on Ogle. Since then, students, teachers and parents have raised alarm that Ogle users have also been posting inappropriate images, and pejorative comments about other students. While I understand the intent of this app is to “connect to your campus in a fun, creative way,” I, like many in my community, have concerns about the way this app is being used. Ogle allows students, many of whom are minors, to operate behind a wall of anonymity. As such, I am increasingly concerned by the amount of bullying and harassment on the app, and the lack of accountability for those posting. While school teachers and administrators have the ability and flexibility to address this kind of conduct on school grounds, they are not able to intervene in comments transmitted over the internet (cyberbullying). The anonymous posting of these comments makes it impossible to hold individuals accountable for derogatory, inappropriate and mean-spirited remarks that have major implications for the children they are targeting. More than one in four children in America will be bullied either at school or online. Bullying has serious consequences for youth. It contributes to high dropout rates, increased absenteeism, and significant underachievement, can lead to physical and psychological issues and in some tragic cases, suicide. Given the recent events in my district, I would appreciate a response to the questions below about Ogle’s policies and welcome any additional information about what Ogle is doing to combat cyber bullying. What mechanisms is Ogle using to report and review inappropriate content? How does Ogle cooperate with law enforcement? What recourse do individuals, many of whom are minors, have when lewd photos of them are posted without their consent? ###
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on last night’s protests at a Donald Trump rally in Costa Mesa, CA: “There’s no doubt Donald Trump’s candidacy has made the Latino community a target for hateful rhetoric, and in some cases physical violence, this election cycle. While I share the community’s anger and frustration, destroying public property is not the answer. When we resort to violence, we’re playing into the very hands of people like Donald Trump. I believe the solution must be peaceful protest and more importantly, directing our energy towards shifting our voter registration efforts into high gear. Only through civic engagement and participation in our democratic process can we ensure no candidate – for President of the United States or any other office – can ever treat our community the way Donald Trump has and expect to represent our country.”
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Roberta Jacobson to be the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico: “I’m relieved the Senate has finally acted to confirm Roberta Jacobson to be our ambassador to Mexico. There was never any justification for holding up the nomination of such a qualified candidate. Sadly, this drawn out 10-month process was purely politically motivated. “Mexico is one of our most important regional and economic partners, and maintaining our close relationship is crucial to the United States’ long-term success. I am confident Roberta Jacobson will do a terrific job representing the interests of the United States in Mexico.” ###
04.19.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today made the following floor statement on Senate Republican obstructionism on the nomination of Chief Judge Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court: ***Watch Video*** “Thank you, Mr. Conyers, for your leadership and for organizing this Special Order Hour to highlight the grave consequences of Senate Republican obstructionism by blocking a simple up or down vote on the nomination of Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court. “Republicans claim to love the Constitution yet refuse to acknowledge their constitutional duties. Senate Republicans have chosen to play politics instead of doing what’s right for the American people. “They simply do not want to do their job. “President Obama faithfully fulfilled his constitutional duty by nominating Chief Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court, but Senate Republicans refuse to even hold a hearing to consider Chief Judge Garland’s nomination. “This refusal to fulfill a constitutional duty to vet and vote on this nominee is indicative of Republican’s 8-year strategy of obstructing President Obama at every opportunity. “And who loses? The American people. “The worst excuse I’ve heard as to why Senate Republicans are shirking their constitutional duty is that the American people should have a say in the process. I’d like to remind my Senate Republican colleagues that the American people – including 11.2 million Latinos who voted in the 2012 election – already had a voice in this nomination. “The American people expressed their will when they overwhelmingly reelected President Obama to a second full term – with the understanding that if a vacancy occurred, it is part of the President’s duty to nominate a Supreme Court Justice. “I’d like to remind my Republican colleagues, a full Presidential term is four years, not just three. I know math can be hard so I wanted to make sure my Republican colleagues in the Senate were clear on that. “The vacancy before us is one that is critically important for all Americans, but especially for Latinos living in the United States. “The President has fulfilled his obligation, now it is time for the Republican Senators to do their job.” ###
04.04.2016	Washington, DC – Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, a member of the Ways and Means Committee, and Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, today released the following statement on the signing of California’s $15 minimum wage law: “This legislation is a major victory and will help improve the lives of millions of hard-working families across our state. This law ensures that hard work means a living wage for every Californian. With the strong leadership of Governor Brown, the State Legislature, and advocates for California’s working families, millions in our state can look forward to better opportunities. “While we have seen a strong recovery in the state’s economy since the Great Recession, wages have largely remained stagnant. The increase in the minimum wage to $15 per hour will help thousands of working families in my district that are struggling to make ends meet. It’s time Congressional Republicans recognize the dire situation of low-wage workers across the country and join with Democrats to raise the federal minimum wage for every working person in the United States.” ###
03.23.2016	Washington, DC – Representatives Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and Paul Cook (CA-8) introduced legislation this week honoring Vietnam War veterans. The resolution designates the last Saturday in March as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” and coincides with the anniversary of the day when the last United States combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. Rep. Linda Sánchez: “Too many of our Vietnam War veterans returned home to hostility and harsh ridicule from the American public. Many of these brave men and women came home from war injured both physically and emotionally, and had trouble reintegrating into an unwelcoming society. It is long overdue that these veterans be recognized and honored for their service to our country. I’m proud to introduce this resolution with Rep. Paul Cook, a decorated Marine and Vietnam veteran, on behalf of our veterans who fought bravely in the Vietnam War.” Rep. Paul Cook: “While working in the State Capitol, I led a successful fight to establish ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ for California, which dedicates March 30 as a day to remember the service and sacrifices of Vietnam Veterans. Now, I’m proud to continue this fight on the federal level and give these men and women the recognition that is so overdue. I’m a proud Vietnam Veteran myself. I saw combat there and witnessed tremendous acts of bravery and sacrifice. Due to the unpopularity of the war and the politics surrounding it, many of us faced tremendous hostility and condemnation upon returning home, which was disgraceful. I hope that creating ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ at the national level will help ensure that the sacrifices of Vietnam Veterans will not be forgotten. I thank Congresswoman Sánchez for joining me in introducing this resolution.” Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Resolution Text: Expressing support for designation of a ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’. Whereas the Vietnam War was fought in Vietnam from 1961 to 1975, and involved North Vietnam and the Viet Cong in conflict with the United States Armed Forces and South Vietnam; Whereas the United States became involved in Vietnam because policymakers in the United States believed that if South Vietnam fell to a Communist government then Communism would spread throughout the rest of Southeast Asia; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces began serving in an advisory role to the South Vietnamese in 1961; Whereas as a result of the Gulf of Tonkin incidents on August 2, 1964, and August 4, 1964, Congress overwhelmingly passed the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, on August 7, 1964, which effectively handed over war-making powers to President Johnson until such time as ‘‘peace and security’’ had returned to Vietnam; Whereas in 1965, United States Armed Forces ground combat units arrived in Vietnam; Whereas by the end of 1965, there were 80,000 United States troops in Vietnam, and by 1969 a peak of approximately 543,000 troops was reached; Whereas on January 27, 1973, the Treaty of Paris was signed, which required the release of all United States prisoners-of-war held in North Vietnam and the withdrawal of all United States Armed Forces from South Vietnam; Whereas on March 29, 1973, the United States Armed Forces completed the withdrawal of combat troops from Vietnam; Whereas March 30, 1973, was the first day that combat troops were no longer present in Vietnam; Whereas more than 58,000 members of the United States Armed Forces lost their lives in Vietnam and more than 300,000 members of the Armed Forces were wounded; Whereas in 1982, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial was dedicated in the District of Columbia to commemorate those members of the United States Armed Forces who died or were declared missing-in-action in Vietnam; Whereas the Vietnam War was an extremely divisive issue among the people of the United States; Whereas members of the United States Armed Forces who served bravely and faithfully for the United States during the Vietnam War were caught upon their return home in the crossfire of public debate about the involvement of the United States in the Vietnam War; Whereas the establishment of a ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’ would be an appropriate way to honor those members of the United States Armed Forces who served in Vietnam during the Vietnam War; and Whereas the last Saturday of March 2016 would be an appropriate day to establish as ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) supports the designation of ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’; (2) honors and recognizes the contributions of veterans of the Armed Forces who served in Vietnam; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe ‘‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’’ with appropriate ceremonies and activities that promote awareness of the contributions of veterans who served in Vietnam and the importance of helping Vietnam era veterans re-adjust to civilian life. ###
03.07.2016	Washington, DC- Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, along with Rep. Tom Reed (NY-27), also a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today announced the introduction of HR 4708: the Credit for Caring Act. The bipartisan bill would provide a tax credit for care giving expenses. “This is more than just another tax credit,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This is about how we can help older adults and people with disabilities live independently in their own homes and communities. This legislation will help alleviate some the burden on family caregivers by providing a tax credit for services such as home care and adult day care. I am proud to work with Rep. Tom Reed to find a bipartisan solution to help families across this country care for their loved ones.” “We care about those who become caregivers for their aging parents, grandparents or other relatives,” Rep. Tom Reed said. “These families are making enormous sacrifices and oftentimes struggle to make ends meet. The expense of providing personal, at-home care can add up quickly. It’s only fair that we support our caregivers, and I’m proud to work with Rep. Linda Sanchez on legislation that does just that. It’s a win-win. Families will stay together and those in need of assistance have access to better care.” Background on H.R. 4708: the Credit for Caring Act As the Baby Boomer generation ages, a growing number of Americans will require assistance with daily tasks -- such as eating, dressing, bathing, and transportation -- as a result of physical limitations or cognitive impairments. The availability of such paid assistance is limited and often unaffordable. Most Americans rely on family and friends, known as family caregivers, to provide these services, and to assist in arranging and coordinating care. The Credit for Caring provides a credit to working family members equal to 30% of a caregiver’s expenses greater than $2,000. The credit rewards working taxpayers and is intended to encourage continued participation in the workforce while providing care to a loved one. The credit Caregivers must earn at least $7,500 of earned income (approximately half time at minimum wage) to be eligible for the credit. The amount of the credit is capped at $3,000 and phases out for married taxpayers with incomes over $150,000 ($75,000 for single or taxpayers filing separately). Eligible Care Recipient A family member who the taxpayer’s spouse, parent, grandparent, sibling, child, niece or nephew, brother or sister-in-law, or father or mother-in-law Certified by a health care professional as requiring long-term care needs for at least 6 months and unable to perform at least 2 activities of daily living (dressing, eating, bathing, walking, going to the bathroom, and grooming/personal hygiene) Qualified Expenses Includes goods, services and support purchased by the caregiver to assist with activities of daily living. For example, these expenses include purchases made on behalf of the care recipient for: groceries, incontinence supplies, a remote health monitoring device, modifications to a home, transportation to a doctor’s office, or hiring someone to look after an elderly parent. ###
02.11.2016	Washington, DC- Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (H.R. 644) which is headed to President Obama’s desk: “I am pleased to see the bulk of a bill I have championed for many years, the ENFORCE Act, finally make it to the President’s desk. For far too long, U.S. manufacturers have been hurt by foreign competitors and their fraudulent schemes to avoid paying the duties they owe. This legislation finally gives some real teeth to our enforcement procedures and sends the right message to domestic manufacturers, employers, and workers that this Congress cares about customs enforcement. “While this bill is a significant step in the right direction, there is still more work that needs to be done. I look forward to working with my colleagues to meaningfully address currency manipulation, climate change, and human trafficking. I am disappointed these provisions were not included in the final agreement. To me, these are no brainers.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez co-authored the ENFORCE Act in the 111th, 112th, and 113th Congresses. Under the ENFORCE Act, domestic producers will be able to petition U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to investigate possible anti-dumping and countervailing duty evasions. The ENFORCE Act puts in place timelines for CBP to make preliminary and final determinations about whether an importer is engaged in duty evasion. Antidumping duties are imposed when it is established that foreign goods are being sold (or “dumped”) in the U.S. at prices below the prices in the home market. Countervailing duties are imposed when foreign goods receive illegal subsidies that artificially hold down their prices. The duties are meant to even out these illegal practices so that American and foreign goods are competing on a more level playing field when it comes to prices. Those who work to evade these duties are not only breaking the law, they are hurting U.S. businesses and hardworking Americans. ###
02.02.2016	Washington, DC- Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today introduced a resolution to honor the hard work of school counselors across the country by making February 1-5, 2016 "National School Counselors Week." “I am proud to recognize the important role school counselors play in the everyday lives of young students,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “School counselors help shape the futures of millions of high school students across the country. For many students, especially children of immigrant parents, school counselors provide support and guidance, and help set them on the path toward success. This resolution is a small token of our national appreciation for the hard work school counselors do to help make our future bright.” Background: Congresswoman Sánchez is a leading advocate for the importance of school counselors in America’s high schools. She is the author of the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” which provides funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. The current counselor-to-student ratio in America's schools is 482 to one, which is double the 250 to one ratio recommended by the American School Counselors Association and the National Association for College Admissions. In California, the need is even greater. In California the counselor-to-student ratio is one for every 826 students.
01.12.2016	Washington, DC- Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, this evening issued the following statement on President Obama’s final State of the Union address to Congress: “Tonight, the President reminded all of us that we each have a stake -- and a say -- in our country's future. “As I listened and reflected on the past seven years, I remembered that achievement takes hard work and commitment. “With 70 straight months of job creation, President Obama and Congressional Democrats can proudly say that we have helped to lead our nation’s economy back from the depths of the Great Recession. “We can say that because of the Affordable Care Act more Americans have health coverage than ever before. “And because we stood shoulder to shoulder against hate and intolerance, a same sex couple in California can legally get married. “Of course there are areas which I would have liked to see more done, especially when it comes to immigration. However, what’s clear after tonight is that the American people are looking to us to put partisan politics aside and get to work on helping working families thrive. I am hopeful – even in this election season – we can do the work our constituents sent us here to get done. “I am hopeful that we can get back to debating big ideas and strive to meet the challenges the President laid out in his final State of the Union address.” ### Sánchez Contact: Alex Nguyen, 202-225-6676
01.06.2016	Washington, DC- Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, this morning issued the following statement on President Obama’s executive actions to reduce gun violence: “President Obama today took necessary executive actions to address the problem of gun violence in our country,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “However, his executive order can only go so far to making our country safer. Gun violence is an epidemic in the US with an average of more than 30 people killed every day by someone using a gun. Congress needs to do its part and pass common sense gun control legislation. Too many people are victims of gun violence every day in our country; and too many guns are ending up in the wrong hands. It is time to get past the overheated political rhetoric and allow common sense to prevail.” BACKGROUND The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: Toughening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. ###
12.04.2015	Washington, DC- U.S. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and U.S. Congressman Robert Dold (IL-10) today introduced a bipartisan bill to create jobs and promote energy efficiency. The Mechanical Insulation Installation Incentive Act of 2015 would significantly reduce U.S. energy consumption by improving energy efficiency. Estimates show that this legislation would create 25,000 jobs annually, save $35 billion in energy costs and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 170 million metric tons. “Increasing mechanical insulation at manufacturing and other facilities can generate billions in energy savings, reduce millions of metric tons of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, and create thousands of jobs annually,” Rep. Dold said. “This bill is a bipartisan win-win. Increased use and maintenance of mechanical insulation can pay for itself in a short time, help grow the economy and better preserve our environment.” “Energy efficiency in homes has been a leading issue for consumers for many years, but unfortunately mechanical insulation has been largely overlooked,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It is a vital component in constructing and maintaining high-performance, energy-efficient buildings and protect our environment. This bill would encourage more manufacturing facilities, office buildings, schools, hospitals, power plants, hotels, and universities to invest in improving the energy efficiency of their buildings and machinery. I’m proud to join with Rep. Robert Dold to introduce this important bipartisan legislation.” Mechanical insulation is a proven technology that would drastically cut energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in commercial buildings, but it is cost prohibitive for many employers. This bill would give employers a tax incentive for installation costs of mechanical insulation in commercial or industrial buildings. The company would receive a 30 percent tax credit in the fiscal year in which the mechanical insulation was put in service or maintenance completed. The tax credit would be available for five years, giving ample time to implement the necessary installation. Mechanical insulation encompasses all thermal, acoustical and personal safety requirements for mechanical piping and equipment, as well as Heating, Ventilating and Air Condition (HVAC) applications. The system is used across a wide platform of commercial and industrial buildings to decrease heating and cooling costs while increasing efficiency. ###
12.02.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today was named by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to the House-Senate conference committee for the customs and trade enforcement legislation. “I am pleased to have the opportunity to serve on the conference committee for the customs and trade enforcement legislation,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Today, our manufacturers and businesses are unable to compete against foreign competitors due to fraudulent schemes that enable them to avoid paying the duties they owe on products shipped to the United States. In order to keep our industries strong, and protect American jobs, we need to modernize our customs laws to aggressively enforce anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders, and penalize currency manipulation. I look forward to working with my colleagues across the aisle and the Capitol to ensure our nation’s producers are able to compete on a level playing field.” Background Both the House and Senate have passed different versions of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act. Conference committees serve as a way for the House and Senate to reconcile differences in similar legislation. The final agreed upon bill must then be passed again by both the House and Senate. As a Customs and Trade Enforcement conferee, Rep. Sánchez will collaborate with members of the House and Senate to reach a bipartisan and bicameral agreement on our nation’s Customs’ trade functions. ###
11.19.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-Whittier) issued the following statement on the reopening of the Pico Rivera Walmart: “The reopening of the Walmart Supercenter in Pico Rivera is an important development for the city of Pico Rivera and the greater 38th Congressional District. Walmart is a significant contributor to our local economy. “While I can appreciate the many business considerations of reopening the Supercenter, the livelihoods of 530 of my constituents whose lives were upended in April remains my primary concern. “I am disappointed by the lack of action Walmart has taken to accommodate all of its displaced employees. Specifically, I am troubled that the majority of workers who organized and protested have yet to be rehired or transferred to another location. “Fundamentally, workers should be free to speak out and negotiate for better working conditions without fear of retaliation. It is incumbent on Walmart to come to an agreement with these workers and the relevant groups. “As we approach the holiday season, I am confident that there exists a consensus that will help make our community whole again. “I am closely monitoring the situation and stand ready to fight to ensure my constituents are protected.” ###
11.14.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-Whittier) tonight issued the following statement on the death of Nohemi Gonzalez, an alumni of Whittier High School, in the terror attacks in Paris, France: “I am deeply saddened to hear that Nohemi Gonzalez was a victim in last evening’s terrorist attacks in Paris. From the bottom of my heart: I extend my condolences to her family and friends. May the outpouring of love from our community help strengthen and comfort the Gonzalez family during this heartbreaking time. “Like so many others, I am horrified, confused and angered by these barbaric actions. This was not just an attack against France - it was an attack against the freedoms and universal values we hold dearly. We will always stand shoulder to shoulder with the French people against the forces of evil and hate.”
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. — On Tuesday, Representatives Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Todd Young (R-IN) introduced legislation to address a steep decline in charitable vehicle donations that is negatively impacting non-profits across the country. "Today, charities and organizations are struggling to meet the needs of our communities with fewer resources and staff to carry out their missions,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “By making this simple change to the charitable automobile donation process, the CARS Act will make it easier for people to donate their cars to charities that provide these critical services. I am proud to work alongside Congressman Young to help bring this legislation to fruition and stand committed to ensuring it is enacted." Up until 2005, it was easy for individuals to donate a vehicle and deduct the entire fair market value of the car from their taxable income if the amount was under $5,000. However, a change to the tax law in 2005 created a delay between the time of donation and a donor’s ability to claim the deduction for the contribution. This lag has resulted in an 83.1% decline in the volume of car donations nationally since 2004, according to the latest IRS data. “Thousands of charities rely on the donation of cars as a key fundraising tool,” said Rep. Todd Young. “This is especially true for smaller organizations like churches or local food banks. Our bill makes a simple change to spur these donations after years of decline, in the hope we can restore a critical resource charities use to make a difference in their communities. I’m grateful to Congresswoman Sánchez for helping me introduce the CARS Act and am pleased it has garnered bipartisan support amongst our colleagues.” The CARS Act would allow donors who wish to claim a deduction amount between $500 and $2,500, the opportunity to do so provided 1) they obtain a valuation from an authorized online valuation service (such as Kelley Blue Book), and 2) the receiving charity verifies the physical condition of the vehicle. To view the full text of the legislation, click here. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, today issued the following statement after the hearing with Secretary Clinton: “It is unfortunate that after 10 hours of clear and definitive testimony from former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, this committee has not uncovered anything that has changed the essential facts that we already know. The families of Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods deserved better. The American people deserved better. “Instead of a serious discussion about the events surrounding the tragedy in Benghazi, Republicans on the committee attempted to weave a narrative to fit their own political motivation. Over and over, they asked the same questions that have already been answered in nine previous reports. “After today’s hearing, it should be abundantly clear to every American that this committee is obsessed with chasing unfounded conspiracy theories and not interested in the truth. It’s time for Congress to put an end to this sham politically motived investigation.” ###
09.30.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Select Committee on Benghazi, today issued a response to House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s stunning admission on Fox News about the Benghazi Committee’s true political purpose: “Republican Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy pulled the curtain back on the true purpose of the Select Committee on Benghazi – not to get the facts – but instead as a political ploy against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. This stunning admission shows a gross misuse of millions in tax payer dollars for a purely political purpose. I believe it is time to end this investigation and for Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader McCarthy, and Chairman Trey Gowdy to apologize to the families of the four Americans who died during the attack and the American people for abusing the memories of Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods.” Last night in an interview on FOX, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy admitted: “Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi special committee. A select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping. Why? Because she’s untrustable. But no one would have known that any of that had happened had we not fought to make that happen.” ###
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today called on Speaker John Boehner to act on comprehensive immigration reform before he retires: “I commend Speaker Boehner for leading this institution with dignity and I thank him for his service to our country. I am sure this was a difficult decision and I wish him well as he begins the next chapter in his life. “Yesterday we heard from Pope Francis a message of compassion and a call for a renewal of cooperation. My hope is that in the final month of Speaker Boehner’s term in Congress we can work together to pass comprehensive immigration reform. “As chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I stand ready to work with Speaker Boehner in this spirit of cooperation. The American people are looking to us to get to work.” ###
09.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, today released the following statement on Pope Francis’ address to Congress: “Few words can describe the feeling of being in the House chamber this morning. As the daughter of immigrant parents, as a Catholic, as a Latina, I am overjoyed. “Today, Pope Francis spoke to all faiths and parties. He shared with us a message that is critically needed in Congress and our nation. “He called on us to help—and to give hope—to those trapped in a cycle of poverty. He challenged us to have the courage and resolve necessary to combat climate change. And most of all, he spoke of compassion and of the Golden Rule, as our moral compass to address immigration reform. “Our nation faces difficult challenges in the days, months, and years ahead. But if we heed Pope Francis’ message and ‘call for a renewal of cooperation,’ I know we can meet them. “We have an opportunity to be a better America. A chance to live up to our creed as “the land of the free and the home of the brave.” “Let’s get to work.” ###
09.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today issued the following statement on ending the carried interest tax provision: “It’s encouraging to see efforts to tackle to our increasingly complicated and unfair tax code gain national attention. Our nation is facing staggering income inequality, in large part due to a tax code tilted in favor of the already wealthy. Revenue generated by eliminating the unfair carried interest tax provision should be used to help working families by investing more in to education, infrastructure, and middle-class growth – not to lower rates for Wall Street millionaires. “As we debate tax reform, our priority needs to be creating a fairer tax code for hard working Americans. Ending the carried interest tax provision is one of the few basic, straightforward ideas proposed by both parties. We must work together to build off of this common ground.” Background on the Carried Interest Tax Provision The carried interest provision allows certain investment fund managers – including private equity fund managers – to take advantage of the preferential 20-percent tax long-term capital gains rate on income received as compensation, rather than the ordinary income tax rates of up to 39.6-percent that all other Americans pay. Eliminating the carried interest provision would ensure this income is subject to ordinary income tax rates rather than the much lower long-term capital gains rate. ###
09.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, today issued the following statement on President Obama's executive order requiring federal contractors to offer their employees up to seven days of paid sick leave per year – benefiting more than 300,000 federal contractors: “President Obama’s executive order is a huge step forward for workers' rights in America,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Working men and women should not have to choose between their job and the ability to take care of themselves and their families. For many working Americans – especially hourly workers and part timers working multiple jobs – paid sick leave is critically important because a cold or the flu could put their financial wellbeing at risk. While this executive order is welcome news, we must continue to push private employers to extend paid sick leave benefits to the more than 43 million men and women working without this protection.” Background on the Labor and Working Families Caucus The Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus is committed to protecting workers and their families by developing and implementing a pro-labor agenda in the U.S. Congress. The Caucus works to educate Members on issues and policy proposals that impact the American labor force and working families. ###
08.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released a statement regarding the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) reached between the P5+1 nations and Iran: “Since it was announced, I have taken the time to carefully review the Iran nuclear agreement and used the August recess period to discuss both sides of this important issue with experts and hear from my constituents. After thoroughly reviewing and considering the arguments, I have decided to support the Iran nuclear agreement and oppose a resolution of disapproval. Stopping Iran from a nuclear bomb is the principal goal and I believe this agreement is the best option to achieve that goal. “Without a doubt the crippling economic sanctions Congress passed, with the support of the international community, succeeded in driving the Iranian regime to the negotiating table. But sanctions alone have not forced Iran to give up its nuclear program – instead Iran has built more centrifuges. This agreement effectively halts Iran’s nuclear program by placing strict restrictions on research, development and testing, and removes 98 percent of Iran’s enriched uranium stockpile and makes weapons-grade plutonium production impossible. “While this is not a perfect deal, I believe that the United States, Israel, and the world are in a stronger position with this deal than without it. This agreement is our best option to deny Iran a pathway to a nuclear weapon. “Let me be clear – I do not trust Iran. However, the agreement negotiated by the P5+1 countries contains the strongest inspection and verification regime ever. IAEA inspectors will have access to Iran's nuclear infrastructure sites to verify compliance with the agreement. I am confident that the international community will be able to catch and punish Iran if they try to cheat. “I firmly believe Israel’s security is a profound moral imperative for the United States and America’s support for Israel is unbreakable. A nuclear-armed Iran poses the gravest threat to Israel’s existence and I will do everything I can to ensure Israel’s safety. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure the United States maintains our commitment to Israel with every available resource to counter future Iranian aggression in the Middle East, and strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship. “After years of difficult diplomatic negotiations, I believe we must give this broad international agreement a chance to work. I am confident in America’s resolve to ensure the security of Israel and prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.” ###
08.03.2015	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on President Obama’s Clean Power Plan to fight global climate change: “I applaud President Obama and the Environmental Protection Agency for establishing the first-ever national standards to limit carbon pollution from power plants. Power plants are the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions and they produce over one-third of all domestic greenhouse emissions. If fully enacted, the Clean Power Plan will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 32 percent – bringing carbon emissions below 2005 levels by the year 2030. “I understand the urgency associated with combating these sources of pollution. As the representative of a district with a large Latino community, my constituents stand to lose the most if we fail to implement these guidelines. Nationwide, 31% of Latinos live within 30 miles of a power plant and are 165% more likely to live in counties with unhealthy levels of pollution. The consequences of these environmental conditions are evident in the high rates of asthma among the Latino community. Today, over 3.6 million Latinos suffer from asthma, including one in ten Latino children. These numbers are unacceptable. “The Clean Power Plan may very well serve as a turning point for the United States—and the world—in our efforts to protect public health and preserve our environment. On behalf of my constituents, and the 28 million Latinos living in areas with unhealthy levels of pollution, I am proud to stand with President Obama and I urge full implementation of the Clean Power Plan.” ###
07.22.2015	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the Select Committee on Benghazi, today issued the following response to Chairman Trey Gowdy’s demand that the State Department’s Chief of Staff testify before the Select Committee on the same day, at the same time, Secretary of State John Kerry is scheduled to testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee on the Iran nuclear agreement: “Chairman Gowdy and the Republicans have turned the Select Committee into a partisan sideshow beyond what anyone thought was even possible. It is shameful how this committee has failed in our responsibility to the American people to carefully analyze the facts behind the Benghazi attacks. Instead, Chairman Gowdy has shown this committee for what it truly is: a taxpayer-funded political attack machine with subpoena power. “Now, Chairman Gowdy is trying to use the Select Committee to interfere with Secretary Kerry’s testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee as the Congress takes up the debate over the Iran nuclear agreement. Members deserve the opportunity to learn more about the specifics of the Iran agreement in order to determine its merits on the facts. Unfortunately, Chairman Gowdy’s planned three-ring circus would only serve as a distraction from Secretary Kerry’s important testimony and does not contribute to a productive debate on the Iran nuclear agreement.” ###
07.15.2015	Washington, DC- Reps. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) and Jackie Speier (CA- 14), along with 33 original co-sponsors, today introduced a resolution calling on the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) to immediately end gender discrimination between male and female athletes. The dominant performance by the U.S. Women’s National Soccer team drew international attention and record-breaking audiences to the 2015 Women’s World Cup. However, the female athletes participating in this year’s World Cup were compensated far less than their male counterparts. The total payout for the 2015 Women’s World Cup is $15 million, the total for the 2014 men’s World Cup was $576 million, nearly 40 times as much. “It baffles me to think the United States women’s soccer team or any women’s World Cup champion would be compensated significantly less than their male counterparts. Players should be rewarded for their performance rather than their gender,” Rep. Linda Sánchez said. “It’s time for FIFA to correct this disparity between male and female athletes. We should send the message to girls and young women around the world that we value their hard work the same as men.” “Whether you’re a soccer mom or a starter on the US Women’s Soccer Team, women in our country deserve equal pay,” said Rep. Jackie Speier. “I’m proud to introduce this resolution demanding that FIFA ensure our championship women’s team is treated with the dignity and respect they deserve.” The same resolution was introduced in the U.S. Senate this week by Vermont Senator Patrick Leahy. The need to correct this unfair disparity is underscored by the fact that the Women’s World Cup winner – the United States – was awarded $2 million after defeating Japan in the final match which drew 25 million viewers in the U.S. alone. By comparison, Germany – the 2014 Men’s World Cup winner – was awarded $35 million. This pay inequity sends a terrible message to women and girls around the world about their value and contribution to sports. It’s time female athletes were compensated equally. List of Original Co-Sponsors: Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), André Carson (D-IN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Judy Chu (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), John Conyers (D-MI), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Sam Farr (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Michael Honda (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Dan Kildee (D-MN), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Grace Meng (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), John Yarmuth (D-KY). ###
06.26.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges: “Love wins!” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and Rep. Chris Gibson (NY-19) joined the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network (GLSEN) and 19 Members of Congress to introduce the Safe Schools Improvement Act. The legislation would require school districts to adopt codes of conduct specifically prohibiting bullying and harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and religion. “As a mother, my heart breaks every time I see a news report of another child taking their life after being bullied at school. Schools must be a safe place for our children to learn and grow and be protected from bullying,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The Safe Schools Improvement Act will give parents like me some peace of mind to know all our children have an educational environment where they can learn without the threat of harassment. I thank Rep. Chris Gibson, GLSEN, and my colleagues for joining me in standing up for safer schools.” “Healthy communities require safe learning environments for our young people,” said Congressman Gibson. “I’m proud that New York State has been a leader in anti-bullying education and I’m hopeful that the good work in my home state can be a model for the rest of the country. I want to thank Congresswoman Sanchez for her leadership on this important issue.” “This legislation is crucial for the thousands of students, a disproportionate number of whom are lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT), who face bullying and harassment each year in America’s schools and is a resounding statement of support for LGBT youth across the country,” said Dr. Eliza Byard, GLSEN’s Executive Director. “We thank Reps. Sánchez and Gibson for their ongoing leadership in working to ensure protections against bullying and harassment for LGBT students are added to our broad education landscape. LGBT-inclusive anti-bullying and harassment policies work. Students who attend schools with LGBT-inclusive anti-bullying policies experience lower levels of victimization, have lower rates of absenteeism and higher grade point averages, and report that teachers intervene in bullying incidents more than twice as often.” Background The Safe Schools Improvement Act has garnered support from nearly 150 organizations, including the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the Human Rights Campaign; the National Council of La Raza; and the Anti-Defamation League. The Safe Schools Improvement Act was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA). Full List of Original Co-Sponsors: Reps. Alma Adams (D-NC), Judy Chu (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Mike Honda (D-CA), Pete King (R-NY), Tom McArthur (R-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Don Young (R-AK) Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has been recognized as a leader in working to make schools safe for all students. The Safe Schools Improvement Act was first introduced in the 110th Congress. ###
06.25.2015	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, today released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision in King v. Burwell: “The Supreme Court’s decision today reaffirms the core belief of the Affordable Care Act - that access to healthcare is a universal right, not merely a privilege for the few. This ruling is further proof that there is no legal basis for Republicans to misconstrue the law and deny access to care for more than 6 million Americans. I’m glad the Court ruled against this politically-motivated lawsuit that would strip millions of Americans of their health coverage and destroy all the progress made to improving our healthcare system. “This landmark decision cements the ACA as the law of the land and it is my sincere hope that we can end the political brinksmanship to come together to further improve our healthcare system. I proudly voted for the ACA and pleased to see the law is working despite the dire predictions from my Republican colleagues. The ACA has significantly reduced the number of uninsured people in the United States, lowered healthcare costs, improved health outcomes, and increased access to care.” ###
06.24.2015	Two years since the Supreme Court gutted core protections in the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder, states and localities throughout the country have passed sweeping laws that disproportionately suppress the voting rights of minorities. These laws have left voters without the protections they need to exercise their constitutional right to vote. To restore and advance the voting protections for all Americans, a group of Senate and House Democratic lawmakers joined together Wednesday to introduce the Voting Rights Advancement Act (VRAA) of 2015. Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.) introduced the measure in the Senate. Congressman John Lewis (D-Ga.) and Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-Ala.) of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.), chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-Calif.), chairwoman of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, introduced an identical measure in the House. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.): “The Court’s decision in Shelby County two years ago, left Latino voters especially vulnerable. Seven million eligible Latino voters are now without the voting protections they deserve. Voting is one of the most fundamental rights we have and a threat to our voting rights is truly a threat to our democracy. The Voting Rights Advancement Act strengthens voter protections for targeted communities and is being introduced at a most critical time in our country.” Protections under the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 will extend to all voters nationwide. The legislation targets certain voting practices known to suppress the voting rights of minorities. The bill is the result of collaboration with those at the grassroots who have witnessed the harmful effects that discriminatory voting laws have had in their communities. Key provisions of the bill include: A new geographic coverage formula that is based on current conditions. The bill establishes a “rolling” nationwide trigger that continuously moves so that only states that have a recent record of racial discrimination in voting would be covered. Allows federal courts to bail in states for preclearance. Current law permits states or jurisdictions to be bailed in if an intentional violation can be shown. The new legislation offers more protection by allowing a court to bail in states or jurisdictions whose voting practices have discriminatory results. Greater transparency in federal elections to ensure that voters are made aware of late-breaking changes in voting procedures. The additional sunlight will deter discrimination from occurring and protect voters from discrimination. Revises the standard for preliminary injunctions for voting rights cases, allowing a court at the start of litigation to immediately halt a challenged voting practice until a final ruling. This provision recognizes that when voting rights are at stake, stopping a discriminatory practice after the election has already concluded is too late to vindicate voters’ rights. An outline of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 can be found here, and a sectional analysis can be found here. Text of legislation can also be found online. Democratic Senators Dick Durbin (Ill.) and Chris Coons (Del.) are original coauthors of the bill. Cosponsors of the legislation include Democratic Harry Reid (Nev.), Chuck Schumer (N.Y.), Patty Murray (Wash.), Debbie Stabenow (Mich.), Amy Klobuchar (Minn.), Elizabeth Warren (Mass.), Mark Warner (Va.), Dianne Feinstein (Calif.), Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.), Al Franken (Minn.), Richard Blumenthal (Conn.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), Bob Casey (Penn.), Jeanne Shaheen (N.H.), Jeff Merkley (Ore.), Tammy Baldwin (Wis.), Tim Kaine (Va.), and Cory Booker (N.J.). ##### The Voting Rights Advancement Act: Protecting All Voters Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.): “The Voting Rights Advancement Act is a voting rights bill for all Americans. It is a bill for the next generation, and helps protect the legacy of the previous generation who fought so hard five decades ago for these voting rights protections.” Congressman John Lewis (D-Ga.): “If it was not clear in 2014, I think it is clear today that we have come a great distance in this country toward healing the divisions and problems among us, but we are not there yet. This legislation acknowledges that we still have much more work to do, but we have come too far, and we have made too much progress to stop now. I support this legislation and hope that this Congress will do what is right by the people of this nation and pass the voting right legislation that restores justice, dignity, and equal access to the ballot box in America.” Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.): “In the two years since the Shelby County decision, several state legislatures have pushed through discriminatory and onerous restrictions on voting that previously would have required Justice Department clearance. I wish that fifty years after we enacted the Voting Rights Act, our society had reached a point where its protections were no longer necessary. But we have not, and the Voting Rights Act is still very much needed today.” Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-Ala.): “There is an urgent need to protect the progress we have made since the courageous Foot Soldiers of the Voting Rights Movement dared to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge 50 years ago. We have inherited their legacy, and the fight to ensure that all Americans can participate in our political process continues today. The Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 takes an expansive view of the need to protect access to the voting booth, and will offer more protection to more people in more states.” Senator Chris Coons (D-Del.): “Fifty years after Selma, the civil rights movement has not yet finished, and in states across Americas, voting rights that were once protected by federal statute are now again at risk from modern day Jim Crow laws. This legislation recognizes the challenges we’ve overcome, but more importantly, it recognizes the challenges we still face today.” Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-Calif.): “For over 40 years, the Voting Rights Act was one of our best tools for combating disenfranchisement – particularly in places with a history of discrimination. But that all changed with the Supreme Court’s Shelby decision two years ago this week. Since then, the ensuing back-and-forth between states and courts over what is a legitimate restriction on access to the polls has made it as clear as ever that we need a national standard. This is particularly important to ensure that people of color, including Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, have the ability to fully participate in our democracy. That is why I am proud to be one of the lead sponsors of the Voting Rights Advancement Act to make sure that no state can systematically chip away at any group’s right to vote.” ###
06.18.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, introduced legislation to recognize June as Immigrant Heritage Month along with 59 original cosponsors. The resolution acknowledges the United States’ rich migrant history and the impact immigrants have had in making the United States a stronger, more resilient country. Full text of H.Res.325 is available here. “For more than 200 years, our rich diversity has been a tremendous advantage for our country,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Immigrants helped establish this great nation and they continue to help it grow and prosper. Recognizing June as Immigrant Heritage Month honors their influence and the role they continue to play in shaping our history and culture.” “I thank all my colleagues for joining me to introduce this resolution which celebrates the contributions of past, present and future immigrants,” continued Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This year in particular we’ve seen rhetoric which disparages our country’s immigrants. As we recognize our immigrant heritage, we must rededicate ourselves to fixing our broken immigration system to ensure we keep the promise of America as the land of opportunity for all.” Full list of original cosponsors: Reps. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Judy Chu (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Yvette Clark (D-NY), Mike Coffman (R-CO), John Conyers (D-MI), Jim Costa (D-CA), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Susan Davis (D-CA), John Delaney (D-MD), Jeff Denham (R-CA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Mike Honda (D-CA), Henry "Hank" Johnson (D-GA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), James McGovern (D-MA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Janice Schakowsky (D-IL), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), David Valadao (R-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), John Yarmuth (D-KY) ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, DC—Congresswomen Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) today introduced the Wise Investment in our Children (WIC) Act. The bill would increase the age limit for children participating in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) for one additional year, from five to six. “By extending the age limit of children participating in WIC by one year, we ensure they receive the nutritional services needed until they’re actually eligible for school meals,” said Sánchez. “This is common sense legislation, and further improves an already effective program. In my state of California alone, 84 WIC agencies provide services to over 1.45 million participants each month at over 650 sites. I know this success is shared across the country. By passing this bill, we close a critical gap in support, and make certain that our families can continue to rely on the services they need.” “WIC currently provides nutrition services for children only up to a child’s fifth birthday, when it is assumed that they will enroll in kindergarten and be eligible for school meals,” DeLauro said. “However many children do not enter school until well after their fifth birthday. By expanding WIC to age six we close that gap and ensure children have a strong health and nutrition foundation. No child should be placed at a nutritional disadvantage simply because of when their birthdate falls.” The legislation is supported by Witnesses to Hunger, Children’s HealthWatch and the National WIC Association. “The nutrition gap between WIC and school shouldn’t put America’s children at nutrition, health, or learning risks because of their birth dates and local rules. Continuing WIC nutrition services for children up to age six assures that all children are protected by WIC’s essential nutrition safety net until they enter school. The Wise Investment in our Children Act does just that,” said Rev. Douglas A. Greenaway, President & CEO of the National WIC Association. Dr. Evelyn F. Crayton, RDN, LDN, FAND, a registered dietitian nutritionist and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics’ 2015-2016 President said: “The WIC program recently celebrated 40 years of success in providing healthy beginnings to millions of children and families. Investing in mother and their children’s health and nutrition is critical to a strong future for our country. Allowing children to stay with the WIC program up to the age of six will ensure they are ready to learn when they enroll in kindergarten.” Dr. Diana Becker Cutts, MD, pediatrician at Hennepin County Medical Center and Principal Investigator with Children’s HealthWatch, said: “WIC hits a research-based, cost-effective, proven homerun for my youngest patients. At first base, it begins with enhancing prenatal nutrition before birth, at second base it increases access to healthy nutrition for infants and kids, at third base is WIC's on-going nutrition education and guidance for parents. Ensuring that young children receive these essential supports until age 6 without a gap, as the Wise Investment in our Children Act would do, would help bring kids into home base with the healthy start in life they need and deserve.”
04.23.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today introduced an amendment to H.R. 1890, the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015, that would prohibit the U.S. from entering into trade deals with countries whose laws call for the imprisonment, torture, or even death penalty for the supposed "crime" of sexual orientation. Speaking before a Ways & Means Committee mark-up, Sánchez gave the following statement: "I wish the TPA bill before us today gave Congress a truly meaningful say in the trade negotiation process before negotiations were nearly finished," said Rep. Sánchez. "But as we sit here at the 11th hour discussing negotiating objectives, I hope we can at least agree that one bright line rule should be the most basic of fundamental human rights to not be put to death based upon sexual orientation." Earlier this year, 119 Democratic and Republican Members of Congress wrote to Ambassador Froman, calling for the suspension of Brunei from TPP negotiations until they revoke a new criminal code that violates these human rights. "This simple amendment lets our trading partners know that US market access isn’t just a free pass. If you want to do business with the United States, we will not tolerate this type of barbaric behavior. As Congress is contemplating this bill to delegate negotiating authority to the Administration, it is our duty to send clear marching orders when it comes to the rights of the LGBT community." ###
04.22.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) introduced the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act,” legislation that would provide funding for additional counselors in high schools with high dropout rates. “School counselors are often the bridge that help keep at-risk students in school,” said Rep. Sánchez. “We must place more counselors in schools that have high numbers of at-risk students. No child should be left behind because his or her school does not have the funding necessary to afford enough school counselors.” The American School Counselor Association and the American Counseling Association recommend a ratio of one school counselor to 250 students and an even lower ratio for counselors working primarily with students at risk. But the average student-to-counselor ratio in California’s public schools is more than 1,016 to one, a ratio that hardly allows for individual attention and intensive support. With student populations between two and four thousand at many large Los Angeles-area high schools, additional personal attention and follow-up from professional counselors will help ensure our children don’t miss out on a quality education. The “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” would address this problem by providing funding for additional counselors in high schools with high dropout rates. These additional counselors would work with students at risk and would collaborate with parents, teachers, tutors, employers, and others to create a comprehensive plan to get these students back on the right track. “Seven thousand students drop out of high school every day,” continued Sánchez. “Professional school counselors can spot early on potential problems in a student’s academic career and address them before that student drops out of school because his or her problems are too overwhelming.” This legislation is supported by the American School Counselor Association, National Association for College Admission Counseling, and the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network. XXX
04.20.2015	Cerritos, CA- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) is calling on Walmart to do everything it can to accommodate the workers who were displaced following last week’s decision to close its Pico Rivera store: “I am concerned by the circumstances surrounding the abrupt closing of the Pico Rivera Walmart,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The store employs hundreds of workers in our community and generates important revenue for the city. Walmart’s decision to close this location will leave hundreds of families without income for months to come. I am particularly concerned that Walmart did not work with the city to address the structural issues they cite as reason for closing this location. I am further alarmed about the mere hours of notice they provided workers and the minimal actions Walmart says they will take to accommodate displaced employees. I don’t want to speculate that Walmart is closing this location in retaliation for the protests that have taken place here in the past, but it is very hard to give them the benefit of the doubt. When a $16 billion company suddenly decides to put 530 families out of work and leave them without any guarantees of finding new employment at one of their other locations, it is imperative that we get all the facts. I am actively looking into the issue and will fight to ensure worker’s rights are protected. These families are not only my constituents, but my neighbors, and I will demand answers from Walmart until our community is whole again.” ###
03.26.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sanchez issued the following statement after the House passed bipartisan legislation to reform the Medicare payment system: “Today’s vote is proof that leaders on both sides of the aisle can come together to make tough decisions and pass meaningful legislation that helps our most vulnerable children, families, and seniors. Our country’s community clinics, which provide affordable care to 7 million Americans, will receive $7.2 billion in funding under this agreement. Also included in today’s bill are provisions to fight fraud and abuse and a permanent extension of the program that pays Medicare premiums for low-income seniors In the spirit of compromise, some difficult concessions had to be made in order to reach this agreement. I am concerned with restrictions that deny the use of federal funds to pay for family planning services at community centers. Ensuring women have the right to make decisions about their health is a priority for me and I am committed to fighting restrictions that curb those rights. Despite my concerns, I know the reforms included in today’s legislation will prolong the life of Medicare, improve care, and ensure doctors get rewarded for quality, not quantity. It is a win for seniors, children and doctors who provide critical care to millions of Americans.” ###
03.19.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the Credit Reporting Act for Military Families (CRAM). The bipartisan legislation would require credit reporting agencies to notify deployed military service members when a “negative information alert” is posted on their credit report. “Our service members make tremendous sacrifices for our country, their credit score should not be one of them,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “However, too many of them face challenges when they return home because of missed payments incurred while they were deployed” The Credit Reporting Act for Military Families allows deployed service personnel to notify credit reporting agencies of a military deployment. Secondly, it authorizes reporting agencies to contact deployed service members when an adverse action is posted on their credit report. Both actions would give creditors more context about the circumstances under which service members accrue missed payments. “With a new wave of young service members transitioning into civilian life, the Credit Reporting Act for Military Families will give service members more control over their finances and the peace of mind that they will not encounter unforeseen problems when they are ready to purchase a car or a home.” Rep. Sánchez introduced the legislation after hearing from veterans and service members in the district who encountered challenges in obtaining business and home loans because of missed payments while they were deployed. In addition to affecting personal finances, poor credit can also negatively impact security clearance for military personnel. According to VeteransPlus, a non-profit that promotes financial literacy among military families, delinquent indebtedness is the number one reason the Department of Defense denies or revokes security clearances for service members. The bill has been endorsed by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) and the National Consumer Law Center. ###
03.17.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today after House Republicans unveiled their proposed budget: “Republicans have once again demonstrated that they are not serious about helping hard working Americans. Their budget proposal guts key economic programs all while rewarding companies that evade tax responsibilities and rolling back regulations meant to prevent another economic downturn like the one we experienced in 2008. Ending Medicare as we know it and making cuts to anti-poverty programs like SNAP will affect some of the most vulnerable in our society—seniors, children, and people with disabilities. The proposal would also repeal the Affordable Care Act which has helped more than 16.4 million previously uninsured Americans gain affordable health care. This is real progress that we cannot afford to overturn. Finally, the proposed budget increases defense spending by billions, but offers no similar increases to non-defense related programs. These cuts are being made on the backs of students, our environment, and middle class families. This is a disproportionate approach that will translate into fewer investments in our schools, infrastructure, and economic recovery. Putting our country on sound financial footing should be a priority for Congress, but we cannot do that at the expense of Americans who are trying their hardest to make ends meet.” ###
03.02.2015	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement after House Republicans passed a one week extension to fund the Department of Homeland Security: “Republicans are playing a bad game of chicken with our national security,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Their one week funding extension for the Department of Homeland Security is indicative of the internal strife that interfering with their ability to legislate. Kicking the can down the road does nothing to resolve our differences on immigration. It only promotes the partisanship that is keeping us from addressing other pressing national issues. This is no way to run the country or conduct the nation’s business. Until Republicans decide to govern for the American people and not just a vocal minority in their caucus, I know we will continue to see this type of self-inflicted brinksmanship.”
02.12.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement today after President Obama asked Congress for a three year reauthorization to continue a targeted military campaign against the terrorist group ISIL: “ISIL’s recent atrocities prove that their depravity knows no bounds. Their attacks against innocent civilians and continued threats against the U.S. pose a significant threat to our national security that cannot go unchecked,” said Rep. Sánchez. “American power works best when we are united together in opposition to evil and this is why I commend President Obama for asking Congress to pass a bipartisan authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) that is narrowly tailored to the circumstances of this conflict. I am further encouraged by the President’s desire to repeal the 2002 AUMF and include sunset provisions to ensure that Congress is fully consulted before the U.S. enters any conflict that could endanger the lives of our troops. I look forward to debating how we can give our military leaders the flexibility they need to train other troops and defend the assets we have in the region.” ###
02.09.2015	On Monday, Reps. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Todd Young (R-IN) introduced H.R. 811, the IRS Notice for Organizations That Include Charities is Essential (NOTICE) Act. Under current law, tax exempt organizations who fail to file annual returns for three consecutive years face automatic revocation of their tax-exempt status. Because small organizations were not required to file such returns prior to 2008, many organizations aren’t aware of pending revocation until after it has happened, at which point they must reapply for the status. Additionally, the IRS Taxpayer Advocate has found that thousands of organizations have had their status wrongfully revoked, with no course for remediation except to reapply. The IRS NOTICE Act would require the IRS to notify organizations 65 days before their tax-exempt status is automatically revoked, giving them time to file the necessary returns or identify an IRS error before action is taken. It also creates a path to retroactive reinstatement if the necessary notice is not sent and returns are subsequently filed. “Too many good organizations get tripped up by this provision because of simple oversight,” said Young. “They are caught off-guard and not even aware of a problem until their name appears on an IRS list of organizations that lost their tax exempt status. At the very least, the IRS ought to be notifying these groups before such drastic action is taken, and this bill would require that they do so.” “Thousands of non-profits across the country work hard to deliver their services despite small staffs and tight budgets,” said Sánchez. “Unfortunately, these circumstances can put them at a disadvantage when it comes to navigating our complicated tax system. Under the NOTICE Act, charities would be given an opportunity to remedy any outstanding claims with the IRS before being stripped of their tax-exempt status. This simple change to our tax code would allow organizations to continue providing their services to the communities they serve without interruption. I know that in my district, and across the country, there are non-profit organizations that would benefit immensely from this legislation.” A database of the organizations who have lost their tax exempt status due to automatic revocation—including more than 12,000 in Indiana and nearly 68,000 in California—can be found at https://apps.irs.gov/app/eos/revokeSearch.do?dispatchMethod=navigateSearch&pathName=forwardToRevokeSearch&searchChoice=revoked. Companion legislation was also introduced Thursday in the Senate by Sens. Dan Coats (R-IN) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) as S. 400. ###
02.04.2015	Washington, DC- This week, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez introduced a resolution to honor the hard work of school counselors across the country by making February 2-6, 2015 "National School Counselors Week." "School counselors play an important role in the lives of our children, but too often their work goes unnoticed," said Rep. Linda Sánchez. "Every day, they go to work to help motivate, inspire and encourage our children to achieve their fullest potential. 'National School Counselors Week' recognizes their dedication and all the hard work they put into shaping our students' education." This is the eighth time Congresswoman Sánchez introduces legislation to honor school counselors. She has also introduced legislation in the past that would provide funding for additional counselors in high school with high drop-out rates. The current counselor-to-student ratio in America's schools is 471 to one, which is double the 250 to one ration recommended by the American School Counselors Association and the National Association for College Admissions. H. Res 74 currently has 13 co-sponsors. For a copy of the resolution, click here: https://1.usa.gov/16zijnu ###
01.21.2015	Washington, DC- In response to President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, issued the following statement: “Tonight President Obama laid out a vision for the country that builds on the progress we have made under his leadership and refocuses our efforts on helping working families succeed. Despite continued job growth and the lowest unemployment rate in seven years, too many American families are struggling to make ends meet. Stagnant wages, rising childcare costs, and the burden of college loans are making it hard for middle class families to make ends meet. Pursuing policies that prioritize higher education, address our broken immigration system, and reform our tax code field will give Americans the economic security previous generations enjoyed. While I understand Republicans will not agree with everything that President Obama outlined tonight, the time for partisanship is over. Our future as a country depends on Congress’ ability to set aside the bickering and find common ground. We cannot continue to let political games get in the way of progress and doing our jobs as legislators.” ###
01.09.2015	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, released the following statement today after press reports indicated House Republicans will introduce a bill next week that ties funding for the Department of Homeland Security to plans to roll back President Obama’s executive action on immigration and his 2012 protections for young undocumented immigrants: “The GOP’s plan to unravel deferred action for childhood arrivals and executive action on immigration is inhumane. It is nothing more than a ploy to appease extremists in their party and includes no good-faith effort to improve our broken immigration system. Their plan also undermines our national security at a time when we should ensure our agencies have the necessary funding to prevent attacks like the ones that unfolded in France this week. Democrats will continue to push for sensible comprehensive immigration reform and stand ready to defend President Obama’s policies which prioritize criminals for removal and keep families together.” ###
01.07.2015	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was sworn in as the representative for California’s 38th Congressional District in the 114th Congress. The ceremony marks her seventh term representing South East Los Angeles County in the U.S. House of Representatives. “It is an honor to continue representing the people of California’s 38th district. With this privilege comes the enormous responsibility of lending a voice to the families who are working hard to give their children better opportunities. Congress must overcome the bickering and gridlock and get to work on legislation that grows our economy and gives every American an opportunity to prosper.” Sánchez will resume her role as Ranking Member of the House Ethics Committee and continue to serve on the powerful House Ways & Means Committee. She will also continue to serve on the House Select Committee on Benghazi and assume the Chairmanship of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. “As member of the House Ways & Means Committee, I will continue to fight for a tax system that is simpler, fairer, and gives everyone an even playing field. I also look forward to serving as the new Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and to working with our members to advance policies important to all Americans, not just the Latino community, including voting rights protections, comprehensive immigration reform, and legislation that expands economic opportunities. Congresswoman Sánchez was first elected to Congress in 2002. She is a recognized by her peers as a champion of working families and civil rights issues. During her tenure in Congress, she became the first Latina to serve on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Ways & Means Committee. A native of Orange, California, she holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of California, Berkeley and a law degree from the University of California, Los Angeles. ###
12.20.2014	Washington, DC- Today President Obama signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which includes an amendment that facilitates the transfer of a portion of the U.S. Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point, also known as the Norwalk Tank Farm, to the City of Norwalk. The amendment was introduced as a stand-alone bill by Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) earlier this year and then later included as part of the NDAA legislation. Today’s passage is the final step in a long process to have fifteen of the fifty-one acres at the site designated for public use and transferred to the City of Norwalk free of cost. “Today’s news means the people of Norwalk can look forward to enjoying a new recreational space in their community,” said Rep. Sánchez. “For over 20 years, local leaders have tirelessly advocated for an opportunity to transform the blighted space. I am pleased that my staff and I were able to provide the support necessary to have their efforts come to fruition. I look forward to continuing to work with the City of Norwalk as we explore options to transform the 15 acres of land into a space our community can enjoy.” Background: The Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point was used by the U.S. Air Force to store jet fuel supplies from the 1950’s until 2001. For years, the City of Norwalk has advocated to have a portion of the land allocated as open space for the community. Under Rep. Sánchez’ legislation, the City of Norwalk gains ownership of the 15 acres of land and the ability to move forward with plans to designate the site as a public park and recreation area. ###
12.15.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement after the House passed a $1.1 trillion “CRomnibus” spending bill to keep the government funded through September 2015: “I could not in good conscious support a spending bill that used government funding as a guise to ram-through misguided legislation,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The bill is tainted with policies meant to score political points, threaten the retirement prospects of millions of Americans, and increase the influence of wealthy political donors. Funding the Department of Homeland Security for a three-month period is a political stunt made at the expense of our national security. The same is true of the decision to cut funding from the Internal Revenue Service at a time when the agency’s workload is set to rise because of tax provisions included in the Affordable Care Act. Furthermore, I could not vote for a bill that robs millions of Americans of the pensions they rightfully earned. This sets a dangerous precedent and hurts the rights of current and future hard working Americans. I also echo the anger expressed by some of my fellow colleagues over the inclusion of provisions that weaken financial regulations for Wall Street banks and allow wealthy donors to increase the amount they can contribute to political campaigns. Our Democracy is not for sale and Wall Street banks should not be allowed to gamble with our economic security. Tonight, we had an opportunity to stand up against special interests and stop a poison pill that goes against many of our Democratic principles. I am disappointed by its passage, but emboldened to continue working with my colleagues to defend the rights and livelihoods of Americans.” ###
11.21.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement after President Obama announced he will issue executive action to provide relief and accountability for millions of immigrants living in the country: “In lieu of Republican leadership on the issue, the President has rightfully decided to step up and address our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Executive action is a bold step in the right direction. It will allow government agencies to direct their attention to felons, not families. The President’s actions are not unprecedented. Each President since Dwight Eisenhower has utilized executive action to enact changes to immigration policy. Although necessary, his plan is not a permanent solution and it remains incumbent on Congress to pass a comprehensive immigration bill. I hope the President’s actions provide the impetus needed for House Republicans to do their job and legislate on immigration reform. It’s time to show leadership without the threat of shutdown. It’s time for Congress to do its job.” Congresswoman Sánchez addressed the President’s plan for executive action in further detail in an interview with CNN this morning. A full clip of her interview can be found here. ###
11.18.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today after she was elected to serve as the next Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus: “I thank my colleagues for entrusting me with the responsibility to lead the Congressional Hispanic Caucus,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I take great pride in the opportunity to lead a caucus that has significantly grown in numbers and in influence over the last several years. Congresswoman Sánchez congratulated the newly-elected CHC Board: CHC First Vice Chair Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) CHC Second Vice Chair Joaquin Castro (TX-20) CHC Whip Ruben Gallego (AZ-7). “As the Hispanic population continues to grow in our country, I look forward to working with Congressional leaders and our CHC membership to elevate our voice in advocating for issues that are important to our community, including comprehensive immigration reform, voting rights, economic opportunity, and education. “Our new CHC board is energized and ready to tackle the issues ahead in the next Congress.” During the 113th Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez served as CHC Second Vice-Chair and as CHC Civil Rights Task Force Chair. She currently serves as Ranking Member on the House Ethics Committee and as a member of the House Ways & Means Committee. Congresswoman Sánchez was the first Latina to serve on the House Judiciary Committee and on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee. ###
11.13.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) urged House and Senate leaders to include an amendment that would facilitate the transfer of 15 acres of land from the U.S. Air Force to the City of Norwalk in the bicameral version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Earlier this May, the amendment passed by a voice vote to be added to the House version of the NDAA. If approved, the measure would designate an area of the U.S. Air Force Norwalk Defense Fund Supply Point as land intended for public use. A copy of the letter is included below. For an electronic copy, please click here. November 13, 2014 The Honorable Chairman Levin Chairman U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee The Honorable James Inhofe Ranking Member U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee The Honorable Howard P. "Buck" McKeon Chairman U.S. House Armed Services Committee The Honorable Adam Smith Ranking Member U.S. House Armed Services Committee Dear Chairman Levin, Chairman McKeon, Ranking Member Inhofe, and Ranking Member Smith: As your committees work diligently to produce a bipartisan and bicameral National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), I would like to express my strong support for the Land Conveyance, Former U.S. Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point, Norwalk, California amendment to be included in final conference version of the Fiscal Year 2015 NDAA. The Norwalk land conveyance amendment was approved by voice vote in en bloc on May 22, 2014 as part of the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 4435). If enacted, it will facilitate the transfer of a portion of the U.S. Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point, also known as the Norwalk Tank Farm, to the City of Norwalk. It would allow 15 acres of the 51 acre area to be designated for public purposes and transferred to the City of Norwalk. This amendment is a reflection of years of leadership and compromise between the City of Norwalk and the U.S. Air Force. Once this land is transferred, this currently blighted property will mean real opportunity for the City of Norwalk and surrounding communities. This property is currently located next to an elementary school and a child care learning center – once the land has been completely cleaned and the park is built, children will have somewhere safe to go afterschool and on weekends. The Norwalk land conveyance amendment has real implications for communities in my District. I urge you to include this amendment in final conference version of the National Defense Authorization Act. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress
10.22.2014	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement today after the Social Security Administration announced its Cost-Of-Living-Adjustment (COLA) will increase benefits paid to recipients by 1.7% in 2015. “Social Security benefits are a lifeline for more than 58 million Americans. As the cost of food, gas, and housing increases, we have to make sure that Social Security benefits continue to meet Americans’ most basic needs,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Those who have worked hard their entire life deserve to retire with financial security. That is why I introduced the Strengthen Social Security Act- legislation that would to improve the standard of living for current and future beneficiaries.” The Strengthening Social Security Act of 2013 would change the benefit calculation formula used by the Social Security Administration to increase benefits for beneficiaries by approximately $70 per month. It also makes changes to the Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA) formula to better reflect the increasing costs seniors face today. Combined, these changes are estimated to preserve the Social Security Trust Fund through 2049 and reduce the 75 year actuarial deficit by approximately 50%. “We need to ensure Social Security works for the millions of Americans who contributed to the program through a lifetime of hard work. I urge my colleagues to support the Strengthen Social Security Act so that we can keep our promise to seniors and allow them to retire with dignity.” ###
10.22.2014	Members Express Concern Over Jimmy John’s Required Non-Compete Agreements and Impact on Workers’ Rights, Free Competition (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, and Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), co-founder and co-chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, called on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Department of Labor (DOL) to investigate the hiring practices of Jimmy John’s sandwich chain following media reports that the company requires low-wage workers to sign non-compete agreements that severely impact workers’ rights and stifle market competition. In a letter, signed by more than 35 of their colleagues, Crowley and Sánchez expressed concern that company-wide non-compete agreements, which are typically reserved for executives out of a need to protect propriety information, are inconsistent with trade and labor laws and intimidate low-wage workers. “Non-competition agreements may sometimes make sense for well-compensated core company leadership, who are privy to company secrets and strategies. However, applying them to a company’s entire workforce looks more like bullying under color of law, as well as a violation of labor rights,” wrote the lawmakers in the letter. Furthermore, the members are troubled by the excessive restrictions reportedly included in these agreements, such as banning employees from working for any establishment that serves sandwiches and operates within three miles of any Jimmy John’s 2,000-plus locations, both while employed by the company and up to two years after their employment has ended. “Forcing rank-and-file, low-wage workers to sign non-compete agreements also stifles the ability of these workers to seek out new opportunities for their own betterment, and runs counter to the American ideal of open competition, which allows individuals the opportunity to seek employment at higher wages,” continued the letter. The letter asks the FTC and DOL to investigate Jimmy John’s hiring practices, determine the impact these agreements have on both workers’ rights and free competition, and take action to deter or prevent such agreements from impacting employees. Today’s letter follows a successful effort by Crowley and Sánchez to secure higher wages for concession workers in federal buildings. In February, the lawmakers led 50 House Democrats in a letter to President Obama urging him to include these workers in his executive order raising the minimum wage for federal contractors. In June, the Department of Labor announced the proposed rule to implement the President’s executive order would include concession workers in federal buildings. ###
09.17.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution that funds the government through December 11, 2014 and grants the President authority to take action against ISIL in Iraq and Syria: “With the passage of today’s continuing resolution, Congress has avoided another disastrous government shutdown,” said Rep. Sanchez. “However, I am disappointed that we continue to pass short term measures as a means to fund government operations. I will continue to advocate for passage of an appropriations bill that funds our government for a full fiscal year and provides our economy with the financial certainty it needs to continue to grow. I also voted in favor of an amendment that grants the President authority to train moderate rebels in Syria to aid our efforts in combating ISIL. If left unchecked, ISIL could evolve to present a serious threat to our national security. Although I still have strong reservations about intervening in the Syria, I was reassured by the President’s statements indicating he will not commit U.S. troops to military action on the ground. After more than a decade of war in the Middle East, I do not support sending our brave young men and women back into a war zone. We cannot repeat the mistakes of the past and enter into a conflict without a clear, long-term strategy that addresses the fundamental military, social, economic and political problems that we seek to relieve. Our troops are a precious resource and we should not send them into harm’s way without a clear and responsible action plan. Should developments change in the following months, I expect the President to seek Congressional approval before committing us to further military involvement in the region.” ###
09.16.2014	Washington, DC- Today Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-42) introduced draft legislation that would reform the U.S. tax code to protect high-skilled quality jobs here at home: “Our tax code should reward companies that keep high-wage and high-skilled jobs in the United States. The discussion draft of the U.S. Jobs Protection Actwould place restrictions on companies that eliminate or outsource more than 30% of their company’s U.S. jobs in the first 24 months after an acquisition,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Those companies would be subject to new tax disincentives to reduce the lure to shift jobs overseas. Keeping and creating more high-quality jobs here at home should be a priority of our tax system. These types of jobs support middle class families and the last thing we want is for them to be swept out of the U.S by companies that try to game the federal tax system. While we still need comprehensive tax reform, our draft legislation focuses on the need for short term solutions that can be implemented while we work to get overall reform done.” A copy of the draft legislation can be found here. For a section-by section summary, click here. ###
09.11.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama outlined his plan to combat the threat posed by the jihadist group ISIL: “The events of the last several months- including the terrorizing of minority communities in Iraq and Syria, the brutal murder of two U.S. journalists, and heightened rhetoric against our country- have made it clear that the Islamic State poses a threat to U.S. interests and our national security. Tonight, President Obama outlined his plan to combat the Islamic State with continued targeted airstrikes and international and regional partnerships meant to hamper the group’s reign of terror. While I support heightened aggression against key Islamic State targets in Iraq, I have reservations about expanding airstrikes into Syria. Committing U.S. military involvement to a country that is undergoing a complicated and lengthy civil war has serious potential international implications. More specifically, I am concerned about the possibility of a protracted military campaign that might put American troops in future danger. I urge the administration to think ahead and develop a detailed assessment of how the U.S. would respond should airstrikes in Syria lead to more serious military involvement. I trust that the President will act accordingly and seek Congressional approval should additional military action, beyond what he outlined tonight, is needed in the region.” ###
08.14.2014	Highlights business’ role in creating jobs and protecting the environment Cerritos, CA- As part of her continuing support for local manufacturers, Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today toured the John Crane facility in Cerritos, CA, to highlight the role their products and services play in protecting the environment. “Supporting our local businesses and manufacturers remains one of my top priorities in Congress,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The site’s 44 employees are turning out first-class industrial products that not only contribute to economic growth and jobs here in California, but also provide environmental benefits worldwide.” Congresswoman Sánchez toured the facility at the invitation of the company’s managers, who showed her the innovative solutions John Crane delivers to energy service customers to improve equipment reliability and performance. “John Crane is creating products here in California that help people all over the world. High-quality sealing technology is making it possible for us to develop and use energy resources in America and around the globe in ways that are more efficient and reduce emissions for everyone.” The visit was also an opportunity for Congresswoman Sánchez to voice her support for the Environmental Protection Agency’s efforts to reduce methane leakage, including methane escaping from the rapidly expanding oil and gas market. Collaboration between government and industry would not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also provide new markets for the sealing devices that American workers are making. Cooperation with the business community will help government reduce methane emissions and build a safer environment “I am convinced that we can reduce the risks from climate change with American-made products and create more jobs in California while we’re doing it,” she said. “I am committed to fighting for our nation’s manufacturers and commend our local businesses for their work to support our economy.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez is a strong supporter of the House Democrats’ “Make it America” agenda, which promotes policies that create American jobs and expand America’s manufacturing sector. When we create products at home, we grow our economy, promote competitiveness, and help working families. John Crane is a global leader in engineered technology, supplying engineered products and services to energy services customers and other major process industries. The company designs and manufactures a variety of products including mechanical seals, couplings, bearings, and artificial lift equipment. The products meet or exceed all emissions standards and can help reduce fugitive emissions from vital applications. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, DC- In a letter addressed to Secretary of State John Kerry, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today urged the Department of State to consider implementing programs that would allow individuals to apply for U.S. refugee status from their country of origin. Known as in-country processing, the programs would help stem the flow of migrant children coming to the United States. Last week, administration officials indicated that a pilot program is currently being considered for individuals looking to migrate from Honduras. “The humanitarian crisis at the border requires commonsense solutions, not more money for security contractors,” said Rep. Sánchez. “The in-country processing plan would deter individuals, especially young children, from making the perilous journey to the U.S. Furthermore, the program is designed to give individuals the opportunity to apply for refugee status in an orderly and law-abiding manner.” Congresswoman Sánchez also urged the Department of State to consider expanding the pilot program to El Salvador and Guatemala. Both countries have seen high numbers of children fleeing violence at home. The letter comes as House Republicans look to vote on legislation this week that appropriates limited funds for humanitarian efforts, but more than $405 million to increase security along the border. “As Congress works to address the large number of unaccompanied minors entering our country, I urge my Republican colleagues to look to programs like this as an alternative to the further militarization of the border. We need practical, commonsense solutions, not gridlock and partisanship.” A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
07.29.2014	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda Sánchez testified before the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to highlight the disproportionate impact that pollution has on Latino communities. The hearing was held to discuss the EPA’s proposed Clean Power Plan, which aims to address climate change and reduce levels of carbon pollution by 30% by 2030. Below are Congresswoman Sánchez’ full remarks: “Good morning. I am Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. I proudly represent California’s 38th Congressional District. Thank you for the opportunity to testify about the importance of the EPA’s Clean Power Plan. I am here to lend a voice to the minority communities across our country whose health and livelihood are affected by poor environmental conditions. As a lawmaker, environmentalist, and most importantly, as a mother, I am here to advocate on behalf of the full implementation of the Clean Power Plan. I understand the urgency associated with combating sources of pollution that are contributing to climate change and posing serious health risks to our general population. As the representative of a district with large Latino and Asian American communities, my constituents stand to lose the most if we fail to implement the plan’s carbon reduction guidelines. 31% of Latinos live within 30 miles of a power plant. Equally alarming is the fact that Latinos are also 165% more likely to live in counties with unhealthy levels of particulate matter pollution. The consequences of these environmental conditions are evident in the high rates of asthma among Latino community. Today, over 3.6 million Latinos in the U.S. suffer from asthma, including one in ten Latino children. As a mother, these numbers are unacceptable and they underscore the need for a commonsense plan to reduce carbon pollution, especially from high producing sources such as power plants. In the United States today, power plants are the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions and they produce one-third of all domestic greenhouse emissions. Despite these staggering statistics, carbon pollution from power plants is currently not regulated. Regulating their carbon output would help reduce pollutants that contribute to the soot and smog that make people sick. I am here to declare that we can no longer afford to wait to act on climate change. I want a safe and secure future for my son, and I think millions of parents across the country would agree with me. As government officials, we are tasked with promoting the well-being of our citizens and I know we can do more to address the health risks associated with carbon pollution. The Clean Power Plan is a serious step toward protecting Americans from the consequences of climate change. It clearly outlines the changes that must be made in order to limit the health and economic costs associated with carbon pollution. If implemented, the Clean Power Plan would help cut pollution by 30% from 2005 levels and result in $55-93 billion in health and climate benefits. I know this change is possible. My home state of California has already implemented many of the guidelines proposed by the EPA and the facts speak for themselves—California has the 4th lowest carbon emissions in the nation, and our electric bills are 25% below average. The benefits are significant, but the costs of not acting are much greater. On behalf of our country, my constituents, and the 28 million Hispanics living in areas with unhealthy levels of ozone, I urge you to fully implement the Clean Power Plan.” ###
07.11.2014	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today in memory of her beloved dog Chavo: “It is with a heavy heart that I say goodbye to the furriest and most loyal member of my team. With his soulful brown eyes and mellow demeanor, Chavo made quick friends in Washington. He was always willing to greet visitors from the comfort of his office couch and he had the uncanny ability to put everyone who walked through my office door at ease with a simple wag of his tail. It was President Truman who said, ‘If you want a friend in Washington, get a dog.’ I’m going to miss my best friend. “ Congresswoman Sánchez adopted Chavo in 2005 from an animal shelter in Pennsylvania. He was a regular in her Washington, DC office and the longest serving member of Team Sánchez. ###
07.09.2014	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, issued the following statement today after the House Armed Services Committee released transcripts of interviews conducted with military commanders during the investigation into the Benghazi attacks: “The newly released transcripts help highlight the level of scrutiny and thoroughness that has gone into investigating the Benghazi attacks. Previous investigations, including those conducted by four House panels and the Senate Intelligence Committee, have consistently discredited the conspiracy theories surrounding the events of the night of the attack. Two months after its formation, we are still waiting for a schedule and a clear outline of the questions that the committee is tasked with answering. It remains incumbent on Republicans to prove that this committee is more than an opportunity to fundraise and score political points. The American people and the families of those who perished in the attack deserve an honest process, not a rehashing of conspiracy theories that have already been debunked.” ###
06.20.2014	(Washington, D.C.) –This morning, Governor Brown signed a budget that includes additional funding and a long-term commitment to provide pre-kindergarten opportunities for all low-income 4-year-olds in California. With a $264 million initial commitment starting this year, California will soon offer 234,000 low-income 4 year-olds a quality pre-K education, as well as a commitment to reach full implementation in future years. “As a mother of a young 5-year old, I understand the importance of investing in early childhood education,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The academic achievement gap starts at a very young age and having a preschool system that is inclusive of all 4-year olds, regardless of their families financial status, is crucial for our students’ long-term educational success.” Furthermore, these funds ensure agencies will continue to implement pre-kindergarten programs geared towards children from low-income and immigrant families, such as the Early Start and Head Start programs. “When I was a child, Head Start helped me start school at the same educational level as my peers, even though I was raised speaking a different language and of a modest background,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. This agreement helps support these types of programs so they have teachers with high qualifications, small classes, and strong family engagement programs. “I commend leaders of the Legislature for taking our shared commitment of improving early childhood education and turning it into action.” ###
06.16.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement today in support of outraged North Carolinians in response to the extreme, right-wing legislation enacted by Governor Pat McCrory and the Republican-controlled state legislature. “I applaud working families in North Carolina protesting the deplorable policies enacted by the state legislature and Governor McCrory. Moral Mondays is one of the longest running progressive protests aimed at protecting all North Carolina working families and pushing back against the extremist agenda of North Carolina Republicans. These North Carolinians strongly believe that government has a responsibility to its people to provide good jobs with fair wages, strong education opportunities, basic access to healthcare and assistance for those struggling to get by.” “Hardworking North Carolinians also have the right to speak up—without the fear of retaliation—when they see or experience injustice. The North Carolina legislature’s treatment of its citizens is an outrage, and the time has come to restore the expression of free speech and assembly in North Carolina. I stand in solidarity with the brave North Carolinians who are fighting against Republican legislators’ efforts to steal their livelihoods. These citizens deserve to be heard without fear of retribution from the very government that is meant to support and protect them.” ###
06.13.2014	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, Rep. Joe Crowley (D-NY), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, and Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), co-founder and co-chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, released the following statement welcoming the Department of Labor’s (DOL) proposed rule to raise the minimum wage for federal contractors to $10.10 an hour, including concession workers in federal buildings. In February, Crowley and Sánchez led 50 House Democrats in a letter to President Obama urging him to include concession workers in federal buildings, such as those working for fast food businesses, in an executive order raising the wages of federal contractors. “This will help fast food workers, dry-cleaning workers, souvenir shop workers, and many more if the final rule is adopted. Economists and experts across the nation agree: raising the minimum wage will help lift hardworking Americans out of poverty and will help build an economy that works for everyone. The majority of workers in the $200-billion-a-year fast food industry – many of whom work in concessions – are family breadwinners, however they are not paid enough to make ends meet. Raising the minimum wage not only provides stability to affected workers and their families, but it also has a positive impact across the broader U.S. economy. That’s why we urged President Obama to also consider concession workers in federal buildings in his Executive Order, and we are pleased that the proposed rule includes these hardworking Americans. We have to make sure this rule stays intact and moves forward. And, as cosponsors of the Fair Minimum Wage Act, we will continue to push House Republicans to bring to a vote a broad minimum wage increase not just for those working in federal buildings but for all Americans.” The draft rule will now go through a 30-day public comment period and stakeholder feedback process before being finalized. ###
05.30.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) released the following statement today after the Department of Commerce announced Southern California was selected to be one of twelve communities participating in the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership Program (IMCP). “Southern California has the resources, infrastructure and trained workforce to make this manufacturing partnership a success,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The IMCP will bring advanced manufacturing jobs to the region and allow Southern California to continue being a leader in innovation and cutting edge technology. As a member of the Ways & Means Committee, I look forward to working with local leaders, my congressional colleagues, and the Department of Commerce to support innovative Southern California businesses as they build upon our strong foundation of cutting-edge domestic manufacturing.” Congresswoman Sánchez serves as the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means Manufacturing Tax Reform Working Group, which reviews current tax law for the U.S. manufacturing sector. ###
05.30.2014	Washington, DC- Today,Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced legislation to recognize June as Immigrant Heritage Month. The resolution is the first of its kind and acknowledges the United States’ rich migrant history and the impact immigrants have had in making this a strong, resilient country. “Our country has a rich and storied history thanks in part to the contributions of immigrants,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Immigrants helped found this great nation and they continue to help it grow and prosper. Recognizing June as Immigrant Heritage Month honors their influence and the role they continue to play in shaping the history and culture of the United States. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this resolution to celebrate the contributions of past, present and future immigrants.” ###
05.21.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) made the following statement after she was selected to serve on the House Select Committee on Benghazi: “I am honored to have been asked to serve on this select committee with colleagues that I trust and respect. When your Leader asks you to serve your country on a select committee, it makes sense to be in that room,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Although I am disheartened that we are putting the families affected by this tragedy through this partisan exercise, I am committed to looking at the evidence and making decisions based on what that evidence shows. Leaving politics out of the room is going to be a challenge for this committee, but our responsibility to the American people is to carefully analyze the facts, and not just make up allegations. I hope my Republicans colleagues will adhere to the same principles.” ###
05.19.2014	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Congressman Doug Lamborn (R-CO) introduced H.R. 4672, the Credit Reporting Act for Military Families. If enacted,the bipartisan legislation would allow credit reporting agencies to notify deployed military service members when a “negative information alert” is posted on their credit report. “Our service members make tremendous sacrifices for our country, their credit score should not be one of them,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “However, too many of them face challenges when they return home because of missed payments incurred while they were deployed. The Credit Reporting Act for Military Families will give service members more control over their finances and the peace of mind that they will not encounter unforeseen problems when they are ready to purchase a car or a home.” The Credit Reporting Act for Military Families allows deployed service personnel to notify credit reporting agencies of a military deployment. Secondly, it authorizes reporting agencies to contact deployed service members when an adverse action is posted on their credit report. Both actions would give creditors more context about the circumstances under which service members accrue missed payments. “When men and women in uniform deploy on behalf of our country they should not be stuck worrying about their credit rating,” said Rep. Doug Lamborn. “I’m pleased to have the opportunity to work with Representative Sánchez on this important bill which will provide enhanced credit protections for service members and help ensure that our nation’s heroes have the tools they need to keep their own finances in order while serving our country.” Rep. Sánchez introduced the legislation after district resident John Kelsall, President & CEO of the Greater Lakewood Chamber of Commerce, shared with her stories of service members and veterans who had trouble obtaining business and home loans because of missed payments while they were deployed. "Many times our military members find themselves with dings on their credit that mostly happens when they are deployed, through no fault of their own,” said John Kelsall President & CEO of the Greater Lakewood Chamber of Commerce. “It doesn't seem fair that those who volunteer to serve their country should suffer the consequence of paperwork mishaps." In addition to affecting personal finances, poor credit can also negatively impact security clearance for military personnel. According to VeteransPlus, a non-profit that promotes financial literacy among military families, delinquent indebtedness is the number one reason the Department of Defense denies or revokes security clearances for service members. H.R. 4672 has been endorsed by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, National Consumer Law Center, and the Consumers Federation of America. ###
05.15.2014	Washington, DC- Today Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) introduced legislation to facilitate the transfer of a portion of the U.S. Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point, also known as the Norwalk Tank Farm, to the City of Norwalk. If enacted, the bill would allow 15 acres of the 51 acre area to be designated for public purposes and transferred to the City of Norwalk at no cost. “My office has been working with the U.S. Air Force and the City of Norwalk to reach an agreement that would turn the former environmental hazard area into a recreational space for the community,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I am pleased that today’s bill is the culmination of almost 20 years of advocacy by local leaders to ensure the site is restored and safe for public use. Despite the gridlock in Congress, I am committed to doing everything I can to ensure that this legislation is passed and signed into law.” The City of Norwalk has advocated for years to have a portion of the land allocated as open space for the community. Under the legislation introduced today, 15 acres would be designated for a public park and recreation area. "Rarely does an opportunity arise where a single piece of legislation can so dramatically transform an obsolete asset into a dynamic community resource," said Marcel Rodarte, Mayor, City of Norwalk. "We applaud the efforts of Congresswoman Linda Sánchez and the support of the US Air Force to help our community finally see progress on its long-standing vision to revitalize the area. This is a well-crafted bill that's a win-win-win for everyone, especially the public." If enacted, the legislation grants the City of Norwalk ownership and gives them the ability to move forward with making use of the 15 acres of land. Background: The site was used by the U.S. Air Force to store jet fuel supplies from the 1950’s until 2001. Extensive environmental restoration has been underway at the Norwalk Tank Farm since 1994. ###
04.10.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today after the Department of Labor reported that the unemployment rate fell to a five-year low of 6.3% and the economy added 288,000 jobs in the month of April “The April jobs report is a sign our economy continues to move in the right direction,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “As a member of the Ways & Means Committee, I am working hard to push for policies that will continue to grow our economy, including strengthening our manufacturing sector and focusing on smart tax policies that matter to hardworking families. Although today’s unemployment rate is the lowest since September 2008, I urge my colleagues to not turn their backs on the long-term unemployed who are still struggling to find work. More than 2.6 million Americans, including 339,000 Californians, are waiting for House Republicans to reinstate the unemployment insurance benefits that they paid into. Something is wrong when we cannot act to address the needs of the most vulnerable Americans. I know we can do better for our working class and middle class families. I stand ready to work with my colleagues in the House to move our country forward.” ##
04.10.2014	Washington, DC- Today Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after she cast her vote against the misguided and irresponsible Republican FY 2015 budget: “This budget is balanced on the backs of seniors, working class Americans, and our children,” said Rep. Sanchez. “It offers more of the same Republican policy agenda- provides exceptions for wealthy special interests at the expense of everyone else. We cannot move our country forward by cutting infrastructure investments, gutting education programs like Pell Grants and Head Start, and ending Medicare as we know it. The Ryan budget does all of the above. It is irresponsible and a disservice to the American people. I remain committed to fighting for policies that will grow our economy and benefit working class families across this country. I hope my Republican colleagues wake up to reality and begin to do the same.” ###
04.10.2014	Washington, DC- This morning, Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) joined the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network (GLSEN) and students from across the country to push for passage of her Safe Schools Improvement Act. The legislation would require school districts to adopt codes of conduct specifically prohibiting bullying and harassment on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and religion. “As a mother, the national bullying statistics break my heart. As a legislator, I know there is more we can do to protect our children from this type of harassment at schools,” said Rep. Sánchez. “We need legislation like the Safe Schools Improvement Act to ensure all our children have a safe learning environment where they can learn without the threat of harassment.” Today’s press conference is a lead up to GLSEN’s National Day of Silence, which seeks to raise awareness about the bullying and harassment of LGBT students. “As we prepare to observe the National Day of Silence, I am proud to lend my voice to raise awareness about the prevalence of bullying in our schools. Every day students are bullied into silence and are too afraid to speak up. Let’s help break this silence and put an end to school bullying. I urge my colleagues to join me in pushing this bill through the House to give students the promise of safer schools.” Background In March, Congresswoman Sánchez re-introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act (H.R. 1199) to provide schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and reduce the rising drop-out rate. The Safe Schools Improvement Act has garnered support more than 100 organizations, including the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network ; the Human Rights Campaign; the National Council of La Raza; and the Anti-Defamation League. Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has been recognized as a leader in working to make schools safe for all students. H.R. 1199 currently has 192 co-sponsors, the highest number of co-sponsors since it was first introduced in the 111th Congress. ###
03.27.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) has introduced legislation honoring Vietnam War veterans. The resolution (H. Res XX) designates March 30, 2014 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” and coincides with the anniversary of the day when the last United States combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. “Too many of our Vietnam War veterans returned home to hostility and harsh ridicule from the American public,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Declaring March 30th as ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ would ensure that they are given proper recognition for dedicating themselves to our country. It is an overdue gesture that conveys our debt of gratitude for their sacrifice and service to our country.” "Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day is of tremendous importance for all who have served our country, not only for our Vietnam Veterans,” said José Ramos, founder of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day. “The love and respect of our great nation is expressed for our Veterans each and every time we gather to thank them for their service. To each and every US honorably discharged Veteran, I say thank you for your service and ‘Welcome home.’" Congresswoman Sánchez has introduced the “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans” resolution every Congress since she was elected in 2002. Her work to honor Vietnam veterans began after she met with constituent José Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA, who has worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. ###
03.12.2014	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) took to the House floor to speak against two misguided immigration bills- the ENFORCE Act and the Faithful Execution of the Law Act of 2014. A transcript of her remarks is included below: “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise to speak against a misguided anti-immigration bill that is being considered in the House today. The ENFORCE Act would challenge the executive order that halts the deportation of young people who are studying and working to become contributing members of our society. This is another attack on immigrant communities by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. It’s proof that their actions don’t match their rhetoric. They want the Latino community’s support, but they refuse to allow a vote on comprehensive immigration reform. Instead of working to keep hardworking families together, they are punishing communities by pushing misguided legislation. To my republican colleagues, you can’t have it both ways. The facts are simple: passing comprehensive immigration reform would grow our economy by $1.4 trillion and reduce our deficit by $850 billion. You can’t just say you support Latinos, Asians and other immigrant communities. You have to do something about it. You have to walk the walk. Here’s some free advice- if you don’t want an empty conference room when you are attempting “minority outreach,” then pass comprehensive immigration reform!” For video of her remarks, click here. ###
02.26.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) introduced his tax reform proposal: “I applaud Chairman Camp for taking a step toward meaningful tax reform,” said Rep. Sanchez. “Although both parties are sure to find faults with parts of the proposal, it is a serious attempt to simplify and improve our outdated tax code. My staff and I are still reviewing the full details of the bill, but I am encouraged by the acknowledgment that research and development is key to the revival of our domestic manufacturing sector. We must invest in research and development if we want to create good paying jobs for working families in the U.S. I hope that today’s proposal sparks further serious discussion about how Congress can create a federal tax code that supports American industry and hardworking Americans. We need a tax code that is simpler, fairer, provides economic certainty, and ensures that everyone pays their fair share. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on the committee to accomplish this goal.” ###
01.15.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today after the House passed an omnibus budget bill that funds government agencies for FY2014: “Today’s budget agreement remedies some of the disastrous sequester cuts, avoids another potential government shutdown, and provides a minimum amount of certainty for our markets and economy,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It fully funds programs like SNAP and Head Start and restores some dignity to our disabled veterans by re-establishing cost-of-living adjustments to their pensions. However, today’s bill was far from perfect. It was rushed without giving members enough time to advocate for their district priorities. Local municipalities in my district will be affected by cuts to the Community Development Block Grant program (CDBG). With tight budgets and diminishing resources, a $278 million cut to the CDBG will make it harder for cities to conduct community development projects. Furthermore, the omnibus bill left 1.5 million American workers out in the cold. Without an extension of unemployment insurance benefits, millions across the country will continue to struggle to make ends meet because Republicans could not summon the courage to allow for an extension. With a budget completed, I hope Congress gets serious about tackling some of the other big issues at hand- including, unemployment insurance benefits, comprehensive immigration reform, and tax reform.” ###
01.14.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after U.S. District Judge Anita Broday rejected a $765 million NFL concussion settlement. “I support the court’s decision. The settlement does not do enough to ensure that the NFL is taking all the necessary precaution to protect its active and retired players,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Players and their families need peace of mind that the NFL is going to take full responsibility and help them navigate the challenges that come with traumatic head injuries.” Background In 2007, Congresswoman Sánchez chaired a hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law to examine if the NFL’s player disability plan was adequately serving former players, many of whom suffer from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) as a result of multiple concussions. In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez participated in multiple hearings regarding head injuries and football, and grilled NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell over the league’s concussion awareness campaign. These hearings resulted in greater public awareness and changes to how football teams address player concussions on all levels of play. ###
01.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC —Representatives Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and Jared Polis (CO-02) today made the following statement on a Senate proposal to deny millions of working, taxpaying families the Child Tax Credit (CTC): “Senator Ayotte’s amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Extension Act would eliminate a vital resource that millions of hard-working, legally-present families rely on to provide for their children. This misguided plan would disproportionately harm the Latino community, plunging countless families into poverty, and putting more strain on government support programs. “This type of legislation distracts from the real issues facing our nation: the need to extend unemployment insurance and pass comprehensive immigration reform. The House has been following Senator Ayotte’s lead, bringing forward only anti-immigration amendments that hurt the economy and tear families apart, rather than allowing a vote on H.R. 15, a bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform bill with 193 cosponsors. “We urge the Senate to reject this proposal and hope that Congress can get back to working on real solutions to our nation’s problems, not time wasting measures that harm those working the hardest to support their families and drive our economy forward.”
01.09.2014	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after Chairman Senator Max Baucus and Chairman Congressman David Camp release their plan for trade legislation: “The Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation proposed today falls short in many respects, including the role Congress should play in crafting trade agreements, transparency, and the need for provisions that strengthen US competitiveness,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This legislation will make it easier to ship jobs overseas at a time when Congress should be doubling down on building middle class jobs in America. I cannot support any Fast Track legislation that does not focus on American competitiveness or protect American jobs. Furthermore, it is difficult to think of a worse time for Congress to debate Fast Track Authority. We should be focused on extending unemployment insurance, increasing the minimum wage, and creating good paying middle class jobs.” ###
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON. D.C. -- Congressman Sánchez today released a letter to Boeing CEO W. James McNerney, Jr. calling on the aerospace firm to select Long Beach, California as the manufacturing site for the next generation 777x airliner. Congressman Sánchez joined letter author Congressman Alan Lowenthal and 45 other members of the California Congressional delegation in signing the letter which highlights the advantages to Boeing in selecting Long Beach as the home of the 777x. These highlights include an in-place and highly-trained Boeing workforce, which is currently building the Boeing C-17 Globemaster III; an existing 1-million square foot assembly facility; a world-class infrastructure including highways, rail, and one of the most modern ports in the world; an educational system that turns out some of the world's most highly trained aerospace and engineering graduates; and, a highly developed local and regional system of parts and component suppliers. “Boeing’s newest production line has the potential to bring thousands of high-quality jobs to parts of my district,” Congressman Sánchez said. “The workforce is ready and able, the technology is abundant, and the infrastructure is already set in place. California is world renowned for its high-tech minds and its cutting edge technology and aerospace manufacturing. This is a win-win for California and Boeing.” Various versions of the 777 have been manufactured by Boeing since the mid-1990s and the 777x program will see the construction of at least two new highly-modernized versions. The program could last through the 2020s, creating thousands of Boeing jobs in Southern California and thousands more support and supplier jobs throughout California. Boeing announced in November that it would be seeking bids from interested states and/or cities for the 777x manufacturing work. California Governor Jerry Brown announced on Dec. 11 that California had submitted an official bid to Boeing to bring the 777x program to Long Beach. The bid package included the letter signed by Congressman Sánchez. For full copy of the letter click here. ###
12.13.2013	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after she voted “no” on the budget agreement considered before the House: “I commend the House and Senate for reaching a bipartisan agreement amid a climate of gridlock and obstruction, however I could not in good conscious vote for a deal that does not expand unemployment benefits for 1.3 million hard working Americans and is balanced on the backs of federal employees and military retirees,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “With a simple amendment, House Republicans could have given millions of families a little peace of mind by extending the unemployment insurance benefits they depend on. Furthermore, this deal kicks the can down the road with no clear indication that Congress is ready to tackle some of the biggest issues facing our country- creating jobs, improving infrastructure, tax reform, and ensuring that earned benefit programs are secure for our seniors. The American people want real solutions to our nation’s problems. I hope that we can build on this moment of small, yet significant, bipartisanship so that we can live up to our responsibilities as representatives and tackle the tough issues ahead.” ###
12.11.2013	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after the budget conference committee reached a deal on the budget: "In the current climate of gridlock and obstruction the budget agreement reached between the House and Senate is a step in the right direction of bipartisan compromise. However, it will be difficult to support any budget deal that targets hard working federal employees and does not extend emergency unemployment benefits for the 1.3 millions of Americans struggling to find work. I will continue to review the details of the budget deal and evaluate how it will impact my constituents." ###
12.04.2013	Washington, DC – In a letter led by Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38), today 53 Congressional leaders, including Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-5) and Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-3), urged the top five fast food chains in this country to improve working conditions and raise the minimum wage for their employees. The letter comes as front line fast food workers prepare to organize a nationwide strike on Thursday to improve wages and working conditions. It was sent to executives at McDonald’s, Burger King Worldwide, Yum! Brands (operates and licenses Taco Bell, KFC, Pizza Hut, and WingStreet restaurants worldwide), the Wendy’s Company, and Domino’s Pizza. “It’s time to super size the minimum wage of fast food workers in this country. Workers in the fast food industry are struggling to make ends meet. When wages become too low to sustain a living, taxpayers shoulder the burden of helping families with the use of public assistance programs. With record profits, these companies should pay workers fair wages and put more money in the hands of consumers who can help strengthen our economy.” - Rep. Linda Sánchez “On Tuesday we found out that fast food CEOs are abusing old loopholes to keep tens of millions of dollars in bonuses without paying their taxes. They really have no excuse for not paying their employees a reasonable wage. You can’t live on $23,000 a year in this country no matter who you are or what kind of family you’re supporting. It’s especially hard when your boss makes $30 million a year and tells you to go to the food bank for the holidays. Paying a living wage is the only way forward for the fast food industry and the economy, and it’s time to start now.”- Rep. Raúl Grijalva “Too many people who work all day feeding fast-food customers don’t make enough money to feed their own children when they get home. No one working full-time should live in poverty. It’s time for fast-food corporations to raise wages for their employees.”- Rep. Keith Ellison The median pay for front line fast food workers is just $8.69, with many jobs paying at or near the minimum wage. According to a recent report by the University of California-Berkley, more than half of front line fast food workers earn so little they are forced to enroll their families in public assistance, costing taxpayers $7 billion per year. The full text of the letters, including a list of all the members supporting it, can be viewed by clicking on the links below. Letter to McDonald's Letter to Burger King Letter to Wendy's Letter to Domino's Letter to Yum! Brands
09.18.2013	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) announced the introduction of the Strengthening Social Security Act of 2013 (H.R. 3118) which would bolster current benefits while making Social Security stronger for future generations. “Americans who have worked hard their entire lives have the right to retire with dignity and financial security,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “That is the promise Social Security continues to keep for millions of Americans who count on their earned benefits to make ends meet. Our seniors’ ‘golden years’ should be just that—living in good health, without financial insecurity. The Strengthening Social Security Act not only improves the standard of living for current and future beneficiaries, but it would extend the solvency of one of our country’s most successful anti-poverty programs.” The Strengthening Social Security Act of 2013 improves the short-term and long-term health of Social Security in three steps. First, H.R. 3118 would change the benefit calculation formula the Social Security Administration uses, which would increase benefits for all Social Security beneficiaries by approximately $70 per month. Second, the Strengthening Social Security Act would change the way the Social Security Administration calculates the Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA), ensuring that benefits better reflect the increasing costs facing seniors today. Third, H.R. 3118 would phase out the current taxable cap of $113,700 so that all Americans contribute to Social Security taxes fairly. Combined, these changes are estimated to preserve the Social Security Trust Fund through 2049 and reduce the 75 year actuarial deficit by approximately 50%. “Right now, millionaires and billionaires are being given a free pass: an absolute cap on their contributions to Social Security,” said Congressman Rush Holt (NJ-12). “No matter how many millions of dollars they earn, they don’t contribute even a penny more in taxes. This is wrong. It’s time to preserve and expand Social Security by asking the very wealthy to pay the same Social Security tax rate as everyone else.” "We applaud Representative Linda Sanchez's bill which enhances benefits and strengthens the long-term solvency of our Social Security system,” Eric Kingson, Founding Co-Director of Social Security Works. “Americans are fortunate that Representative Sanchez and the bill's co-sponsors recognize that the nation's retirement income crisis must be addressed by building upon, not cutting, our Social Security, the nation's most reliable retirement vehicle, built by hard work and payroll tax contributions over many generations." H.R. 3118 is the House companion to S. 567, introduced by Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) in March, and has been referred to the House Education and the Workforce Committee, as well as the House Committee on Ways and Means, on which Congresswoman Sánchez serves. The Strengthening Social Security Act has garnered support from Social Security Works, Strengthen Social Security Campaign, AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Campaign for Community Change, Paralyzed Veterans of America, UAW, The ARC, Alliance for Retired Americans, National Education Association, United Steelworkers, and the Senior Citizens League. ###
09.17.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released a video greeting and the following statement to commemorate Hispanic Heritage Month, which began this week and runs through October 15th. “The Latino community has made a hugely important impact in our country’s history and culture. Hispanic Heritage Month is a great time to celebrate and recognize these contributions and the ways Latinos continue to help our nation thrive." “Recognizing that Latinos face unique challenges as the fastest growing minority group in the country, it is crucial that Congress works to meet the needs of the Latino community. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to support access to quality and affordable healthcare, comprehensive immigration reform, and college tuition assistance. “I hope that Americans will join me this month in celebrating the valuable contributions that Latinos have made to America’s history and heritage.” To see Congresswoman Sánchez’ video in support of Hispanic Heritage Month, click here. ###
08.19.2013	Washington, DC – Today,Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement after the State of California, in conjunction with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), issued its decision to postpone the MediCal/Medicare dual eligible demonstration project until April 2014. “I am pleased that California will be taking more time to work with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to make sure that dually eligible beneficiaries receive the quality care they deserve,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It is crucial that our seniors and people with disabilities continue to receive all the medical care they need through Medicare and the MediCal program. I continue to hope that California and CMS can develop a demonstration plan that addresses long-term solvency without sacrificing the quality of care for the most vulnerable Californians.” In June, Congresswoman Sánchez led a letter with 13 Los Angeles-area Members of Congress to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services expressing serious concerns with California’s current plan to combine services and funding provided by Medicare and the MediCal program. In the letter to Acting CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner, Congresswoman Sánchez and Members of Congress asked for more review of the Los Angeles County MediCal/Medicare dual eligible demonstration project to ensure that hundreds of thousands of Los Angeles County residents keep crucial health care options. Click here to see to the letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Background In 2010, the monthly average of Californians who are both eligible for the Medi-Cal program and the federal Medicare program was 1.1 million. In Los Angeles County, the monthly average of dual eligible residents is 370,000. Dual eligible patients are typically economically disadvantaged seniors and persons with disabilities. ###
08.05.2013	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) announced the introduction of the Social Security Equality Act of 2013 (H.R. 3050) which would put an end to a Social Security Administration policy that denies benefits to same-sex couples. “It is time for our government to stop telling gay and lesbian couples that they are second class citizens,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Same-sex couples pay into Social Security over the course of their working lives just like other Americans. They should receive the full benefits they have earned. My bill will make sure every American receives a benefit based upon their contribution to Social Security, not their sexual orientation.” The Social Security Equality Act of 2013 would require the Social Security Administration to provide spousal, survivor and death benefits to same sex couples in relationships that have been recognized by the state where they live. Currently, twelve states and the District of Columbia recognize same-sex marriages. Six other states recognize civil unions. “Despite the recent Supreme Court decisions that struck down DOMA and reaffirmed marriage equality in California, millions of LGBT Americans still live in states where they do not have equal access to federal benefits,” said Lorri L. Jean, L.A. Gay & Lesbian Center CEO. “The Social Security Equality Act will help many older LGBT Americans live their lives with the dignity and respect that all older citizens of our country deserve.” In June 2013, the Supreme Court ruled the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional. It is believed that this ruling would require the Social Security Administration to provide full benefits to married, same-sex couples. However, for a same-sex couple who bound by a civil union or domestic partnership and not technically “married,” that couple could be barred from receiving the same benefits as their heterosexual counterparts. H.R. 3050 would provide couples in those states with equal access to the benefits they deserve. H.R. 3050 was introduced with 109 original co-sponsors and has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee on which Congresswoman Sánchez serves. Background Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Social Security Equality Act in the previous two sessions of Congress. H.R. 3050 has garnered support from the LA Gay and Lesbian Center, The Task Force, AIDS Community Action Foundation, SAGE, Human Rights Campaign (HRC), and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. ###
07.24.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the life of Lillian Kawasaki, Board Director of the Water Replenishment District of Southern California. For more than three decades, Kawasaki served the Los Angeles community, directing major initiatives to protect the environment and improve air and water quality. To view the video clip of Congresswoman Sánchez speaking on the House floor, click here. Below is a copy of Congresswoman Sánchez’s statement for the Congressional Record: STATEMENT FOR THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD HONORING LILLIAN KAWASAKI Rep. Linda T. Sánchez July 24, 2013 Thank you Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Lillian Kawasaki, who proudly served the Los Angeles community for more than three decades, working tirelessly to protect our environment. Lillian was an inspiration and a trailblazer. In 1990, she was named general manager of the Department of Environmental Affairs for the City of Los Angeles, becoming the first Asian-American in city history to be appointed a department chief. It is because of Lillian’s leadership that Los Angeles launched major initiatives in air and water quality protection and environmental cleanup. Local businesses began investing in renewable energy—thanks to Lillian’s vision. I had the privilege of working with Lillian when she served as Board Director for the Water Replenishment District. It would be hard to find a public official more involved in her community than Lillian. On a personal note, it was an honor to call her a close friend. Lillian was an extraordinarily giving person. She always remembered birthdays and anniversaries. She asked me often how my family and my son were doing because she truly cared. I offer my condolences to Lillian’s husband, to her family and to her loved ones. She was a tremendous public servant, a shining example for others and a generous and truly kind human being and I will miss her greatly. ###
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) questioned U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman during a hearing of the House Committee on Ways and Means titled “President Obama's Trade Policy Agenda." Below are her remarks and question to Ambassador Froman. REP. LINDA SANCHEZ: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And Ambassador Froman, congratulations on your confirmation on thank you for being here to discuss the administration's trade agenda. You're obviously stepping into the U.S. Trade Representative at a very exciting time. The administration is negotiating agreements with the European Union, the Pacific Rim countries and working on a new international services agreement. We also have the issue of congressional action on trade promotion authority or fast-track authority, and the expiring generalized system of preferences programs. And hopefully, tougher trade enforcement rules. I guess the main point that I want to express to you is that in the past I've been highly critical of past U.S. trade representatives because all too often I think that our trade deals that are negotiated are unfair to American workers and that they erode our U.S. manufacturing base. So I just want to share with you a few of the priorities that I think we should keep in mind as you continue your work in that office. First of all, strengthening Customs enforcement to create a level playing field for American industries is something that I'm very interested in seeing. Aggressively trying to crack down on currency manipulators, one of my colleagues mentioned that that results in huge job losses for American businesses. Ensuring high levels of labor and environmental standards in our trade negotiations, and specifically trying to build on the bipartisan May 10th agreement. And so promoting U.S. manufacturing and opening up access to foreign markets. So I look forward to hopefully working with you and my colleagues to ensure that our trade agenda keeps in mind those priorities. You've been asked questions about aggressively cracking down on anti-dumping and countervailing duty violators. That is an area that I'm pleased to see progress on with this administration. But I think we can be doing more there. So I'm going to ask you a question specifically about the Trans-Pacific Partnership because I do have some concerns there. Clearly, Japan's late entry into the Trans-Pacific Partnership has created concerns for the U.S. automotive industry. And for instance, the Japanese automotive companies control more than 94 percent of the domestic Japanese market, making Japan one of the most-closed auto markets in the world. And that's despite the fact that Japanese auto tariffs are at zero percent. So with the TPP negotiations, how does the USTR hope to effectively address Japanese nontariff barriers? AMB. FROMAN: Well, thank you very much. And that, obviously, Japan's auto sector has been an area of concern for, as Ranking Member Levin said, for decades. And it is still very much a concern today. And that's why prior to allowing Japan to come into TPP, we insisted on negotiating certain upfront commitments, both in terms of the reduction of tariffs in the U.S., but also in terms of access to their market, the more than doubling of the PHP program which provides for expedited entry of imports into Japan, but also agreed on the terms of reference for a specific parallel negotiation on the auto sector that will be part of TPP, will be binding, will be subject to dispute resolution. And that negotiations are focused directly at those nontariff barriers that you mentioned. We're looking forward to working with the auto industry here and autoworkers here to get our best understanding of their priorities for that negotiation. But this is a high priority for us and we'll want to make sure that we achieve concrete results through these negotiations. REP. CAMP: All right, thank you. REP. SANCHEZ: Thank you. ###
07.18.2013	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Tom Perez as Secretary of Labor. “Today is a great day for hardworking Americans. Tom Perez has a proven record of fighting for working families and his tenacious work ethic will be a tremendous benefit to the Department of Labor and to working people throughout the nation. He will make an outstanding Secretary of Labor, and I look forward to working with him as we tackle long-term unemployment and immigration reform.” In May, Congresswoman Sánchez led a letter with 138 House Democrats to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell urging them to confirm Tom Perez as Secretary of Labor. Click here to see to the letter to Senators Reid and McConnell. Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves as Second Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and is the Chair of the CHC’s Civil Rights Task Force. ###
07.09.2013	201 House Democrats sign letter urging end to NLRB obstruction Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2) joined American workers at a press conference calling on Senator Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) to stop threatening to block a Senate vote on National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) nominees. At today’s press conference, Sánchez and Courtney also released a letter signed by 201 House Democrats demanding that Senator McConnell end these ideological attacks on workers’ rights and consider the full package of President Obama’s NLRB nominees. “More than 80 million private sector employees rely on the National Labor Relations Board for protection from unfair labor practices,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “By threatening to shut down the NLRB’s ability to function, Senator McConnell and Senate Republicans undermine the very foundation of our country's labor laws and workplace protections. Republicans should stop this reckless attack on workers’ rights. The American people deserve better than this. They deserve to have a fully functioning NLRB so that workers are on equal ground with their employers.” “This blatant attempt to prevent the National Labor Relations Board from functioning for our nation's workers and employers is shameful,” said Congressman Courtney. “Without a functioning board, appeals would not be heard, decisions would not be enforced, and violations of workers' rights would go without remedy. I call on Senator McConnell to drop these obstructionist tactics and allow the Senate to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to consider the President's appointments to the NLRB.” Click here to see the letter sent to Senator McConnell. The full text of the letter is below. July 9, 2013 Senator Mitch McConnell 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senator McConnell: We are writing to express our serious concern over recent press reports detailing your position regarding the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Specifically, your office stated that the Senate will not vote on the full package of Board nominees unless current Board members Ms. Sharon Block and Mr. Richard Griffin are replaced. This is nothing more than a blatant and cynical attempt to shut down the NLRB’s lawful ability to investigate and remedy unfair labor practices. As you are well aware, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (DC Circuit), Noel Canning v. NLRB, decision to invalidate the President Obama’s recess appointments of Ms. Block and Mr. Griffin is not the final legal say on the matter. Therefore, their current nominations should not be disqualified. The President has asked the Supreme Court to review the decision, and there is pending litigation in at least five other district courts. Demanding the resignation of Ms. Block and Mr. Griffin is counterproductive and ignores both legal process and precedent. At the moment, only three members are sitting on the NLRB, with one member’s term due to expire in August. As a result, the Board is at risk of being unable to function. Furthermore, employers are already using the Noel Canning decision to challenge the NLRB’s decisions and the DC Circuit Court is putting these cases on hold, leaving workers without remedy when they are illegally fired or when their employer refuses to negotiate in good faith. These delays and the uncertainty that they cause have real world consequences for American workers. For example, Marcus Hedger from Illinois has lost his family home while waiting for a final decision on his illegal firing[1].In September 2012 a unanimous bipartisan panel of the NLRB determined in that Mr. Hedger was terminated as a result of union activity and ordered that he be reinstated with back pay. However, the company appealed that decision to the DC Circuit Court. In January, the case was delayed due to the Noel Canning decision, leaving Mr. Hedger without any remedy. It has been several years since the situation began and he still is struggling for justice. The NLRB provides critical protections to American workers and gives businesses much needed labor certainty. Each day that the Board sits idle is one in which workers’ lawful rights are put at risk. This continued ideological obstructionism is denying hardworking Americans the crucial worker protections that the NLRB provides. We urge you to withdraw this partisan demand and allow the Senate to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to consider presidential appointments, and to do so without continued delay. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Robert E. Andrews (NJ-1) Ron Barber (AZ-2) John Barrow (GA-12) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Tim Bishop (NY-1) Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (GU- AL) Robert A. Brady (PA-1) Bruce Braley (IA-1) Corrine Brown (FL-5) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Lois Capps (CA-24) Michael E. Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-AL) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Donna Christensen (VI-AL) Judy Chu (CA-27) David Cicilline (RI-1) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emmanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Jim Costa (CA-16) Joe Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Danny K. Davis (IL-7) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Susan DelBene (WA- 1) Ted Deutch (FL-21) John D. Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Mike Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Bill Enyart (IL-12) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Sam Farr (CA-20) Chaka Fattah (PA-2) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-2) Pete P. Gallego (TX-23) John Garamendi (CA-3) Joe Garcia (FL-26) Alan Grayson (FL-9) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-4) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) Jim Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL) Rush Holt (NJ-12) Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Steve Horsford (NV-4) Steny Hoyer (MD-5) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Shelia Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joe Kennedy III (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Dan Lipinski (IL-3) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Dan Maffei (NY-24) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Edward Markey (MA-5) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Carolyn McCarthy (NY-4) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) Jim McGovern (MA-2) Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Michael Michaud (ME-2) George Miller (CA-11) Gwen Moore (WI-4) James P. Moran (VA -8) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard E. Neal (MA-1) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Rick Nolan (MN-8) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Bill Owens (NY-21) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-9) Ed Pastor (AZ-7) Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Gary Peters (MI-14) Scott Peters (CA-52) Collin Peterson (MN-7) Pedro Pierluisi (PR-AL) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Nick J. Rahall, II (WV-3) Charles Rangel (NY-13) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz, M.D. (CA-36) Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) Bobby Rush (IL-1) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-AL) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Brad Schneider (IL-10) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Allison Schwartz (PA-13) David Scott (GA-13) Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-3) Jose E. Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-9) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise M. Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Allan Takano (CA-41) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) John Tierney (MA-6) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Filemon Vela (TX-34) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Pete Visclosky (IN-1) Tim Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) Peter Welch (VT-AL) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3) ### [1]www.nlrb.gov/case/13-CA-046331
06.27.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) congratulated the Senate for passing S. 744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act. This legislation would provide the first comprehensive reform of America’s immigration system in 27 years. "I congratulate the Senate on the passage of comprehensive immigration reform legislation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Immigration reform is overdue - 27 years is far too long and 11 million people want to come out of the shadows. I hope House Republicans will recognize that we need a comprehensive immigration bill which provides a pathway to citizenship, brings families together and meets the needs of our communities, our economy and our country. We can't afford to wait any longer." Today, the Senate passed S. 744 by a margin of 68 to 32. This legislation now moves to the House of Representatives for consideration. The last comprehensive reform of America’s immigration system occurred in 1986. Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves as Second Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and is the Chair of the CHC’s Civil Rights Task Force. ###
06.06.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) issued the following statement today in support of members of the Organization United for Respect at Walmart (OUR Walmart). OUR Walmart members are striking in response to Walmart's illegal retaliation and intimidation tactics. “It’s time for Walmart, America’s largest employer, to live up to its responsibility and reflect the best of American values. American working families deserve no less. Hardworking Americans deserve to be paid a fair, living wage that allows them to provide for themselves and their families. Walmart doesn’t pay competitive wages, and abuses American taxpayers by providing little or no health benefits to their employees. “Hardworking Americans also have the right to speak up—without the fear of retaliation—when they see or experience an injustice while at work. Walmart’s treatment of their employees is an outrage, and time has come to put a stop to these immoral practices. I stand in solidarity with those Walmart employees who are standing up to these tactics and taking their grievances directly to Walmart Headquarters in Bentonville, Arkansas. Walmart should respect these workers’ rights to address workplace injustices. These workers deserve to be heard—without the fear of retribution by Walmart.” Congresswoman Sánchez is a Co-Chair of the House Labor and Working Families Caucus, which she also co-founded. Congresswoman Sánchez is also an active and card-carrying member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical (IBEW) Local 441. ###
06.06.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) slammed House Republicans after they voted to roll back protections from deportation for hundreds of thousands of “DREAMers”—undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children. “I am deeply disappointed that House Republicans would reject such a positive step toward reforming our immigration system,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Today’s vote ignores the fact that the American people fundamentally reject the idea of deporting 800,000 young people who abide by our laws and want to give back to the country they call home. It is time to stop playing politics and fix our broken immigration system so that hardworking people have the opportunity to educate themselves and help our great nation prosper and grow.” Today, House Republicans passed an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act barring funding from being used to implement President Obama’s 2012 order directing the Department of Homeland Security to stop the deportation of individuals who were brought to our country as young people and do not present a risk to national security or public safety. Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves as Second Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) and is the Chair of the CHC’s Civil Rights Task Force. ###
06.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission asking it to examine allegations regarding the business practices of Herbalife, Ltd. In recent months, several organizations have suggested that Herbalife, Ltd. has engaged in marketing practices that take advantage of vulnerable populations such as Hispanic, African-American and low income consumers. The full text of the letter is below. Click here to see the letter sent to the FTC.Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20580 June 5, 2013Dear Chairwoman Ramirez:I am writing to express my concern about the marketing and business practices of Herbalife, Ltd. In particular, I am troubled by allegations that this company may be harming consumers – especially those from our country’s most vulnerable populations. There have been extensive media reports and allegations about Herbalife’s business practices. On March 12, 2013, the National Consumers League wrote a letter urging the FTC to conduct an investigation into the possibility that Herbalife is a complex pyramid scheme . More recently, on May 17, 2013, the Hispanic Federation also wrote a letter urging an FTC investigation . Both groups have voiced concerns over whether Herbalife’s distributors are primarily incentivized by recruiting others, or by selling the Herbalife product. Additionally, as the National Consumers League letter states, “Low-income consumers, as well as African-Americans and Hispanics, were found to be especially vulnerable to pyramid-schemes masquerading as legitimate home-based business opportunities.” As I have learned more about this issue from my constituents and from outside groups, I believe it is the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) responsibility to examine these allegations. Given the FTC’s mission to investigate claims of fraud and potential pyramid schemes, I encourage you to investigate this matter. I have confidence that such an investigation will provide clarity to consumers and I expect you will aggressively pursue it in a timely manner. If I can be of additional assistance, please do not hesitate to contact Mike McGourty of my staff at 202-225-6676 or michael.mcgourty@mail.house.gov. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress (CA-38)###
06.04.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) led a letter with 13 Los Angeles-area Members of Congress to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) expressing serious concerns with California’s current plan to combine services and funding provided by Medicare and the Medi-Cal program. In the letter to Acting CMS Administrator Marilyn Tavenner, Congresswoman Sánchez and Members of Congress asked for more review of the Los Angeles County Medi-Cal/Medicare dual eligible demonstration project to ensure that hundreds of thousands of Los Angeles County residents keep crucial health care options. In 2010, the monthly average of Californians who are both eligible for the Medi-Cal program and the federal Medicare program was 1.1 million. In Los Angeles County, the monthly average of dual eligible residents is 370,000. Dual eligible patients are typically economically disadvantaged seniors and persons with disabilities. “It’s critical that we make sure our most vulnerable neighbors get all the medical care they need through Medicare and the Medi-Cal program,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “While creating savings to ensure long-term solvency is important, those savings can’t be at the expense of providing quality care to seniors and people with disabilities. I would hope that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the State of California can come up with a demonstration plan that fully meets the needs of dually eligible beneficiaries.” Click here to see to the letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The full text of the letter is below. June 4, 2013 Ms. Marilyn Tavenner Acting Administrator Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Ms. Tavenner We appreciate the continued dialogue with you and your staff regarding the California demonstration for dually eligible beneficiaries. Since the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) has been signed between the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and the State, we have heard from numerous constituents in Los Angeles (LA) County expressing concerns and offering suggestions to best ensure implementation runs smoothly. We are writing to offer our reflections and perspectives on these issues. While we appreciate that the MOU delays the implementation of the demonstration in Los Angeles County, we remain concerned that the timeframe and scope are not conducive to a seamless transition for beneficiaries. We are hearing from both provider and beneficiary groups that the provider networks will not yet be ready to handle the influx of a quarter of a million vulnerable individuals. Even with the delayed implementation, we do not believe that there will be sufficient time to educate beneficiaries and their caretakers, as well as current providers about the changes. In addition, the county is already experiencing enormous changes to the health care system with the critical rollout of the Affordable Care Act and the shifting of 875,000 children from California Healthy Families Program to Medi-Cal. While the state has delayed implementation until after the start of the new year, given the challenges of educating beneficiaries coupled with the changes occurring in the marketplace with the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, we believe further delay is warranted. Concerns about network adequacy and readiness frequently come up in our conversations with beneficiary advocates and providers. For example, not long after HealthNet was awarded a contract to cover the dually eligible beneficiaries in LA County, the company dropped a large provider from its network. Hospitals and physician organizations have also expressed deep concerns about contracting and the readiness of HealthNet and other healthcare systems. If the point of these demonstrations is to improve outcomes for beneficiaries, it is critical that we have strong networks. We urge CMS to carefully monitor how health plans are setting up provider networks to ensure they meet beneficiary needs and that providers in those networks understand what interventions are expected to improve health outcomes for the dual eligible population. We are pleased to see that CMS has required limited continuity of care for patients with pre-existing physician relationships. However, given the volume of patients that will be brought into the demonstration, we are concerned that system capacity is insufficient to ensure each beneficiary is given a needs assessment to manage care within the first year. We strongly urge CMS to ensure the state has a concrete plan in place for having beneficiary assessments performed and sufficient providers for this to occur. Additionally, it seems unlikely that plans will be able to do care management, a central tenet of these demonstrations, without actually assessing the needs of the enrolled population. Lastly, we continue to hear concerns about how CMS and the State of California have arrived at their savings rate calculations. We share the concerns of provider and patient advocacy groups that such overly ambitious and arbitrary savings targets will simply encourage plans to pare down care, rather than providing beneficiaries with the complete array of services that they will need. We are very concerned that, in the effort to create savings, patients could be denied access to quality care, including care at teaching hospitals in order to skirt the need to pay medical education and disproportionate share costs. We do not believe enough information has been made available about how the savings rates were calculated and whether patients and providers in LA County can reasonably be expected to improve the quality of care for dual eligible beneficiaries under those rates. We appreciate your attention to these issues and look forward to continuing the dialogue on this demonstration with your office and the State. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Henry A. Waxman Xavier Becerra Grace Napolitano Tony Cárdenas Lucille Roybal Allard Alan Lowenthal Gloria Negrete McLeod Janice Hahn Judy Chu Brad Sherman Maxine Waters Adam Schiff Karen Bass ###
05.21.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) announced that the Los Angeles County Police Chiefs Association (LACPCA) has endorsed H.R. 793, “The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013.” Congresswoman Sánchez introduced H.R. 793 in February to give local law enforcement agencies more options to help promote gun safety and fund comprehensive anti-violence campaigns. “I am honored that Los Angeles County Police Chiefs’ Association is endorsing The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Our local law police departments need the proper resources to carry out anti-violence campaigns, gun safety campaigns, and firearms buyback programs to get unwanted guns off the streets. My bill is a positive first step towards preventing gun violence and keeping our communities safe. I look forward to working with the LACPCA as we continue to gain support for this common sense gun violence prevention legislation.” “Local law enforcement agencies need all the tools available to prevent gun violence in our communities. Congresswoman Sánchez has put forward responsible gun violence prevention legislation that will help get weapons off our streets, preventing them from winding up in the hands of criminals. Local police departments are often operating under tight budget constraints, and the Congresswoman’s bill and the federal grant program it establishes would make it possible for local law enforcement to fully fund anti-violence campaigns,” said Long Beach Police Chief Jim McDonnell, LACPCA President. The LACPCA membership voted unanimously to endorse The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act. Background The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013 would establish a grant program within the Department of Justice in which grants would be eligible to state, tribal, and local units of government and law enforcement agencies to carry out anti-violence campaigns, gun safety campaigns, and firearms buyback programs. H.R. 793 is also supported by Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca and the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors. Click here for more information on The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013. ###
05.16.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) and 138 House Democrats sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell urging them to confirm Tom Perez being as the next Secretary of Labor. This morning, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee voted to approve Perez, sending his nomination to the full Senate for consideration. “Tom Perez is a dedicated public servant and will make an outstanding Secretary of Labor,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “He has a proven track record of building consensus and bringing labor and business together to build a first-class workforce. Senate Republicans should stop trying to smear his record at the Justice Department to make cheap political points and confirm him as Secretary of Labor. Tom Perez is the right pick to take on long-term unemployment, immigration and the minimum wage.” Click here to see to the letter to Senators Reid and McConnell. The full text of the letter is below. May 16, 2013 Senator Harry Reid 522 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Senator Mitch McConnell 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Senator Reid and Senator McConnell, As you consider the nomination of Thomas E. Perez to serve as Secretary of Labor, we respectfully urge you to vote in favor of his confirmation. Mr. Perez has a distinguished record of accomplishments and experience from his career in public service at the local, state and federal levels. Known by those who have worked with him for his consensus-building, collaborative approach to problem-solving, Mr. Perez would bring vigor to his new post that will serve the American economy well, by helping improve the skills of American workers to qualify for better-paying jobs and providing employers with a stronger workforce able to compete in the global market. Mr. Perez first served in the Department of Justice under President Ronald Reagan and became a career attorney during the George H.W. Bush Administration. As a federal prosecutor for the Civil Rights Division, he prosecuted and supervised some of the Department's most high profile civil rights cases, including a hate crimes case in Texas involving a group of white supremacists who went on a deadly, racially motivated crime spree. In his current role as Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, Mr. Perez has turned around his Division and increased the Civil Rights Division’s productivity. A Department of Justice Inspector General report released March 12 of this year confirmed that Mr. Perez has put reforms in place to restore merit-based hiring practices and that none of the decisions regarding enforcement of voting rights laws have been based on racial or partisan political considerations Under Mr. Perez’s leadership, the Civil Rights Division has increased prosecutions of human trafficking by 40 percent, convicted 74 percent more defendants on hate crimes charges, handled more new voting cases in 2012 than any year ever, won $50 million for service members whose homes were improperly foreclosed on while serving our nation in uniform overseas, and settled the three largest fair-lending cases in the history of the Fair Housing Act, recovering more money for victims in 2012 than in the previous 23 years combined. Mr. Perez achieved the Department’s largest-ever disability-based housing discrimination settlement, worth $10.5 million. Prior to his current role, Mr. Perez served as Maryland’s Secretary of Labor, Licensing and Regulation at a critical time during the economic crisis, mitigating many of its worst impacts. With the input of business and labor leaders, Mr. Perez led efforts to reform Maryland’s enforcement of state and federal wage protection laws. His collaborative approach has earned him praise from both business and labor leaders. Indeed, the Maryland Chamber of Commerce as well as labor unions have endorsed Mr. Perez’s nomination as Secretary of Labor. We believe that Mr. Perez’s record of achievement, especially his proven ability to successfully lead a state’s labor department, make him a strong candidate for Secretary of Labor. We therefore respectfully urge you to vote in favor of his confirmation in a timely fashion. Sincerely, Linda Sánchez (CA-38) Karen Bass (CA-37) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Tim Bishop (NY-01) Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU) Robert Brady (PA-01) Bruce Braley (IA-01) Corrine Brown (FL-05) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Lois Capps (CA-24) Michael E. Capuano (MA-07) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Donna Christensen (VI) Judy Chu (CA-27) David Cicilline (RI-01) Yvette Clarke (NY-09) Steve Cohen (TN-09) Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13) Joe Courtney (CT-02) Joe Crowley (NY-14) Henry Cuellar (TX-28) Elijah Cummings (MD-07) Danny K. Davis (IL-07) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter Defazio (OR-04) Diane DeGette (CO-01) John Delaney (MD-06) Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Ted Deutch (FL-21) John D. Dingell (MI-12) Mike Doyle (PA-14) Donna Edwards (MD-04) Keith Ellison (MN-05) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Eni Faleomavaega (AS) Chaka Fattah (PA-02) Bill Foster (IL-11) Pete P. Gallego (TX-23) John Garamendi (CA-03) Joe Garcia (FL-26) Alan Grayson (FL-09) Al Green (TX-09) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) Luis V. Gutierrez (IL-04) Janice Hahn (CA-44) Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Rush Holt (NJ-12) Michael M. Honda (CA-17) Steven Horsford (NV-04) Steny Hoyer (MD-05) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Steve Israel (NY-03) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-04) Bill Keating (MA-09) Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) Derek Kilmer (WA-06) Ron Kind (WI-03) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01) Rick Larsen (WA-02) John Larson (CT-01) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Dave Loebsack (IA-02) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03) Stephen Lynch (MA-08) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Doris Matsui (CA-06) Jim McDermott (WA-07) Jim McGovern (MA-02) Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Grace Meng (NY-06) Michael Michaud (ME-02) George Miller (CA-11) Gwen Moore (WI-04) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace Napolitano (CA-32) Richard E. Neal (MA-01) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06) Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) Ed Pastor (AZ-07) Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) Scott Peters (CA-52) Pedro R. Pierluisi (PR) Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Mark Pocan (WI-02) Jared Polis (CO-02) David E. Price (NC-04) Charles B. Rangel (NY-13) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Paul Ruiz, M.D. (CA-36) Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02) Bobby Rush (IL-01) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP) Loretta Sanchez (CA-46) John Sarbanes (MD-03) Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) Jose E. Serrano (NY-15) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Albio Sires (NJ-08) Louise M. Slaughter (NY-25) Jackie Speier (CA-12) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Mark Thompson (CA-05) John Tierney (MA-06) Dina Titus (NV-01) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Niki Tsongas (MA-03) Chris Van Hollen (MD-08) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Filemon Vela, Jr. (TX-34) Nydia M. Velazquez (NY-12) Melvin L. Watt (NC-12) Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) Peter Welch (VT-AL) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-03) ###
04.26.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) is announcing that she is co-sponsoring the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2013 (H.R. 1565), bipartisan legislation to help prevent guns from falling into the hands of criminals. H.R. 1565 would expand the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales. “As a lawmaker, and as a parent, my heart breaks when I see story after story about lives ripped apart because of gun violence,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This is common sense legislation that would help ensure that criminals and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have access to firearms. 90 percent of Americans are behind expanding background checks and it’s time Congress closes these dangerous loopholes.” Congressmen Peter King (R-NY) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) introduced the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, which is identical to the bipartisan agreement on background checks struck by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA). H.R. 1565 would require background checks for all firearms sales at gun shows, over the Internet, or through a newspaper advertisement. Background In February, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced “The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013” (H.R. 793), which would give state and local government and law enforcement agencies another tool to help promote gun safety and fund comprehensive anti-violence campaigns. Click here for more information on The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013. ###
04.26.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) is announcing that she is co-sponsoring the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2013 (H.R. 1565), bipartisan legislation to help prevent guns from falling into the hands of criminals. H.R. 1565 would expand the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales. “As a lawmaker, and as a parent, my heart breaks when I see story after story about lives ripped apart because of gun violence,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This is common sense legislation that would help ensure that criminals and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have access to firearms. 90 percent of Americans are behind expanding background checks and it’s time Congress closes these dangerous loopholes.” Congressmen Peter King (R-NY) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) introduced the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, which is identical to the bipartisan agreement on background checks struck by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA). H.R. 1565 would require background checks for all firearms sales at gun shows, over the Internet, or through a newspaper advertisement. Background In February, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced “The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013” (H.R. 793), which would give state and local government and law enforcement agencies another tool to help promote gun safety and fund comprehensive anti-violence campaigns. Click here for more information on The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013. ###
04.24.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38), a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Ranking Member of the Manufacturing Tax Reform Working Group, released the following statement after Republicans held a mark-up of H.R. 807, "The Full Faith and Credit Act." “When it comes to our economy, debt prioritization and planning for default amount to playing with fire. Actually advancing legislation that would enable the U.S. to become a deadbeat nation is even more dangerous. “This partisan bill should be called the ‘Pay China First Act.’ This misguided legislation removes the debt ceiling for China, and other private bond holders, and allows us to default on the promises we’ve made to our veterans, seniors, and our children. “I’m disappointed that House Republicans haven’t learned their lesson after the summer of 2011, when just threatening to default led to the first credit downgrade in our nation’s history. I hope that Republicans will stop pulling political stunts and join with House Democrats to find common sense solutions to our debt and deficit.” ###
04.17.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after a bipartisan group of Senators (“Gang of Eight”) unveiled their plan for immigration reform. “I congratulate this bipartisan group of Senators for taking this first step to fix our broken immigration system. There are 11 million aspiring citizens who want to come out of the shadows and be a part of the country they know and love, and this is a very positive step in that direction. “I am pleased that this legislation includes a pathway to citizenship for these 11 million people and that it allows family members who were deported because of status to reunite with their spouses, parents and children. I am also pleased that this legislation is a serious attempt to reduce the immigration backlog and that it recognizes DREAM Act eligible students need a faster path to citizenship in the only country they have ever known. “I look forward to reviewing the entire bill, and I hope that House Republicans will join us and work to make comprehensive immigration reform a reality.” Backgound In January, Congresswoman Sánchez joined other members of leadership from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) for a meeting at the White House to discuss comprehensive immigration reform with President Obama. During this meeting, the President told CHC leadership that passing comprehensive immigration reform is his top legislative priority. ###
04.10.2013	Bill to Level Playing Field for Domestic Producers Added to Manufacturing Agenda Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38), along with Rep. Billy Long (R-MO), has introduced the Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion (ENFORCE) Act (H.R. 1440). This bipartisan legislation will help U.S. Customs and Border Protection enforce trade rules and prevent illegal imports. The ENFORCE Act would establish new procedures for investigating claims against foreign manufacturers for evading anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders. Today, House Democratic leaders also announced that the ENFORCE Act will be included as part of the Democrats’ “Make It In America” plan to grow manufacturing jobs. “If we want to keep Americans working and our businesses strong, we have to ensure that Customs will aggressively enforce anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “For too long, domestic producers have been undermined by foreign competitors using fraudulent schemes to avoid paying the duties they owe. Evading these duties not only breaks the law, but it hurts U.S. businesses and kills jobs. It’s time we pass the ENFORCE Act and give our producers and American workers the level playing field they deserve.” Under the ENFORCE Act, domestic producers will be able to petition U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to investigate possible anti-dumping and countervailing duty evasions. H.R. 1440 puts in place timelines for CBP to make preliminary and final determinations about whether an importer is engaged in duty evasion. Anti-dumping duties are imposed when it is established that foreign goods are being sold (or “dumped”) in the U.S. at prices below the prices in the home market. Countervailing duties are imposed when foreign goods receive illegal subsidies which artificially hold down prices. The duties are meant to even out these illegal practices so that American and foreign goods are competing on a more level playing field regarding prices. Congresswoman Sánchez also introduced the ENFORCE Act in the 112th and 111th Congresses. H.R. 1440 currently has 35 cosponsors. ###
04.10.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today criticized House Republicans during a House Committee on Ways and Means hearing which explored the possibility of defaulting on America’s debt rather than raising the debt ceiling. Congresswoman Sánchez’ remarks are below. To see a video clip of the Congresswoman’s statement, click here. “I want to thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member. “Oddly, I feel like we've slipped into the movie ‘Groundhog Day.’ Here we are, having the same old discussion that we've had over the last two years, and we're just spinning our wheels. I would have thought that Congress would have learned its less regarding defaulting on our obligations after the summer of 2011, but apparently not. “I do say default because the president doesn't have the power to lift debt limit. That power is vested in the Congress. The Congress decides, and when the Congress decides that they don't want to increase the limit that is what will lead to a default. “I think that just threatening to not increase the debt limit has severe consequences that everybody just seems to ignore. The fact is that after 2011, our nation's credit was downgraded when there was threat of the limit not being increased. There was a drop in the S&P 500 of 220 points between July and August of 2011. There was a 2,000-point drop in the Dow during the same period. “Here we go again—spinning our wheels. “Instead of having hearings on things like job growth, which could perhaps bring in more revenue for our economy, or how we will protect seniors, we're discussing how to best become a deadbeat nation. It's just the same old political talking point. It's not a solution to our debt and our deficit. We're considering today the merits of default prioritization legislation. Those are legislative options that simply assume that the U.S. skips out on paying its bills. “We all know that the Treasury Department and the Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight have stated that there's not a legal option of prioritization. We all know that there is no fair or sensible way to pick and choose among the many bills that come due every single day. On top of all of this, even if it were legal to create that kind of prioritization—and the Treasury Department has assured us that they cannot—it's nearly impossible logistically. “The Treasury Department makes over 100 million payments a month -- a hundred million payments a month. Their computer systems are programmed to make those payments in the order in which the bills are received. Maybe most importantly, even if the debt prioritization were legally and logistically possible, a partial default -- even a partial default -- would be devastating to our economy. It's important to remind people that just the implication that the U.S. government will reach the debt ceiling and not be able to pay its bills sends shockwaves throughout our financial system. “It creates uncertainty in the bond markets, it tightens credit, and it hurts job growth. This hearing completely encapsulates the dysfunction of Congress. We're not here to talk about how to fix the debt limit. That's not what this hearing is about. We're here, instead, to talk about legislation that's impossible to implement and, quite frankly, a waste of our time and attention. “These do-nothing bills create long-term uncertainty at a time when businesses are begging for certainty. They're begging for us to get things settled in a way that allows them to plan. Our constituents are looking for that certainty. “So, I look forward to hearing what bills you don't want to pay first. Will it be Social Security checks to 56 million seniors and people with disabilities? Or will it be the salaries of more than 2 million American military personnel? “I have to say, quite frankly, I'm disappointed that we're not talking about job growth or other worthwhile areas that are worthy of our time. With that, I will yield back the balance of my time.” ###
03.27.2013	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) has introduced legislation (H. Res 138) which would give overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans by designating March 30, 2013 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” March 30 is intended to commemorate the day when the last United States combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. This year marks 40 years since U. S. Armed Forces completed the withdrawal of combat troops from Vietnam. “As a nation, we owe the thousands of Vietnam veterans the proper homecoming they earned after honorably serving our country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Too many troops returned home to hostility and harsh ridicule from the American public—never getting so much as a simple ‘thank you and welcome home.’ We are 40 years overdue in honoring these brave men and women. It is time we made this right and recognized these veterans for dedicating themselves to our country. ” Congresswoman Sánchez has introduced this resolution every Congress since she was elected in 2002. “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” has received broad bipartisan support by the House of Representatives after Congresswoman Sánchez introduced it in the 108th, 109th, 110th, 111th, and 112th Congresses. Congresswoman Sánchez work to honor Vietnam veterans began in 2003, following a meeting with constituent Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA, who has worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. “Among the proud people that call America their home, there is a small group that voluntarily rise and take an oath which promises to protect, honor and serve all who live within Her borders,” said José Ramos, founder of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day. “This small group is called veterans. They live and many times die, fulfilling that oath. Upon their return home, it then becomes our turn to fulfill our end of this oath. We must now protect, honor and serve those who served us.” ###
03.15.2013	Congresswoman Announces Inaugural “Fan Favorite” Contest Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) is pleased to announce the start of her annual Congressional Arts Competition for high school students, also known as “An Artistic Discovery.” Congresswoman Sánchez is also announcing her first ever “Fan Favorite” art contest, in which the public will be able to vote for their favorite piece from the Congressional Arts Competition. “I look forward to this competition every year because it gives me the opportunity to see how talented and creative our students are,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This competition is an excellent reminder of the importance of art in education. For a brighter world of expression, we owe it to our students to recognize and nurture their artistic gifts.” The theme for the art competition is “The Magic of a Moment.” Students are encouraged to express an idea about creating a magical moment or express how they savored a magical moment that unfolded on its own. A panel of local art experts will review all entries and select category winners. Artists may create a piece specifically for the competition or submit a previously created work. The overall winner and one adult from their family will be flown for free to Washington, DC for a reception and ceremony with overall winners from around the nation. The winning artwork will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. For the first time, the public will have the chance to vote online for their favorite piece of artwork from the Congressional Arts Competition. The artwork receiving the most Fan Favorite votes will be displayed in a city facility in the winner’s home city. Voting for the “Fan Favorite” will take place on Congresswoman Sánchez’ website from April 19 to May 3. Congresswoman Sánchez will host a Congressional Arts Competition reception in the district in May. Student artists who submitted an entry will have their art on display to be viewed and recognized by the public. Category winners and overall winner will be announced and recognized for their achievements at this reception. Submissions must be from the 38th Congressional District of California to participate. Students from other congressional districts are strongly encouraged to contact their individual Member of Congress for information on his or her art competition. To locate a Member of Congress, please visit www.house.gov. Students can visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov or contact their High School Art Department for more information. The deadline to submit artwork to Congresswoman Sánchez’ district office in Cerritos is Friday, April 12, 2013 by 5:00pm PT. ###
03.14.2013	Congresswoman introduces Safe Schools Improvement Act to help prevent bullying Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act, which would help ensure a safe learning environment at schools nationwide. This bi-partisan legislation would give schools more resources they need to prevent school bullying and reduce the rising drop-out rate. “We owe it to our children to protect them and make sure they have a safe and comfortable learning environment at school,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We are failing our students if they are afraid to come to school because they face daily threats and intimidation. Bullying can destroy a student’s self-esteem and wreck their academic progress. No child deserves to be bullied or harassed, and it’s time we made this violent and destructive behavior a relic of the past.” The Safe Schools Improvement Act would require schools and school districts across the country to institute a policy that bans bullying and harassment. This legislation would ensure that students are protected from harassment whether they are being targeted based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, or any other basis. Congresswoman Sánchez has introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act in each of the previous three sessions of Congress, and currently has 59 co-sponsors. The Safe Schools Improvement Act has garnered support more than 100 organizations, including the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network ; the Human Rights Campaign; the National Council of La Raza; and the Anti-Defamation League. “The Safe Schools Improvement Act is a bipartisan response to the unsettling fact that schools remain hostile and unsafe for our nation’s youth,” said Dr. Eliza Byard, Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network Executive Director. “No student should ever feel compelled to skip school or not be able to succeed in class as the result of unchecked bullying and harassment. We thank Congresswoman Sánchez for her continued efforts to provide federal leadership on a critical issue affecting millions of young people.” “Bullying remains an epidemic in our schools and occurs at alarming rates based on sexual orientation and gender identity,” said Chad Griffin, Human Rights Campaign President. “We thank Congresswoman Sanchez for her continued leadership in protecting our nation’s young people by once again introducing the Safe Schools Improvement Act.” “It’s essential that each child has a safe place to learn and views his or her school as a sanctuary,” said Janet Murguía, National Council of La Raza President and CEO. “Research shows that Latino students feel disproportionately targeted, particularly if they also identify as LGBT. Nearly three-quarters of Latino students say that they have experienced bullying due to their background. NCLR commends Representative Linda Sánchez for her longstanding commitment to ensure that we take the steps we can to stop bullying by setting baseline standards to monitor this problem in every school.” Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has been recognized as a leader in working to make schools safe for all students. In 2011, President Obama invited Congresswoman Sánchez to a White House conference on bullying prevention because of her leadership in Congress in advocating for anti-bullying legislation. ###
02.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after the House passed S. 47, the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) re-authorization. “I proudly voted to support the Violence Against Women Act, as drafted by the Senate. This strong, bipartisan bill provides all victims of domestic and sexual violence with the protection they deserve. America’s women deserve these protections, regardless of immigration status, heritage, or sexual orientation. “As someone who has seen the human face of domestic violence at women’s shelters in my district, I wish that strong protections for victims had gone into effect last year. Instead, House Republicans insisted on a bill that would have created more hurdles for victims and made it easier for their abusers to escape prosecution. I applaud the House for rejecting a similar piece of misguided legislation today, and I urge President Obama to sign the Violence Against Women Act into law as soon as possible.” Once signed into law by President Obama, S. 47 will protect all victims of domestic and sexual violence, including Native Americans, immigrants, and the LGBT community. Today, Congresswoman Sánchez voted against a House Republican substitute bill, which would have rolled back critical protections for America’s women. ###
02.21.2013	Monterey Park, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) today announced legislation she has introduced in Congress to prevent gun violence and assist law enforcement agencies with developing gun buyback programs. Congresswoman Sánchez unveiled The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013 (H.R. 793) during a press conference at Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Headquarters alongside Sheriff Lee Baca, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44), Los Angeles County Supervisor Mark Ridley-Thomas, and Montebello Police Chief Kevin McClure. “For far too long we have watched gun violence shatter the lives of thousands of families every year, and it is time to stand up and protect our children and our communities,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “It is time to give our law enforcement agencies all the necessary resources to prevent gun violence, and that starts by funding anti-violence campaigns, gun safety campaigns, and firearms buyback programs. Our families deserve to have safe streets and communities. The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act is a positive first step towards getting unwanted guns off the street and preventing gun violence from ripping apart another family.” The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013 would give state and local government and law enforcement agencies another tool to help promote gun safety and fund comprehensive anti-violence campaigns. H.R. 793 would establish a grant program within the Department of Justice in which grants would be eligible to state, tribal, and local units of government and law enforcement agencies to carry out anti-violence campaigns, gun safety campaigns, and firearms buyback programs. “My gun buyback program has been very successful in Los Angeles County. Getting one gun off the street may save a life and that is worth it,” said Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca. “I appreciate Congresswoman Linda Sánchez supporting this program and endeavoring to make our country safer from gun violence.” “Now is the time for us to act to pass common sense legislation that is necessary to protect our children and families from these repeated patterns of senseless gun violence that has plagued many of our neighborhoods from the streets of Compton and Chicago to the schools and shopping malls in Newtown and Aurora,” said Congresswoman Janice Hahn. “That is why I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation that seeks to reduce gun violence and assist local government and law enforcement agencies by funding and supporting gun buyback programs and other anti-violence initiatives.” “The tragedy in Newtown, Connecticut has made gun violence a hot topic in the national news. However, those of us living in the Los Angeles region know full well this is not a new crisis,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard. “Sadly, many in our communities know only too well the pain and suffering inflicted by guns in the hands of the wrong people. The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act will help to enhance and expand existing efforts that we know work in our communities here at home by providing funding for gun buybacks and anti-violence campaigns.” “This is responsible gun control legislation that not only takes weapons off the street, that could fall into the hands of criminals, but also provides much needed grant monies directly to law enforcement for the purposes of reducing gun violence in our communities,” said Montebello Police Chief Kevin McClure. Click here for more information on The Firearm Safety and Buyback Grant Act of 2013. ###
02.14.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) has been named Ranking Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means Manufacturing Tax Reform Working Group. Congresswoman Sánchez and Chair Jim Gerlach (R-PA) will lead this working group in reviewing current tax law regarding the manufacturing sector and report back their findings to the full House Committee on Ways and Means. “American manufacturing has seen a huge resurgence over the past 33 months, and we need to do all that we can as lawmakers to encourage more job creation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “With almost 500,000 new American jobs in manufacturing, we need a tax code that supports the manufacturing sector and helps get more hard working Americans back on the job. I am honored to lead this working group with Chairman Gerlach and I look forward to finding common sense tax reforms that create more American jobs in manufacturing.” In addition to this announcement by the House Committee on Ways and Means, Congresswoman Sánchez was yesterday named to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Financial Services, Manufacturing and Commerce. Background As part of her service on the powerful House Committee on Ways and Means, Congresswoman Sánchez also serves on the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, which has jurisdiction over federal tax policy. In the 113th Congress, the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures will be in charge of drafting a comprehensive overhaul of the tax code. Congresswoman Sánchez also serves on the Subcommittee on Oversight, which oversees all programs within the jurisdiction of the full Ways and Means Committee. This includes oversight of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Treasury Department. ###
02.07.2013	Washington, DC- In continuing her commitment to recognize the hardworking and under-appreciated school counselors throughout our country, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) introduced House Resolution 60 honoring February 4-8, 2013 as “National School Counseling Week.” “Counselors play a crucial role in the academic, social and personal development of our children,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “They do inspiring work to help students fully reach their potential. We should honor the outstanding work that counselors do to ensure that our children achieve better futures for themselves and their communities. Additionally, I am hopeful that we can pass future legislation that addresses the counselor shortage that our schools are currently experiencing.” The average counselor-to-student ratio in America’s schools is 471 to one, which is almost double the 250 to one ratio recommended by the American School Counselor Association and the National Association for College Admission Counseling. In California, the counselor-to-student ratio is a dismal 1,016 to one. “School counselors are integral to the school community ensuring that students feel safe, supported and come to school ready to learn,” said Richard Wong, Executive Director of the American School Counselor Association. “These professionals work with school staff and parents to make sure students are prepared for success after high school. We are grateful to Rep. Sánchez and the US House of Representatives for acknowledging their hard work and dedication and recognizing February 4-8, 2013 as National School Counseling Week.” House Resolution 60 currently has 16 co-sponsors. ###
02.04.2013	Cerritos, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today in honor of Black History Month: “Every February, we recognize and celebrate the contributions that African Americans have made to the rich history and cultural fabric of our great nation. As we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation and the upcoming 50th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s march on Washington, we should also recommit ourselves to upholding the inalienable principles of civil rights and equality. “Let us take the time to commemorate those who fought and struggled to keep the promise of opportunity and equality for everyone. I hope everyone will join me in honoring the extraordinary achievements and contributions that African Americans have made to our country.” ###
01.29.2013	Cerritos, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after President Obama announced his vision for comprehensive immigration reform during a speech in Las Vegas today: “I applaud President Obama for taking the case for comprehensive immigration reform directly to the American people today. Not only is our immigration system broken, but our immigration policy fails to build on our country’s great tradition of diversity, equality and fairness. It is hugely important that President Obama is making this important issue his top legislative priority. Now it’s time for Congress to act. “We can’t wait to find a way to bring more than 11 million undocumented people out of the shadows and on the path to earned legalization, and I am encouraged by recent bipartisan efforts in the House and the Senate to develop frameworks for reform. I believe we can truly achieve meaningful immigration reform if members of Congress work together. ” Backgound On Friday, Congresswoman Sánchez joined other members of leadership from the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) for a meeting at the White House to discuss comprehensive immigration reform with President Obama. During this meeting, the President told CHC leadership that passing comprehensive immigration reform is his top legislative priority. ###
01.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement after she joined Congressional Hispanic Caucus leaders at the White House today to discuss comprehensive immigration reform with President Obama: “Today’s meeting is a very positive step as we work towards achieving comprehensive immigration reform. I applaud President Obama for making immigration reform a top priority in his second term, and I am pleased that he is making the Congressional Hispanic Caucus an integral part in finding common sense solutions to our broken immigration system. “Our country was built on a great tradition of diversity that allows everyone the opportunity for success. We should allow those people, who work hard and abide by our laws, the opportunity to educate themselves and help our great nation prosper and grow. “I remain hopeful that my colleagues in Congress can do the right thing and work together to produce legislation that secures our borders, reunites broken families and humanely treats the more than 11 million individuals who want nothing more than achieve the American Dream. “We can no longer postpone action on this important issue. The time to act on comprehensive immigration reform is now. I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to make reform a reality.” ###
01.21.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama was sworn in for his second term: “Today, President Barack Obama put forward a renewed vision of hope that, as a nation, our highest aspirations can become realities if we work together. Watching President Obama take his second oath of office today was also a chance to reflect on the challenges our nation has seen the past four years and to recognize the progress we have made towards strengthening our economy and increasing our national security. “We have made significant progress the past four years, but there is much more work to be done to ensure that the promise of the American Dream is secure for generations to come. “The immediate challenges we face now are steep—getting more Americans back to work, fixing our broken immigration system that builds on our country’s great tradition of diversity, and passing sensible gun violence legislation to make our communities and schools safer. I believe that we can rise to meet our challenges—if we are united in common purpose as one nation and as one people. I look forward to joining with President Obama in getting to work to find the solutions the American people deserve.” ###
01.16.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) released the following statement today after President Obama announced a comprehensive set of initiatives to prevent gun violence: “I applaud President Obama for taking concrete steps to ensure that dangerous firearms never get into the hands of people who would commit unspeakable acts of violence. I support the President’s plan to strengthen background checks for all gun sales and to institute bans on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. These measures will keep our communities safe and military-style weapons off the streets. “I also commend President Obama for making safe schools a priority in his plan. I have long advocated that we reduce school bullying and that we place more counselors in schools that need them. I am pleased the President is making sure that both bullying prevention and hiring more school counselors are integral parts of his plan to protect our children. “After the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre, the American people have demanded action from Congress so that senseless tragedies like this never happen again. I am proud to announce that I will soon be introducing legislation that will provide local law enforcement agencies with the resources to reduce the number of guns on the street and help with the safe disposal of unwanted firearms. “I look forward to working with President Obama and the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force to find sensible solutions to reduce gun violence.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez has been a longtime advocate of legislation that helps prevent gun violence. In 2003, she introduced legislation to require gun sellers to enforce current background check laws and be held accountable if they sold weapons to any person who is addicted to drugs or suffers from mental illness. She has also worked tirelessly to make sure schools are safe for our children. In 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez re-introduced the Safe Schools Improvement Act (H.R. 1648) which would require schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. In 2011, she also re-introduced the Put Schools Counselors Where They’re Needed Act (H.R. 667), which would provide funding to schools for school-based counseling and referral services to target students at risk and provide them with the resources they need to succeed. To view the President's comprehensive plan, click here.
01.15.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38) has been selected to serve on two crucial Subcommittees as part of her service on the powerful House Committee on Ways and Means, the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures and the Subcommittee on Oversight. The Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures has jurisdiction over federal tax policy. In the 113th Congress, the Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures will be in charge of drafting a comprehensive overhaul of the tax code. The Subcommittee on Oversight oversees all programs within the jurisdiction of the full Ways and Means Committee, which includes oversight of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Treasury Department. “It is an honor to serve on both of these important Ways and Means Subcommittees,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Since coming to Congress, I have fought to make our tax code fair for hard working Americans. I look forward to bringing my constituents’ voices to the Select Revenue Measures Subcommittee as we begin the long overdue process of comprehensive tax reform. Additionally, I am anxious to get to work on the Oversight Subcommittee to ensure the Medicare program is functioning properly and that our current tax policy is administered appropriately.” Background In addition to serving on the House Committee on Ways and Means, Congresswoman Sánchez also serves as the Ranking Member on the House Ethics Committee. The House Committee on Ways and Means is the oldest standing Committee in Congress. Because of broad jurisdiction on critical issues—economic policy, international trade, welfare, Social Security, Medicare and health care policy—the Committee on Ways and Means is an indispensable part of the House Committee system. ###
12.12.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) was selected today to serve on the powerful and prestigious House Ways and Means Committee. This morning, the full Democratic Caucus voted to approve the Democratic member assignment recommendations made by the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee for the 113th Congress. The House Ways and Means Committee is the chief tax-writing committee in Congress and also plays a critical role in federal legislation on trade, Social Security, and Medicare. Congresswoman Sánchez previously served on the House Ways and Means Committee in the 111th Congress, making history in 2009 by becoming the first Latina to serve on the exclusive committee. “It is a privilege to be back on the influential House Ways and Means Committee,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Ways and Means Committee directly impacts the issues my constituents in California care about the most—a fair tax code, strengthened Social Security and Medicare benefits, and trade policies that keep good paying jobs in this country. I am proud to bring my constituents’ voices and their perspective to the committee as we prepare to address critical economic issues confronting our nation’s working families.” In addition to serving on the House Ways and Means Committee, Congresswoman Sánchez will also serve as the Ranking Member on the House Ethics Committee in the 113th Congress. Background The House Ways and Means is the oldest standing Committee in Congress. Because of broad jurisdiction on critical issues—economic policy, international trade, welfare, Social Security, Medicare and health care policy—the Ways and Means Committee is an indispensable part of the House Committee system. Eight Presidents and eight Vice Presidents have served on the House Ways and Means Committee. Twenty-one members of Ways and Means have gone on to become Speaker of the House of Representatives. ###
12.07.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 146,000 jobs in November to bring the unemployment rate down to 7.7%, which is a four year low. This report marks 33 consecutive months of private sector job growth. “This jobs report is a positive sign that our economy is continuing to make a steady and promising recovery. To build on this progress, Congress must reach an agreement to avoid sending our nation over the so-called ‘fiscal cliff.’ Failing to reach a resolution threatens our economic recovery and the economic security of working families. “I urge my Republican colleagues to join House Democrats in extending middle class tax cuts—legislation that has already passed the Senate. We must work together to reach a balanced, fair and responsible agreement that creates jobs, grows our economy and reduces the deficit.” ###
12.05.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) was named Ranking Member for the House Ethics Committee. Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announced Congresswoman Sánchez’ selection during a press conference today held to introduce the Ranking Members of House committees in the 113th Congress. Congresswoman Sánchez released the following statement regarding her selection: “I am honored to be returning as Ranking Member of the House Ethics Committee,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I want to thank my colleagues for entrusting me with this important position. The House Ethics Committee plays an integral role making sure Members and their staffs follow the House’s standards of conduct. I plan to continue working my hardest to ensure that the American people can have faith and confidence in their elected leaders.” “Our caucus looks like America – and so do our Ranking Members,” Leader Pelosi said. “With decades of experience, wisdom, and public service, these men and women will ensure that the voices of all Americans have a seat at the committee table, as we work together to create jobs, grow the economy, and strengthen the middle class.” The House Committee on Ethics provides advice to and responds to questions from Members of Congress and staff regarding the laws, rules, and standards that govern their official conduct. The 113th Congress will be Congresswoman Sanchez’ second term serving as Ranking Member of the House Ethics Committee. She was first selected to the position in January 2011. ###
12.05.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after an agreement was reached between the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) Local 63 Office Clerical Unit and management. The agreement will bring to an end the eight-day strike at the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach “I am pleased that labor and management were able to work together and reach an agreement so that the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach can now resume full operations,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I’m proud of my brothers and sisters of ILWU Local 63 Office Clerical Unit for taking a stand against outsourcing, and I’m glad they will be back at work today. I want to thank management for negotiating a new deal with clerical workers, who now have a contract after two years of waiting. I also want to thank the community for standing behind hard working families as they fought to protect good paying jobs.” Congresswoman Sánchez is a Co-Chair of the House Labor and Working Families Caucus, which she also co-founded. Congresswoman Sánchez is also an active and card-carrying member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 441. ###
11.30.2012	Cerritos, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement recognizing Pico Rivera Mayor Bob Archuleta, who was appointed a member of the Board of Visitors (BOV) to the United States Military Academy by President Barack Obama today. “Mayor Archuleta has dedicated his life to serving his community and our veterans,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Bob’s commitment to our country and his community is inspiring. His ability to make a positive impact at every stage of public service will make him an excellent advisor to the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy. I congratulate Mayor Archuleta on his appointment and commend President Obama for selecting a truly dedicated public servant.” The Board of Visitors oversees the United States Military Academy at West Point and meets quarterly to review its academic, physical and military programs. The BOV has oversight of West Point’s morale and discipline, curriculum, instructions, physical equipment, fiscal affairs and academic methods. The Board of Visitors consists of a panel of Senators, House Members, and presidential appointees. In March, Congresswoman Sánchez proudly wrote a letter to President Obama in support of Mayor Archuleta being appointed to the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy. Background on Bob Archuleta Bob Archuleta was elected to the Pico Rivera City Council in March 2007 and currently serves as Mayor. He is a former combat veteran and paratrooper with the 82nd Airborne Division. Since 1990, Archuleta has served as a Los Angeles County Commissioner of Military Veteran’s Affairs and currently holds the position of Commission Chairman. The U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs appointed Archuleta to serve on a special Advisory Committee on minority veterans affairs. Archuleta also served as chairman of the U.S. Small Business Administration Advisory Committee on Veterans Business Affairs. ###
11.29.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement regarding the developing strike by clerical workers of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) Local 63’s office at the Port of Los Angeles. “I am proud to stand with my brothers and sisters of ILWU Local 63 Office Clerical Unit as they stand up against outsourcing,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It’s critical that we look out for America’s workers and their families and do everything we can to keep good paying American jobs in this country. I urge the employers to negotiate with clerical workers a good contract that provides workers with fair wages, a safe workplace, and benefits for their families.” Congresswoman Sánchez is a Co-Chair of the House Labor and Working Families Caucus, which she also co-founded. Congresswoman Sánchez is also an active and card-carrying member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical (IBEW) Local 441. ###
11.28.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to announce their renewed commitment to work toward comprehensive immigration reform. During today's press conference, the CHC released a document outlining its principles of reform called “One Nation: Principles on Immigration Reform and Our Commitment to the American Dream.” “Our country was founded on the hard work of immigrants from around the world. It is time we get serious about adopting an immigration policy that builds on our country’s great tradition of diversity and reflects on our values of equality and fairness,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We must pass comprehensive immigration reform that fixes our immigration system, deals humanely with aspiring citizens in our country, and increases the security of our borders. As member of the House Judiciary Committee and Congressional Hispanic Caucus, I remain committed to working with my colleagues to advance legislation that will truly reform this country’s broken immigration system and give deserving people a chance to become equal members of society.” Congresswoman Sánchez was recently elected to serve as the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ Second Vice-Chair for the 113th Congress. For a copy of the CHC’s “One Nation: Principles on Immigration Reform and Our Commitment to the American Dream” click here. ###
11.15.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) was elected by her colleagues to serve as the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ (CHC) Second Vice-Chair. “It is an honor to have been selected by my colleagues to serve as the Congressional Hispanic Caucus’ Second Vice-Chair,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I look forward to working with the CHC to address the issues that matter most to Latinos- creating jobs, growing our economy, and achieving comprehensive immigration reform. It is also with great pleasure that I welcome the new members of the CHC. Together we will fight to ensure that Latinos have a strong voice in Congress.” “I am excited to work with the newly-elect CHC Chairman Rep. Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), First Vice Chair Rep. Ben Ray Luján (NM-3), and Congresswoman-elect Michelle Luján Grisham (NM-1), who will serve as Whip.” ###
11.14.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today entered a statement into the Congressional Record honoring the late Lakewood City Councilman and 9-term Mayor Larry Van Nostran for his 40+ years of public service to the people of Lakewood, California. “Larry loved Lakewood and worked his hardest to make Lakewood a great place to live and work. Lakewood is the vibrant community it is today because of the dedication of Larry Van Nostran,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Larry was everything a public servant should be, and I will miss working with him.” Below is a copy of Congresswoman Sánchez’s statement for the Congressional Record: STATEMENT FOR THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD HONORING COUNCIL MEMBER LARRY VAN NOSTRAN Rep. Linda T. Sánchez November 13, 2012 Mister Speaker, it is with great sorrow that I announce the passing of Larry Van Nostran, who served the city of Lakewood for 37 years. Larry was first elected to the Lakewood City Council in 1975. He is the longest serving council member in the city’s history, and was serving his tenth term as a council member when he passed away Friday, November 9th. During his 37 years on the council, he served as the Mayor of the city nine times. Among Larry’s most notable achievements was the founding of the Lakewood Youth Sports Hall of Fame in 1981 and its continued success for the past 30 years. The Hall of Fame has honored thousands of Lakewood youth during that time, and has helped promote a vigorous sports and recreational culture in the city. This strong tradition was nationally recognized by Sports Illustrated magazine, who named Lakewood “Sportstown USA” in 2004. Larry was instrumental in helping create a high quality of life in Lakewood’s neighborhoods and finding solutions to keep Lakewood’s crime rate low. Larry began his service in Lakewood city government as a member of the Traffic and Safety Commission, and was a longtime member of the Public Safety Committee as a member of city council. He firmly believed that there’s not a more important value than keeping a community safe. He was a strong supporter of the Lakewood Award of Valor event, where public safety personnel, volunteers and residents are honored annually for their dedication, hard work and courage. Larry was prominent in the development and expansion of senior services, which were scant before he was elected to the city council. Larry saw the initiation of Lakewood’s DASH senior transit system and exercise and fitness programs at the city’s two senior centers. He was also a champion of growing Lakewood’s business and commercial base, which included modernizing the second largest shopping center in Los Angeles County, Lakewood Center Mall. Larry was born in Seville, Ohio in 1933 and moved to Lakewood in 1958, just four years after the city was incorporated. He was active in Lakewood civic life for over 40 years, including membership in the Elks Club, Jaycees, Kiwanis Club, Lakewood Pan American Association, and Masonic Lodge & Scottish Rite. As you are aware Mister Speaker, many of our colleagues in city government have a fundamental impact on the lives of our constituents and they rarely get the recognition that they deserve. The city of Lakewood will miss Larry, and I stand with many in our community in sending my thoughts and prayers to his family. Thank you Mister Speaker, I ask for a moment of silence for Larry Van Nostran, a true public servant, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
10.25.2012	Cerritos, CA – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after the California Transportation Commission (CTC) reached a deal to fully fund the Interstate 5 Carpool Lane Project. Yesterday, CTC commissioners met in Sacramento to consider whether to eliminate approximately $72 million in funding for the 5 Freeway widening project which extends from the Orange County Line to the 605 Freeway in Los Angeles County. "I commend CTC commissioners on their decision to fully fund the I-5 Carpool Lane Project," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "La Mirada and the surrounding cities of Southeast Los Angeles County have needed this project to happen for almost twenty years to alleviate traffic congestion and to help grow the local economy. This section of the 5 Freeway is traveled by millions of Southern Californians every day, and it's a crucial corridor for commuters and for businesses. I applaud the CTC for recognizing the importance of this project." On Tuesday, Congresswoman Sánchez today sent a letter to CTC commissioners urging them to fully fund this critical infrastructure project. To see the full text of the letter click here. ###
10.24.2012	Congresswoman secured $500K for construction of state-of-the-art facility Whittier, CA – Yesterday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) got an up close look at Whittier's brand new Emergency Operations Center (EOC), a construction project that was made possible by federal funding Congresswoman Sánchez secured. Congresswoman Sánchez was on site at the Whittier Police Department to the see the EOC in action during the city's annual disaster preparedness training. "Thanks to high-tech improvements, the Whittier Police Department can be more responsive to the people of Whittier and its surrounding areas," said Congresswoman Sanchez. "Most importantly, the new Emergency Operations Center makes our community safer. Projects like this have an undeniable, positive impact on our community. I'm proud to have played a part in part in ensuring that our emergency responders have the proper tools to answer the community's call for help." Background In 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez secured $500,000 in Department of Homeland Security and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) funding for the City of Whittier to construct and upgrade its Emergency Operations Center. The FEMA funding allowed the City of Whittier to construct a new facility to house personnel, communications, and equipment to ensure continuity of operations in the event of a disaster, such as a wildfire or earthquake. ###
10.24.2012	Cerritos, CA – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is urging the California Transportation Commission (CTC) to reject eliminating $72 million in funding from the Interstate 5 Carpool Lane Project. In a meeting set for tomorrow in Sacramento, the CTC will consider slashing Corridor Mobility Improvement Account (CMIA) funding from the project which extends from the Orange County Line to the I-605 in Los Angeles County. "La Mirada and the surrounding cities of Southeast Los Angeles County have been working their hardest for almost twenty years to make this project a reality," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "We can't afford to jeopardize completing the I-5 Carpool Lane Project now. Millions of Southern Californians rely on this section of the I-5 every day for commuting and for commerce. For our local economy to thrive, it is imperative that we alleviate congestion in this important corridor." Congresswoman Sánchez today sent a letter to CTC commissioners urging them to fully fund this critical infrastructure project. The full text of the letter is below. October 23, 2012 Members of the California Transportation Commission 1120 N Street, Room 2221 (MS-52) Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Commissioners: I am writing to express my profound concern regarding the October 24 California Transportation Commission (CTC) meeting agenda. It has come to my attention that the CTC will be considering eliminating approximately $72 million in Corridor Mobility Improvement Account (CMIA) funding from the Interstate 5 Carpool Lane Project (Orange County Line to I-605) in Los Angeles County. For close to twenty years, Caltrans, the City of La Mirada, and neighboring cities of Southeast Los Angeles County have dedicated their valuable resources, time, and hard work towards one goal: breaking ground on this project. These cities have worked overtime to locate resources for this project as they try to meet difficult budget challenges of their own. By threatening to now take away CMIA funds from this project, the CTC threatens to paralyze our local economy and impede progress toward alleviating congestion for millions of Southern California commuters who travel this section of Interstate 5 every day. It is my understanding that the CTC's funding re-allocation is being proposed because the CTC utilized measures that yielded cost savings in bid amounts from three of the five project segments. However, I urge that any projected savings remain part of the overall Interstate 5 Corridor Lane Project in Los Angeles County. Just as in any large infrastructure project, the remaining two segments will contain inevitable change-orders and other unforeseeable cost variations. I fully support the CTC's efforts to be fiscally responsible and efficient with the taxpayers' money, but any attempts to shortchange the communities of Southeast Los Angeles County is totally unacceptable. We must not jeopardize the completion of this project. Please let me know if I can be helpful to ensure that this project advances. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress ###
10.10.2012	Washington, DC –After recent news reports that Head Start schools in Lynwood and Paramount have failed to open their doors a month into the school year, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today called on the Department of Health and Human Services and the Office of Head Start to provide answers as to why these schools that provide vital early childhood development and education remain closed. "It's completely unacceptable that we are a month into the school year and hundreds of children can't go to preschool," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "Parents can't afford to miss any more work while these schools stay closed. Most importantly, our children can't afford to miss out on what Head Start provides—the tools to start kindergarten healthy and ready to learn. Our children deserve the opportunity of a lifetime of learning, but they need to be in school to start the journey." The full text of the letter is below. October 10, 2012 Yvette Sanchez Fuentes Director Office of Head Start, Administration of Children and Families Department of Health and Human Services 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW Washington, DC 20447 Dear Director Fuentes: I am writing to express my concern over recent reports that Head Start facilities in south Los Angeles County, namely Lynwood and Paramount, have not yet opened their doors for the school year. It has come to my attention that since the Head Start grant held by interim grantee, Community Development Institute (CDI) was split among three organizations-- Children's Institute, Inc. for Early Head Start, Crystal Stairs, and Volunteers of America for Head Start (VOA)--there have been major issues. Specifically, there has been a confluence of delays and disorganization that is negatively impacting the education of our children. According to parents, there has been massive confusion about the transition. For example, one particular VOA facility was scheduled to have a parent orientation on August 22nd. However, when parents arrived that day, the staff was nowhere to be found. Instead, parents were met with locked doors and flyers stating that the orientation was cancelled "until further notice." There was no name or contact information for additional details. No one was present to answer questions. Parents had no way to find out when the center will open or whether orientation will take place at all. According to recent reports, VOA facilities still have not opened their doors to students. This is totally unacceptable. Head Start programs have profound and deep roots in our community. I am extremely concerned about the health of these programs. The process of awarding these grants to permanent grantee agencies is intended to preserve the continuity of care and high quality services. I am calling on your office to ensure that the transfer is seamless and virtually invisible to children and their families. Also, I am requesting that your office immediately provide the following information: • Are all sites administered by VOA, Crystal Stairs, and Children's Institute, Inc opened and operational? • If not, why did the Office of Head Start award grants to organizations without assurances that these organizations could provide the appropriate services? • What is currently being done to resolve the situation? • How is the Office of Head Start or the grantees communicating to parents and the local community to alleviate concerns? Thank you for your urgent attention to this matter. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress CC: Ms. Jan Len, Regional Program Manager for Region 9 (San Francisco), Office of Head Start, Administration of Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services Mr. Bob Pratt, President & CEO, Volunteers of America ###
10.05.2012	Washington, DC— Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded President Obama for signing the “Safe Doses Act” into law. Congresswoman Sánchez helped introduce this bipartisan legislation, which protects patients from using stolen or damaged medication and raises penalties for pharmaceutical theft. “The American people deserve to know the medications they take are safe and authentic,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Stolen and mishandled prescription drugs pose a grave threat to the public’s safety if they are resold back into the market. The Safe Doses Act gives our law enforcement officers the tools they need to go after criminals who steal medical products, as well as the criminals who knowingly sell these products back into the medical supply chain. We owe it to the American people to hold these criminals accountable for putting the public health at risk.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez is an original co-sponsor of the “Safe Doses Act.” This is the second Sánchez-sponsored bill aimed at protecting the prescription medication supply chain to be signed into law this year. This July, President Obama signed “The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act” (S. 3187) into law. Included in S. 3187 are all of the provisions from the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3668) introduced by Congresswoman Sánchez and Congressman Pat Meehan (R-PA), which cracks down on counterfeit drug trafficking. After passing the House in June, H.R. 3668 was incorporated in “The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act.” ###
10.05.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 114,000 jobs in September, dropping the unemployment rate to 7.8 percent. This report marks 31 consecutive months of private sector job growth. “With the unemployment rate at a four-year low, today’s jobs report is an indication that our economy is moving in the right direction. However, this jobs report is also a reminder that more must be done to get Americans back to work. “Hardworking American families deserve to have a Congress that’s working to create jobs, grow the economy, and strengthen the middle class. Right now, House Republicans have scheduled a month-long recess that prevents us from working on what should be our top priority, which is getting Americans back to work.” “I continue to be focused on creating jobs and supporting working families. I urge the House Majority to join House Democrats and get back to work to keep our country moving forward.” ###
10.03.2012	Cerritos, CA – In continuing her work to recognize local veterans for their service, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) has named United States Navy veteran and Lakewood resident Alfonso Garcia as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for September 2012. Alfonso Garcia is a World War II veteran and served in the U.S. Navy from 1945 to 1946. Mr. Garcia served as a Seaman First Class aboard the U.S.S. Barnstable, taking part in missions in the Asia-Pacific theatre. Mr. Garcia participated in the Philippines Liberation campaign and saw action after Okinawa was occupied by Allied Forces. He was honorably discharged in 1946 “We owe Alfonso Garcia a debt of gratitude for his heroism in World War II,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Philippines was liberated from Axis control because of the courage of troops like Seaman Garcia. It is my hope that Mr. Garcia’s bravery and dedication to our country serve as an inspiration to the next generation of Americans.” At a ceremony at Mr. Garcia’s home, Congresswoman Sánchez awarded Garcia the following medals and decorations for his service and bravery: Philippine Liberation Medal, Philippine Republic Presidential Unit Citation Badge, World War II Victory Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal, Navy Occupation Service Medal with Asia Clasp, Navy Discharge Button, Honorable Service Lapel Pin (Ruptured Duck), and the Amphibious Force Breast Insignia. To see a picture of Mr. Garcia receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact (562) 860-5050. ###
10.01.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Commerce has awarded the City of South Gate an Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant totaling $2,503,731. This EDA grant will go towards funding the improvements to the intersection of Firestone Boulevard at Atlantic Avenue in South Gate. The EDA estimates that 245 jobs will be created by this funding. “This project is a perfect example of how investing in our infrastructure can help our communities thrive in the long-term,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Not only will this funding create 245 new jobs, but these improvements to this intersection will help improve the flow of commerce for our local businesses. New businesses can open and hire more employees. More customers will soon have better access to businesses in this area. This infrastructure investment is a down payment for a vibrant South Gate economy.” The Construction of Infrastructure Improvement grant awarded to South Gate by the EDA will help improve industrial access and open new areas for manufacturing in the area. The EDA is an agency within the Commerce Department that provides grants to communities looking to create jobs and stimulate industrial and commercial growth. ###
09.27.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is announcing that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded the South Gate Police Department a $500,000 Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program grant. This COPS grant—which Congresswoman Sánchez strongly supported—will allow the South Gate PD to hire new law enforcement officers and increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. “We have to do everything we can to make our communities safe and this grant funding will help the City of South Gate and its police department take huge steps in crime prevention,” said Congresswoman Sanchez. “At a time when our communities are dealing with stretched budgets, this COPS grant will help South Gate put more police officers on the street and expand their community policing programs. I was proud to support this grant which will help South Gate thrive.” The COPS Hiring Program (CHP) is one of several Justice Department programs aimed at supporting local law enforcement agencies by providing funding for additional officers. CHP is designed to increase the capacities of law enforcement agencies by implementing community policing strategies that strengthen partnerships for safer communities and enhance law enforcement’s ability to prevent, solve and control crime. The COPS Hiring Program grant requires that all new officers hired under the grant must be military veterans that have served at least 180 days of active military service. ###
09.25.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is announcing the introduction of the “Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act of 2012” (H.R. 6476) which would provide more cost-effective, skilled care options for seniors, people with disabilities, and families in the Medicare program. H.R. 6476 would allow patients who qualify for home health services or nursing home care under the Medicare program to choose the option of adult day care services instead. By paying adult day care providers 98% of the home health rate, the “Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act of 2012” could also yield savings to Medicare. “We owe it our seniors to provide them with quality health care, and they deserve to have the full range of care choices,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Adult day care is an important option for seniors who need rehabilitative care or help with daily life tasks, but don’t need around-the-clock care. This legislation provides a cost-effective Medicare choice by paying adult day care providers 98% of the home health rate. This bill also provides crucial relief to family caregivers, who often struggle to balance work and caring for their loved ones fulltime.” In addition to increasing choices for seniors and people with disabilities, the “Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act of 2012” bill would provide a vital service to family caregivers. While taking care of their loved ones, these caregivers lose an average of $659,139 in wages, pension benefits, and Social Security benefits over a lifetime, according to the Family Caregiver Alliance. By providing this adult care choice to Medicare beneficiaries, H.R. 6476 helps protect a family’s economic well-being, without adding to the cost of Medicare. Congresswoman Sánchez also introduced Medicare Adult Day Care legislation in the 111th Congress.
09.21.2012	Washington, DC – As a national leader in advancing anti-bullying legislation, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released a video in support of the “It Gets Better Project.” The “It Gets Better Project,” is an online campaign that seeks to prevent bullying and teen suicide and provide support to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) youth. “As a mother, my heart aches when I hear stories about young people being bullied so severely they turn to suicide,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “LGBT youth should always know that they’ve done nothing to deserve any threats and harassment they might be facing. No one deserves to be bullied. Bullying is destructive behavior that leaves victims with deep emotional scars. I look forward to the day when all schools are safe for everyone.” To see Congresswoman Sánchez’ “It Gets Better” video, click here. Background Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leader and advocate of anti-bullying legislation in Congress. Last year, she re-introduced the “Safe Schools Improvement Act,” which would require schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. This legislation would ensure that schools protect students, whether they are being targeted based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, or any other basis. Earlier this year, President Obama announced his support of the Safe Schools Improvement Act. ###
09.17.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today after President Obama announced his administration will launch an enforcement action against China for illegally subsidizing exports in their auto and auto-parts sectors: “I applaud President Obama for addressing China’s unfair auto subsidies that hurt U.S. auto-manufacturers and make it harder for them to compete with Chinese products on a global scale,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “American manufacturers deserve a level-playing field and we must ensure they are not undermined by trade practices that are currently prohibited by the World Trade Organization (WTO).” “Creating a strong manufacturing sector is crucial to our economic recovery. That is why I’m fighting to enact the ENFORCE Act (H.R. 3057), which would establish new procedures for investigating claims against foreign manufacturers that evade anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders. “China must be held accountable. Today’s actions are a necessary step in protecting and promoting U.S. manufacturing. They send a clear message that we will not allow unfair trade practices to undermine U.S. competitiveness. I look forward to working with President Obama on this important issue.” To learn more about Congresswoman Sánchez’ ENFORCE Act, click here.
09.11.2012	Cerritos, CA – In continuing to recognize veterans for their service, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) has named Marine veteran and Whittier resident Abraham Macedonio as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for August 2012. Abraham Macedonio served in the United States Marines Corps from 1986 to 1990. He served as Corporal in the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marine Regiment and was deployed overseas to Panama, Burma, Japan, Australia, and the Philippines. Following his military service, Mr. Macedonio has been active in helping local veterans through the VA Long Beach Medical Center. In particular, Mr. Macedonio has provided crucial support to the Partners In Effective Recovery (PIER) program, which offers services and support like hot meals, showers, and clothing for mentally ill and homeless veterans. Through this program, Mr. Macedonio helps veterans navigate the VA system to access housing and community resources. “It is an honor to recognize Abraham Macedonio for his service to our country and veterans in our community,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The selfless work he’s done to help mentally ill and homeless veterans has been remarkable. We owe Mr. Macedonio a debt of gratitude for his dedication to helping our veterans get the help and support they deserve.” In the community, Mr. Macedonio is actively involved with the American Legion Post 266 and the VFW Post 3726 in South Whittier. Mr. Macedonio recently participated in the christening and launching of the USNS Cesar Chavez on May 5, 2012 in San Diego. To see a picture of Mr. Macedonio receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact (562) 860-5050. ###
08.14.2012	Congresswoman Hosts 10th Annual Event Cerritos, CA – Today, more than 1,000 local seniors attended Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ 10th Annual Senior Fair at the Cerritos Center for Performing Arts to get free health screenings, receive information and legal advice, and consult with representatives from federal agencies. Today’s turnout is the highest number of seniors to ever participate in Congresswoman Sánchez Annual Senior Fair. “I look forward to this event because it’s a chance to provide seniors with the services and information they need, and every year, we hear incredible success stories,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “A few years ago, a constituent took a free prostate screening at our senior event and was shocked to find out that he had prostate cancer. Fortunately, the screening detected the cancer early and he was able to get treatment and recover successfully.” Over 52 vendors were on site at this year’s Senior Fair, including some providing free screenings for bone density, blood pressure, sun damage, and glucose levels. Other vendors provided information to seniors regarding financial planning, reverse mortgages, elder rights, housing rights, and caregiver assistance. Representatives from the IRS and Social Security Administration answered individual questions and the Center for Healthcare Rights gave information regarding Medicare and prescription drugs. “There has been a lot of talk from House Republicans lately about ending Medicare and Social Security as we know it,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I want to make sure seniors know the facts. Turning Medicare into a voucher system would increase costs for seniors and end Medicare’s promise to secure health coverage for those who contributed through a lifetime of hard work.” Today, Congresswoman Sánchez also spoke about a bill she’s planning to re-introduce that would allow seniors who are eligible to receive home health care services from Medicare to choose adult day care services instead. The “Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act” would provide a new option without adding to the cost of Medicare. ###
07.31.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded the House of Representatives for passing the “Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012” (H.R. 1627) which includes provisions from a bill she championed that would make home mortgages more affordable for veterans. The legislation now goes to President Obama for his signature. “I am glad that Congress has passed legislation that will benefit the brave men and women who have defended our nation. We must keep our promise to take care of our veterans, and we owe it to them to make mortgages more affordable,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It’s crucial that veterans stay in their homes and achieve the American Dream. This mortgage program is especially critical in California where so many veterans reside, which is why I fought so hard for its extension.” Background In November 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced legislation which would extend the Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARMs) and Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgages. VA-backed ARMs and hybrid ARMs differ from conventional mortgages in that, if interest rates drop, veterans can save thousands of dollars in mortgage payments. Congresswoman Sánchez, who serves on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, drafted mortgage program extension legislation after holding several meetings with her Veterans Advisory Council. Formed in August 2010, her Veterans Advisory Council is comprised of distinguished veterans from the 39th Congressional District who give Congresswoman Sánchez feedback on veterans’ issues. ###
07.31.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) continued her commitment to listening and addressing the concerns of her constituents by holding a telephone town hall meeting this evening with more than 8,800 constituents. “Staying in touch with constituents is the most important part of my job,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “With huge budget cuts being proposed by Congress, people want to know how their day-to-day lives will be affected. They want to know if they could lose their Social Security benefits or whether they’ll have to pay more for Medicare coverage. Having the chance to hear from constituents and their serious concerns strengthens my resolve to fight the reckless cuts Republicans are proposing.” Residents from Cerritos, Artesia, Hawaiian Gardens, Lakewood, Whittier, South Gate, La Mirada, Long Beach, and Paramount participated in the telephone town hall and had the opportunity to ask Congresswoman Sánchez questions about numerous topics, including veterans benefits, Medicare, Social Security, health care, jobs, and the economy. Congresswoman Sánchez answered 11 constituent questions during the hour-long call. 31 constituents who participated in the telephone town hall left voicemail questions and will receive written responses from Congresswoman Sánchez. ###
07.25.2012	Washington, DC— Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded President Obama for signing “The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act” into law. Included in this critical legislation are all of the provisions from the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” introduced by Congresswoman Sánchez and Congressman Pat Meehan (R-PA), which will crack down on counterfeit drug trafficking. “The American people should never have to worry whether the medications they take are safe, and I commend President Obama for signing this important legislation into law,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am proud the legislation Congressman Meehan and I introduced to increase penalties for trafficking counterfeit drugs became part of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act. We have to do everything we can to protect seniors, children, and everyone who is vulnerable to counterfeit drugs. As a parent, I want peace of mind that the medications my family takes are safe and authentic.” Background In November 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez and Congressman Meehan introduced “The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011,” (H.R. 3668) which would increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. In June 2012, the House of Representatives unanimously passed The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act. After House passage, H.R. 3668 was incorporated in “The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act” (S. 3187), which passed the Senate on June 26, 2012. President Obama then signed S. 3187 into law in July. Reports show that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities worldwide each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. Click here to see a clip of Congresswoman Sánchez speaking before the House Judiciary Committee about the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act.” ###
07.24.2012	Washington, DC –After recent news reports that the California Department of Parks and Recreation has discovered a $54 million budget surplus, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today called on the Department to fully reimburse the City of Whittier the money the City paid to keep the Pio Pico State Historic Park (PPSHP) open. “It’s completely unacceptable to mismanage taxpayer money, and I am extremely concerned that $54 million can somehow be misplaced,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The City of Whittier and the Friends of Pio Pico worked so hard to keep Pio Pico State Historic Park open for all Californians to enjoy. In light of these revelations of a budget surplus, the Department of Parks and Recreation should pay back the City of Whittier all the money the City has used to keep this historical treasure open.” Background Pio Pico State Historic Park was one of 70 state parks the Department of Parks and Recreation had scheduled to close because of budget shortfalls. In June, the City of Whittier and the Friends of Pio Pico announced they raised $80,000 to keep PPSHP open through a partnership donation agreement with the Department of Parks and Recreation. The full text of the letter is below. July 23, 2012 Janelle Beland, Interim Director State of California Department of Parks and Recreation 1416 9th Street Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Interim Director Beland: I am writing to you regarding troubling news reports that the Department of Parks and Recreation misplaced $54 million of taxpayer money. Obviously, the mismanagement of public funds is completely unacceptable. As you know, the Department of Parks and Recreation has made massive cuts to state parks in an effort to alleviate California’s budget shortfalls. One of the many state parks slated for closure was Pio Pico State Historic Park (PPSHP) in Whittier. PPSHP is one of California’s most valuable historic sites. The park features California’s few remaining 19th century structures made from sun-dried mud blocks. The park offers a unique glimpse into what early Californians experienced as they adapted to the American frontier after admission into the Union in 1849. Due to the significant cultural loss to our community, the City of Wittier and the Friends of Pio Pico rallied to fill the funding gap and keep PPSHP open. I am extremely proud our community stepped up to keep this treasured State Historic Park open. However, based upon the recently discovered budget surplus, it is clear that there was no need for the City to use their general funds for this purpose. I am requesting that the Department of Parks and Recreation immediately fully fund PPSHP and reimburse any expenses incurred by the City of Whittier. I am extremely disappointed that, at a time when many cities throughout the state are struggling to provide vital services, the Department of Parks and Recreation could be so irresponsible with taxpayer dollars. I appreciate your consideration of my request and I look forward to your reply. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress CC: Mayor Owen Newcomer, City of Whittier Senator Ron Calderon, Senate District 30 Assembly Member Tony Mendoza, Assembly District 56 Carolyn Schoff, President, Friends of Pio Pico, Inc. ###
07.19.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39), Congressman Rush Holt (NJ-12) and 76 Democrats sent a letter to House and Senate leaders demanding that working families not bear the unjust burden of spending cuts called for in the Budget Control Act. Currently, most of the debate in Washington has been centered on defense sequestration. However, a projected 8% overall cut to domestic spending in 2013 would have a disastrous effect on the current economic recovery. “Reckless cuts to vital domestic programs could jeopardize the current economic recovery,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It is crucial we take a balanced approach to reduce our deficit. Protecting our national security should always be the priority of this Congress. However, we cannot afford to cut investments in programs that are critical to our country’s long-term economic growth. This Congress can’t turn its back on hard working Americans while our economic recovery hangs in the balance.” “Kicking kids out of Head Start classrooms will not help our economy grow, and we won’t create more jobs by sending NIH researchers home,” said Congressman Holt. “We need to increase our investments in these important domestic programs not slash them across the board.” The full text of the letter is below. July 19, 2012 Speaker John A. Boehner Office of the Speaker H-232 US Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi Office of the Democratic Leader H-204, US Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Majority Leader Harry Reid 522 Hart Senate Office Bldg Washington, DC 20510 Minority Leader Mitch McConnell 317 Russell Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Speaker Boehner, Minority Leader Pelosi, Majority Leader Reid, and Minority Leader McConnell: We are writing to express our concern over the automatic reductions in spending due to take effect in January 2013 because of the deficit-reduction goal set in the 2011 Budget Control Act. We are very worried about how draconian cuts to important domestic programs will affect our current economic recovery. As you know, the Budget Control Act calls for a minimum of $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction in both national security and domestic federal spending. We have read reports that our colleagues in the Senate have been working on solutions to protect the defense budget from the sequester. Clearly, our first priority is protecting our national security and ensuring that our warfighters have everything they need to protect our freedoms. However, we are concerned that the “unofficial” Budget Control Act discussions in the Senate are ignoring the very real economic consequences of domestic spending reductions. It is distressing that so much attention is being paid to protecting the defense industry at the expense of investing in the American people. We cannot support any budget compromise that only deals with defense sequestration. We encourage you to work in a bi-partisan manner to ensure we responsibly reduce the deficit in a way that will protect our national security and also invest in America’s future. Currently, we do not know which specific domestic programs will see these massive cuts. However, the Congressional Budget Office expects an 8% overall cut to domestic spending in 2013. This is totally unacceptable and would have disastrous effects on our still fragile economic recovery. At a time when the American people are asking Congress, “Where are the jobs”, we cannot afford to cut investments in programs that are critical to our country’s long-term economic growth. According to Office of Management & Budget (OMB) Director Jeffrey Zients, an 8% cut would be devastating to the economy. As many as 700,000 children and mothers could lose nutrition assistance. An additional 100,000 kids would be kicked out of Head Start, one of our most successful early education programs. More than 25,000 teachers and school aides would lose their jobs as a direct result of these cuts. These cuts would also seriously damage our nation’s investment into research and development (R&D). As you know, R&D is critical to economic growth. For every job we create in research and development, four additional jobs are created in other industries. R&D drives our technology, pharmaceutical, and health care economies. OMB says these cuts would mean that the National Institutes of Health would issue about 700 fewer grants to medical researchers and the National Science Foundation would be forced to eliminate up to 1,500 grants. The effect of these austerity measures would exponentially devastate our economy when we need more investment in education, innovation, and infrastructure. Our country needs long term solutions to our national debt. However, we cannot keep slashing domestic spending at a time when appropriated spending is already at its lowest level as a share of the economy since the Eisenhower administration. We look forward to working with you to ensure that we prioritize working families and growing American jobs while Congress begins to address the automatic deficit reduction trigger in the Budget Control Act. Sincerely, Linda Sánchez (CA-39) Rush Holt (NJ-12) Gary Ackerman (NY-5) Joe Baca (CA-43) Karen Bass (CA-33) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (GU-At Large) Robert Brady (PA-1) Michael Capuano (MA-9) Russ Carnahan (MO-3) Judy Chu (CA-32) David Cicilline (RI-1) Yvette Clarke (NY-11) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Gerry Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-14) Mark Critz (PA-12) Joseph Crowley (NY-7) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Sam Farr (CA-17) Bob Filner (CA-51) Barney Frank (MA-4) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Charles Gonzalez (TX-20) Gene Green (TX-29) Raúl Grijalva (AZ-7) Alcee Hastings (FL-8) Brian Higgins (NY-27) Maurice Hinchey (NY-22) Rubén Hinojosa (TX-15) Mike Honda (CA-15) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hank Johnson (GA-4) William Keating (MA-10) Jim Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Barbara Lee (CA-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) Ben Ray Luján (NM-3) Ed Markey (MA-7) Doris Matsui (CA-5) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Gregory Meeks (NY-6) George Miller (CA-7) James Moran (VA-8) Jerrold Nadler (NY-8) Grace Napolitano (CA-38) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-At Large) John Olver (MA-1) Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-8) Gary Peters (MI-9) Pedro Pierluisi (PR-At Large) David Price (NC-4) Charles Rangel (NY-15) Laura Richardson (CA-37) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal Allard (CA-34) Bobby Rush (IL-1) Loretta Sanchez (CA-47) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-7) David Scott (GA-13) Robert "Bobby" Scott (VA-3) José Serrano (NY-16) Jackie Speier (CA-12) John Tierney (MA-6) Paul Tonko (NY-21) Edolphus Towns (NY-10) Henry Waxman (CA-30) Peter Welch (VT-At Large) Frederica Wilson (FL-5) Lynn Woolsey (CA-6) John Yarmuth (KY-3) ###
07.19.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is awarding a total of $1.95 million to two local non-profit organizations to help more than 700 at-risk veterans and their families. The VA is awarding $1 million to the Salvation Army of California and $950,000 to People Assisting the Homeless (PATH) through a federal program to prevent and end veteran homelessness. Both organizations serve the 39th Congressional District. “Ensuring that our brave men and women have all the benefits and resources they deserve should be a priority for all of us. I congratulate the Salvation Army and PATH, and I applaud them for the work they do with homeless veterans,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Our veterans kept their promise to defend our freedom. We should do all that we can to prevent veterans from becoming homeless.” The awards to the Salvation Army and PATH are part of the VA’s Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) program, which is aimed at improving housing stability for veterans and their families. For more information on the program, click here. Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. In November 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced legislation which would extend the Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARMs) and Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgages. VA-backed ARMs and hybrid ARMs differ from conventional mortgages in that, if interest rates drop, veterans can save thousands of dollars in mortgage payments. ###
07.12.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement after the Department of the Veterans Affairs announced new steps to improve training for VA employees who handle veterans’ disability claims: “I applaud the Department of Veterans Affairs for taking action to improve the processing of claims for our veterans. As a recent government report detailed, the VA Regional Office in Los Angeles must improve how it processes veterans’ claims. Implementing this new training model for VA employees is a good first step toward providing more efficient and comprehensive care to veterans. The men and women of our military have made tremendous sacrifices for our country. It is our duty to make sure they receive the best care and services here at home.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves on the House Veteran’s Affairs Committee. In May, Congresswoman Sánchez, criticized the Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Regional Office in Los Angeles after the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) reported unacceptable hardships local veterans experience in processing their benefits claims. The goal of the new VA training model program “Challenge” is faster, more accurate claim processing. A VA report says that employees trained under this new model, process 150% more claims, with 30% more accuracy than under the previous training model. For more on the Department of Veterans Affairs’ full “Challenge” program, click here. ###
07.11.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and House Democrats at a press conference to unveil the newest bills added to Democrats’ “Make It In America” plan. Included in the “Make It In America” plan is the bipartisan Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion (ENFORCE) Act of 2011 (H.R. 3057)—legislation sponsored by Congresswoman Sánchez. The ENFORCE Act will help U.S. Customs and Border Protection enforce trade rules and prevent illegal imports. Congresswoman Sánchez’ remarks are below. “‘Make it in America’ is about creating good paying jobs in this country. Getting people back to work should be the number one priority of this Congress. The past 28 months have shown us that we should be doing all we can to support the manufacturing sector: half-a-million new jobs says it all. For our manufacturing sector to stay competitive globally, we have to make sure that America’s producers have a level playing field. The ENFORCE Act is critical to improving our ability to enforce trade laws. I’m proud it’s included in the ‘Make It In America’ agenda. “This bipartisan bill is about protecting American businesses and the workers that keep those businesses thriving. The ENFORCE Act strengthens the ability of Customs and Border Protection to prevent foreign manufacturers from evading paying the duties they owe our country. Right now, too many foreign producers ignore our trade laws. “This unfair advantage hurts too many American businesses, forcing them to shut down. These aren’t hypothetical problems, either. Michel’s Furniture in Lynwood, California—right in my own district—had to shut their doors because foreign manufacturers wouldn’t pay the duties they owe our country. Michel’s just couldn’t compete with foreign products that had this illegal price advantage. “American businesses and workers can compete and win against products from anywhere in the world—if we have a level playing field. The ENFORCE Act will level the playing field and will help American manufacturers ‘Make it in America.’” ###
07.09.2012	Washington, DC—Today, House Democratic leaders announced that legislation sponsored by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) will be included as part of the Democrats’ “Make It In America” plan to grow manufacturing jobs. The bipartisan Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion (ENFORCE) Act of 2011 (H.R. 3057), sponsored by Congresswoman Sánchez and Congressman Bill Long (R-MO), will help U.S. Customs and Border Protection enforce trade rules and prevent illegal imports. The ENFORCE Act would establish new procedures for investigating claims against foreign manufacturers for evading anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders. “I am pleased this important trade legislation is being included in the ‘Make It In America’ manufacturing plan,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “For far too long, U.S. manufacturers have been undermined by foreign competitors and their fraudulent schemes to avoid paying the duties they owe. We have to support the American manufacturing sector if we want to create more good-paying jobs here at home. American manufacturers deserve a level playing field, and the ENFORCE Act will ensure that Customs agents will aggressively enforce anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez also introduced the ENFORCE Act in the 111th Congress. Under the ENFORCE Act, domestic producers will be able to petition U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to investigate possible antidumping and countervailing duty evasions. The ENFORCE Act puts in place timelines for CBP to make preliminary and final determinations about whether an importer is engaged in duty evasion. Antidumping duties are imposed when it is established that foreign goods are being sold (or “dumped”) in the U.S. at prices below the prices in the home market. Countervailing duties are imposed when foreign goods receive illegal subsidies that artificially hold down their prices. The duties are meant to even out these illegal practices so that American and foreign goods are competing on a more level playing field when it comes to prices. Those who work to evade these duties are not only breaking the law, they are hurting U.S. businesses and killing jobs. ###
06.29.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress: “I am disappointed that House Republicans sunk this low and voted to hold Attorney General Holder in contempt of Congress. This witch hunt has nothing to do with investigating ‘gunwalking’ and everything to do with trying to bring down Attorney General Holder and smear the Obama administration. “Attorney General Holder went to unprecedented lengths to cooperate with Congressional investigators and provided more than 7,000 documents to Congress. This wasn’t good enough for Chairman Issa and House Republicans, who refused every Democratic request for witnesses and hearings. This is partisan politics at its worst and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.” ###
06.25.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that three out of four key provisions of Arizona’s SB 1070 law were unconstitutional: “I have always believed Arizona’s law was unconstitutional, and I am pleased that the Supreme Court rejected most of the key provisions of SB 1070. However, I am troubled that the Court voted to uphold the requirement that local law enforcement check the immigration status of anyone they feel might be in this country illegally. This misguided provision will lead to racial profiling and discrimination, which violate our country’s values. “Today’s ruling does make it clear that we need a comprehensive, federal solution that puts in place a rational, safe and efficient immigration process. The American people deserve an immigration system that will support our communities and make it possible for millions of young people to contribute to the country they already call home.” ###
06.19.2012	Washington, DC—Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3668), which Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) introduced with Congressman Pat Meehan (R-PA). H.R. 3668 will help law enforcement crack down on counterfeit medications and increase penalties for counterfeit drug trafficking. “The American people deserve to know the medications they take are safe and effective, and this legislation will give them that peace of mind” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I applaud Congress for unanimously passing this necessary and bipartisan legislation that my colleague, Congressman Pat Meehan, and I introduced. As a parent, I never want to worry about any medicine I give my son. I urge the Senate to pass this bill, which will hold counterfeit drug enterprises accountable for putting the public health at risk.” The “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” now goes to the United States Senate for a vote. Background The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011 will increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. While it is currently illegal to introduce counterfeit drugs into interstate commerce, the penalties are no different than those for the trafficking of other products, such as electronics or clothing. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will target criminals who knowingly manufacture, sell or traffic counterfeit medicines to the United States. It has been reported that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities globally each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. Click here to see a clip of Congresswoman Sánchez speaking before the House Judiciary Committee about the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act.” ###
06.15.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after President Obama announced he will direct the Department of Homeland Security to halt the deportation of individuals who were brought to the United States as young people, do not present a risk to national security or public safety, and meet several key criteria: “I applaud President Obama for taking a positive step toward reforming our immigration system. Those who work hard and abide by our laws should have the opportunity to educate themselves and help our great nation prosper and grow,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These changes will make a world of difference to the hundreds of young people in my district who want to give back to the country they call home. It is my hope that the Republican leadership will follow the President’s example and pass the DREAM Act in the House of Representatives.” Individuals who demonstrate that they meet the criteria will be eligible on a case by case basis to receive deferred action for a period of two years, subject to renewal, and will be eligible to apply for work authorization. Congresswoman Sánchez voted in favor of the DREAM Act during the 111th Congress when it successfully passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The DREAM Act is narrow, targeted legislation that has had broad support in the past from the Pentagon, the University of California System, Catholic Charities, and numerous business groups, including the LA Area Chamber of Commerce. ###
06.06.2012	Cerritos, CA – In continuing to recognize veterans for their service, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today named Vietnam War veteran and Whittier resident Alfred Lugo as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for June 2012. Alfred Lugo served in the United States Air Force from 1963 to 1969. He served as crew chief on an F-105 “Thunderchief,” a supersonic fighter bomber. Mr. Lugo was honorably discharged in September 1969. Following his military service, Mr. Lugo has been active in many veteran’s and community organizations. As a volunteer and an organizer, Mr. Lugo has worked to bring awareness to issues affecting Latino veterans. “It is an honor to recognize Mr. Lugo for his service to our country in Vietnam and for the tireless work he’s done on behalf of veterans,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The documentaries he’s produced highlight the sacrifices made by Latino service members and depict a positive portrayal of Latino American war heroes. Mr. Lugo’s dedication to raising awareness on issues affecting veterans is inspiring.” Mr. Lugo has written and produced numerous documentaries honoring Latino war heroes, including “Men of Company” and “Guy Gabaldon…American Hero,” both of which aired on PBS. He wrote and produced his latest documentary, “Roll Call,” which focuses on the lasting effects the Vietnam War has had on returning soldiers. To see a picture of Mr. Lugo receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact (562) 860-5050. ###
06.06.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded the House Judiciary Committee for voting to approve legislation she introduced that would help law enforcement crack down on counterfeit medications. The “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3668), which Congresswoman Sánchez introduced with Congressman Pat Meehan (R-PA), would increase penalties for trafficking counterfeit drugs. The House Judiciary Committee today also approved the "Safe Doses Act" (H.R. 4223), co-sponsored by Congresswoman Sánchez, which would raise penalties for pharmaceutical theft. Together, both bills would help guarantee the authenticity of prescription medications, making them safer for patients. “Americans should never have to worry about the medications they take,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This legislation will help protect seniors and children who are uniquely vulnerable to counterfeit medicines. As a parent, I want peace of mind that any medication that my family takes is safe and authentic. Counterfeit drug enterprises should be held accountable for jeopardizing the public’s safety.” Having been approved by the House Judiciary Committee, both bills now advance to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Click here to see a clip of Congresswoman Sánchez speaking before the House Judiciary Committee about the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act.” ###
06.04.2012	Cerritos, CA — Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced that five students from the 39th Congressional District have received appointments to U.S. service academies for the class of 2016. This year’s class of U.S. service academy appointments is among the largest in District history. The following students received appointments: Air Force Academy · Aaryn Bouzos, La Mirada High School (currently attending the U.S. Air Force Academy Prep School) · Kevin Cabusora, Mayfair High School · Jerry Peer, Richard Gahr High School (currently attending University of California, San Diego) U.S. Naval Academy · Nicholas Musquiz, La Mirada High School Military Academy at West Point · Grant Escobar, Whittier Christian High School “A service academy appointment requires tremendous achievement in both academic study and extracurricular activities,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “All of these students displayed remarkable dedication to earn some very impressive accomplishments. It is inspiring when such talented young people commit themselves to serving our country, and I am confident these students will make our communities and our country proud.” A Congressional nomination is required to receive an appointment from four U.S. service academies: the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. These service academies, plus the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, offer young men and women a free college education at a top-ranked university and train them to be commissioned officers in the armed forces. Students interested in applying to a Service Academy for the Class of 2017, should call Congresswoman Sánchez’ District Office at (562) 860-5050 or visit https://lindasanchez.house.gov/ for an application form. The application deadline is October 19, 2012. ###
05.31.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today after opposing H.R. 3541, the Prenatal Nondiscrimation Act, which jeopardizes a woman’s right to safe and legal health care services. “This misguided bill not only infringes on a woman’s right to choose, but it increases the health disparities that already exist among minority women, erodes the trust that exists between a woman and her doctor, and denies women quality access to healthcare. This bill does nothing to curb discrimination based on race and gender, but rather, imposes additional barriers for women who want to make informed decisions about their health and criminalizes the doctors who provide care to them.” ###
05.24.2012	May 24, 2012 Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate passed legislation that increases the penalties for those who traffic counterfeit drugs. S. 3187, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, includes language similar to that of H.R. 3668, the Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011, which was introduced by Congresswoman Sánchez in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I applaud the Senate for passing legislation that gives our law enforcement officers the tools to better combat counterfeit drug traffickers, and most importantly, helps ensure the welfare of American families. Provisions in today’s bill will help safeguard medications and provide peace of mind for seniors, children and families. I urge the House Judiciary Committee to follow the Senate’s example and take up the Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011, bipartisan, common sense legislation that I introduced with my colleague Rep. Pat Meehan (D-PA). ” Background The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011 will increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. While it is currently illegal to introduce counterfeit drugs into interstate commerce, the penalties are no different than those for the trafficking of other products, such as electronics or clothing. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will target violators that knowingly manufacture, sell or traffic counterfeit medicines to the United States. It has been reported that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities globally each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. H.R. 3668 responds to recommendations made by the U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator and the administration’s Counterfeit Pharmaceutical Inter-Agency Working Group. ###
05.23.2012	Lakewood, CA – On Tuesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) brought together representatives from leading charitable endowments and almost 100 nonprofit organizations from throughout Southern California to advance youth development programs. The “Meet the Grantmakers” networking breakfast was set up to help local nonprofits, specializing in youth development and wellness, develop winning strategies to secure grant funding. “Fully funding youth development programs has never been more crucial than it is right now,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “With proposed cuts to Department of Education and Health and Human Services programs, more of our local nonprofits have had to rely on grants and outside funding to continue child development and wellness programs. We have to continue investing in our children’s futures. I’m hopeful that this conference will help ensure that vital local programs for our young people can continue.” Congresswoman Sánchez partnered with the Long Beach Nonprofit Partnership to host Tuesday’s “Meet the Grantmakers” conference at Mayfair Park in Lakewood. Over 200 professionals from Southern California nonprofit organizations attended and got the opportunity to hear the funding priorities of major charitable endowments. Making presentations at Tuesday’s conference were Judy Ross, Executive Director of the Long Beach Nonprofit Partnership; Jenny Chheang from California Endowment; Wendy Chang from Dwight Stuart Youth Foundation; Mary Christian from Parsons Foundation; and Terrie Doizaki from Weingart Foundation. To see pictures from the “Meet the Grantmakers” networking breakfast, click here. ###
05.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the launch of California company SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket into space from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida: “Today’s launch marks the beginning of a new and promising era in American space travel. It is with great pride and excitement that I congratulate SpaceX for today’s historic and successful launch into space. By building a rocket and spacecraft right here in California, SpaceX has demonstrated that there are no bounds to American innovation and entrepreneurship. This kind of innovation is a big reason why the U.S. continues to be the world’s leader in space exploration.” Background SpaceX facilities are located in Hawthorne, CA. Today marks the first time a private company has sent a spacecraft to the International Space Station. SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket carried the Dragon spacecraft to deliver cargo to the International Space Station. ###
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today regarding H.R. 4970, a Republican bill to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act, which would roll back critical protections for America’s women. “This Republican bill dangerously leaves victims of domestic violence worse off than they are under current law. We should do everything we can to protect victims of domestic violence, and this bill does the opposite. “The Senate passed a strong version of the Violence Against Women Act with broad, bipartisan support. Instead of crafting a bill of similar strength, House Republicans are rolling back crucial protections for abused victims throughout our country. “This bill will make it more difficult for immigrant victims to work with law enforcement to prosecute violent criminals. This Republican bill pretends the LGBT community does not exist and would allow victim services organizations to discriminate against LGBT victims. Further, this Republican bill would endanger the lives of Native American women, who suffer abuse at epidemic proportions. “America’s women deserve better than a bill that puts women’s lives at risk.” To see Congresswoman Sánchez’ speech on the House floor regarding the Violence Against Women Act, click here. ###
05.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the Obama administration announced the introduction of the first national strategy to end Alzheimer’s disease. The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease has set a goal of developing effective prevention and treatment for Alzheimer’s disease and other related dementias by the year 2025. “This announcement offers renewed hope to the millions of Americans suffering from Alzheimer’s disease. I applaud the President Obama and Secretary Sebelius for their continued commitment to fight this devastating disease and for their work to support research, provide education and raise public awareness. “Like more than 5 million Americans, my father suffers from this debilitating illness. I know first-hand the pain and hardship Alzheimer’s inflicts on families. That’s why I am very pleased this plan provides families and caregivers the resources and services necessary to help cope with the physical, emotional, and financial costs of caring for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease.” Background The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease was a requirement set in the National Alzheimer’s Project Act (NAPA), which President Obama signed into law in January 2011. Congresswoman Sánchez was a co-sponsor of H.R. 4689, the House version of NAPA. The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease outlines five goals, including research, training for healthcare providers, easier access to information and resources for caregivers, and an awareness campaign to reach family members and patients in need of information on the disease. Alzheimer’s disease affects more than 5.1 million Americans and is the sixth (6th)leading cause of the death in the United States. To learn more about the national plan to address Alzheimer’s disease, click here. ###
05.10.2012	OIG Report Cites Mismanagement and Lengthy Delays for Veterans Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement after the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) issued a report detailing unacceptable hardships local veterans are experiencing at the Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Regional Office in Los Angeles. The report cites gross mismanagement and a lack of proper training of staff as the leading reasons local veterans are experiencing extreme delays in the processing of benefits claims, as well as a high error rate in disability evaluations. “Today’s findings are troubling and unacceptable. Our veterans have sacrificed so much to defend and protect our country. We must keep our promise to ensure they have the best care and benefits here at home. “The lack of accurate and timely processing of benefit claims poses a significant burden on our veterans, and puts their health at risk. I have been monitoring this issue as a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, and these concerns must be addressed immediately. “The Los Angeles Regional Office must take prompt action to provide our veterans the very best benefit services. I look forward to working with the VA to make sure the Regional Office in Los Angeles improves management oversight and fully trains all staff members so that all benefit claims are processed quickly and accurately. Our veterans deserve better than the treatment outlined in this report.” Background Congresswoman Sánchez currently serves on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. To view a copy of the Office of Inspector General’s full report, “Inspections of the California VA Regional Offices”, click here. ###
05.09.2012	Congresswoman Applauds President for Supporting Same-Sex Marriage Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after President Obama announced his support for same-sex marriage in an interview with ABC News. “I applaud President Obama for endorsing same-sex marriage,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “If we truly believe in the Constitution, it’s clear that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered individuals deserve equal rights. They deserve the right to stand in front of family and friends and proclaim their love and devotion for each other in a ceremony recognized in the eyes of the law. We have a long way to go before we achieve full equality for the LGBT community, but today’s announcement by the President puts us one step closer.” Background Two weeks ago, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Social Security Equality Act of 2012 (H.R. 4609) which would end a Social Security Administration discriminatory policy that denies benefits to same-sex couples. H.R. 4609 would require the Social Security Administration to provide same-sex couples with the same spousal, survivor and death benefits their heterosexual counterparts receive. Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Social Security Equality Act of 2010 in the previous session of Congress. ###
05.08.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee voted to pass a reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act which would eliminate critical protections for women. Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Judiciary Committee, voted against the Republican bill. “Having seen the human face of domestic violence at women’s shelters in my district, I know that our nation’s women deserve a law with strong protections for victims of domestic violence. These protections are for all women, regardless of immigration status, heritage, or sexual orientation. “We should be doing all that we can to prevent victims from further danger, not creating more hurdles for them and making it easier for their abusers to escape prosecution. I urge my Republican colleagues to accept the sensible, bipartisan Violence Against Women Act passed by the Senate.” ###
05.08.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement regarding the decision by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to participate in the “Keep Your Home California,” the state-run program which helps homeowners at-risk of foreclosure. Currently, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own roughly 62% of outstanding mortgages in California. “I am encouraged by the long overdue decision by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to sign on to ‘Keep Your Home California.’ It is a positive first step in helping more homeowners stay in their homes,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Principal reduction is an important tool in foreclosure prevention because it means lower monthly mortgage payments for underwater homeowners. While much more work needs to be done to solve the housing crisis, I am hopeful this decision by Fannie and Freddie will help provide much needed relief for California homeowners.” ###
05.05.2012	Local High School Art to be Displayed in U.S. Capitol La Mirada, CA – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced the winners of her 10th Annual 39th Congressional District High School Art Competition. Vighnesh Iyer, a junior at Whitney High School in Cerritos, took first place with his piece titled, “Hopeful Eyes.” Iyer’s piece was inspired by his work with the non-profit organization Students Travel and Exposure South Africa (STAESA). Last summer, Iyer traveled to Ghana to help build an orphanage in the small village of Aflao. The children portrayed in the picture are still awaiting the completion of the orphanage. Iyer plans to return to Ghana this upcoming summer to help in the orphanage’s construction. Top Finishers: 1. Vighnesh Iyer, Whitney High School, “Hopeful Eyes” 2. Joshua Ray Sanchez , La Mirada High School, “A Modern Mind” 3. Michaela Zanoria, Mayfair High School, “A Place of Wonders” Of 144 entries received, winners were selected by a panel of local art experts as the overall winner from seven artistic categories. Students from all over California’s 39th District participated in the art competition. Iyer will travel to Washington D.C. in June for the official awards presentation of all national winners. His winning piece will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. ###
05.01.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today in honor of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: “I am incredibly proud to represent cities that are known throughout Southern California for their prominent Asian Pacific American communities,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “During Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I congratulate all Asian Pacific Americans for their past contributions and continued achievements. I hope we can all take some time this month to honor and recognize their contributions to the diverse cultural fabric of our country.” Congresswoman Sánchez is one of 11 new members of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC). Comprised of 30 congressional members, the caucus works to ensure that the concerns and needs of the Asian American Pacific Island (AAPI) community are addressed at the national level. ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded the House Veterans Committee for voting to approve legislation she championed that would make home mortgages more affordable for veterans. Having been approved by the House Veterans Affairs Committee, the legislation now advances to the full House of Representatives for consideration. “We must keep our promise to take care of our veterans, and we owe it to them to make mortgages more affordable,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It’s crucial that we extend this mortgage program to help veterans stay in their homes and help more veterans pursue to the American Dream of owning a home. This mortgage program is especially critical in California where so many veterans reside, which is why I fought so hard for its extension. I am extremely pleased that the Veterans Affairs Committee has approved a permanent extension of this program which benefits so many brave men and women who have served our country.” In November 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced legislation which would extend the Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARMs) and Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgages. VA-backed ARMs and hybrid ARMs differ from conventional mortgages in that, if interest rates drop, veterans can save thousands of dollars in mortgage payments. Congresswoman Sánchez, who serves on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, drafted mortgage program extension legislation after holding several meetings with her Veterans Advisory Council. Formed in August 2010, her Veterans Advisory Council is comprised of distinguished veterans from the 39th Congressional District who give Congresswoman Sánchez feedback on veterans’ issues. ###
04.26.2012	Congresswoman Introduces Bill to End Social Security Discrimination Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced the introduction of the Social Security Equality Act of 2012 (H.R. 4609) which would end a Social Security Administration discriminatory policy that denies benefits to same-sex couples. “No American should ever be treated differently by the country they love because of who they love,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Social Security is based on a simple formula--work hard, pay into it with each paycheck, and be able to retire with dignity. This must apply to all Americans, regardless of their sexual orientation. It is time the Social Security Administration ends a misguided policy that discriminates against same-sex couples.” Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Social Security Equality Act of 2012 at a Capitol Hill press conference along with leading LGBT advocates from across the country, including actor and LGBT activist George Takei. H.R. 4609 would eliminate the Social Security Administration’s policy preventing same-sex couples from receiving the same spousal, survivor and death benefits their heterosexual counterparts receive. “The Social Security Equality Act will make a crucial difference to countless elderly LGBT people who are struggling to survive because their own government has denied them the Social Security benefits their spouse’s paid for and to which they are entitled,” said Lorri L. Jean, L.A. Gay & Lesbian Center CEO. “That’s not only wrong, it’s un-American.” The Social Security Equality Act of 2012 would require the Social Security Administration to provide spousal, survivor and death benefits to same sex couples in relationships that have been recognized by the state where they live. H.R. 4609 was introduced with 94 original co-sponsors and has been referred to the House Ways and Means Committee. Background Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Social Security Equality Act of 2010 in the previous session of Congress. H.R. 4609 has garnered support from the L.A. Gay and Lesbian Center, the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force Action Fund, AIDS Community Action Foundation, SAGE (Services & Advocacy for GLBT Elders), and PFLAG (Parents Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays). ###
04.24.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today in recognition of Armenian Remembrance Day: “Today, we solemnly mark the 97th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide by remembering the 1.5 million Armenians who were murdered in the waning years of the Ottoman Empire. I hope that acknowledging this atrocity will help heal the pain caused by the horrendous events in 1915. “As a proud co-sponsor of H. Res. 304 which calls on the President to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide, I believe it is incredibly important to acknowledge the atrocities. It is my sincere hope that this recognition will help the Turkish and Armenian governments foster a peaceful, mutually beneficial relationship. I would like to express my sympathy to all descendants of Armenian Genocide victims and hope we can all take time to reflect on this solemn day.” ###
04.20.2012	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after President Obama endorsed the Safe Schools Improvement Act, which Congresswoman Sánchez introduced to provide schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and reduce rising drop-out rates. “President Obama has taken an active role in bullying prevention, and I’m honored that he is putting his support behind the Safe Schools Improvement Act,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Every student has the right to a safe learning environment, free from threats and intimidation. Bullying is destructive behavior that not only damages a student’s ability to learn, but also leaves the victims with deep emotional scars.” The White House released this statement in support of anti-bullying legislation: “The President and his Administration have taken many steps to address the issue of bullying. He is proud to support the Student Non-Discrimination Act, introduced by Senator Franken and Congressman Polis, and the Safe Schools Improvement Act, introduced by Senator Casey and Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. These bills will help ensure that all students are safe and healthy and can learn in environments free from discrimination, bullying and harassment.” The Safe Schools Improvement Act (H.R. 1648) would require schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. This proposed legislation would ensure that schools protect students, whether they are being targeted based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, or any other basis. H.R. 1648 has garnered support from broad range of organizations, including the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the Human Rights Campaign; and the National Council of La Raza. Background Congresswoman Sánchez introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act in the previous two sessions of Congress. Because of her leadership in advancing anti-bullying legislation, Congresswoman Sánchez joined President Obama at a White House conference on bullying prevention in March 2011. ###
04.18.2012	Cerritos, CA – In continuing her veterans’ outreach program, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today named World War II veteran and Cerritos resident Floyd Freeman as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for April 2012. Floyd Freeman joined United States Army in July of 1943 and served in WWII with I Company, 275th Infantry Regiment and the 370th Medical Battalion of the 70th Infantry Division in France and Germany. Mr. Freeman first trained and served in the infantry, and eventually became a medic and a Chaplain’s Assistant. Mr. Freeman received an Honorable Discharge in May 1946. “It is an honor to recognize Mr. Freeman for his service to our country in World War II,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The reason they call Mr. Freeman’s generation the ‘Greatest Generation’ is because their sacrifice won the war and preserved the freedoms we enjoy today. We owe Mr. Freeman a huge debt of gratitude for the bravery he showed.” For his service, Mr. Freeman was awarded the Bronze Star, the Good Conduct Medal, the American Campaign Medal, the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with two bronze service stars, and the World War II Victory Medal. Following his military service, Mr. Freeman started a successful travel agency. To see a picture of Mr. Freeman receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact (562) 860-5050. ###
04.18.2012	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today praised the California Assembly for passing legislation which would give schools more tools to crack down on online bullying by students. Earlier this week, the Assembly passed AB1732 which would provide schools with more authority to punish students who bully their classmates using social networking sites. “Our children are so wired into social networks today that they often type more messages than they speak each day,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I applaud the Assembly for voting to close the loopholes in California’s cyberbullying law. Bullying doesn’t just take place in the schoolyard anymore. It’s happening in the virtual world and our children can now be bullied any hour of the day or night—even in their own homes. This legislation is an important step in making California schools safer.” AB1732 would give schools the ability to suspend or expel students who engage in cyberbullying. The bill passed the Assembly 58-0 and the bill now moves to the California Senate. Background In 2008 and 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the “Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act,” which makes cyberbullying a federal crime. This legislation was named after a Missouri teenager, who committed suicide after being cyberbullied through a social networking website. In 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Safe Schools Improvement Act (H.R. 1648) which would require schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. Congresswoman Sánchez introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act in the previous two sessions of Congress. ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today praised President Obama for proclaiming March 29, 2012 “Vietnam Veterans Day.” Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has been a leading advocate for a designating a day to honor Vietnam War veterans and worked closely with the White House on this issue. This week, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced legislation (H. Res 601) giving long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans with “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day 2012,” which commemorates the day when the last U.S. combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. “As a nation, we have fallen short in our duty to properly recognize the brave men and women who served in Vietnam,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Too many of our troops returned from Vietnam after honorably serving our country and never received a proper homecoming, or even a simple ‘thank you and welcome home.’ Instead, many Vietnam veterans returned home to face hostility, harsh ridicule, and criticism from the American public. We are long overdue in honoring these veterans for their dedicated service to our country.” Congresswoman Sánchez has introduced a “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” resolution every Congress since she was elected in 2002. The resolution has always received broad bipartisan support by the House of Representatives. Congresswoman Sánchez work to honor Vietnam veterans began in 2003, following a meeting with constituent Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA, who has worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. ###
03.28.2012	Washington, DC – In continuing her work to keep children and families safe, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today entered a statement for the Congressional Record in support of the “Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3668), which will increase penalties for trafficking counterfeit drugs. The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security today held a hearing on H.R. 3668, which Congresswoman Sánchez (D-CA) introduced with Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-PA) in November 2011. “The American people deserve to know the medicine they put into their bodies is safe and effective,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As a parent, I want peace of mind that any medication that my family takes is authentic. We need to hold counterfeit drug enterprises accountable for putting the public’s safety at risk and robbing American businesses of millions of dollars in revenue. This legislation gives our law enforcement officers the tools to better go after counterfeit drug traffickers, and most importantly, this bill helps ensure the safety of the medications upon which our seniors and children rely.” Background The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011 will increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. While it is currently illegal to introduce counterfeit drugs into interstate commerce, the penalties are no different than those for the trafficking of other products, such as electronics or clothing. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will target violators that knowingly manufacture, sell or traffic counterfeit medicines to the United States. It has been reported that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities globally each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. H.R. 3668 responds to recommendations made by the U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator and the administration’s Counterfeit Pharmaceutical Inter-agency Working Group. Below is a copy of the statement: Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez Wednesday, March 28, 2012 Statement for the Record, Subcommittee on the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Hearing on: H.R. 4223, the "Safe Doses Act"; H.R. 3668, the "Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011"; and, H.R. 4216, the "Foreign Counterfeit Prevention Act." Mr. Chairman, Thank you for including H.R. 3668, the "Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act of 2011" in this important hearing about the security of the pharmaceuticals upon which our constituents, seniors and children all rely. I am proud to have introduced H.R. 3668 with my colleague, Representative Patrick Meehan of Pennsylvania. I am also pleased to note that the Senate counterpart, S. 1886, which was introduced by Chairman Patrick Leahy and Ranking Member Charles Grassley of the Senate Judiciary Committee, passed the Senate by voice vote earlier this month. This demonstrates that this legislation is needed, bipartisan, and non-controversial. I strongly encourage this Committee to swiftly move this legislation to a mark-up, and from there, to the House floor. Why is it so important to move this legislation? Because our constituents deserve to know the medicine they put into their bodies is safe and effective. While all of our districts are impacted by counterfeit pharmaceuticals, I would like to describe an incident that occurred near my home in Southern California. In Los Angeles, a mother and son went looking for some relief from their nagging colds at what they thought was a health clinic. Unfortunately, what they were told was medication didn’t just make them sick, it sent them to the hospital. The mother reported that as soon as the “vitamin injection” hit her bloodstream, her heart started racing. Then, her lips went numb and she started getting excruciating headaches. After that, she started passing out. She lost 30 pounds in a week and her pancreas stopped working. This frightening story shows the dangers of fraudulent medicines are very real, and the consequences can be fatal. The Swiss drugmaker Roche, which produces the popular cancer drug Avastin, recently became well acquainted with this rampant problem. Roche is still investigating how phony vials of Avastin made it to nineteen oncology practices in the U.S. The FDA began notifying clinics about the questionable drugs in mid-February, but counterfeit Avastin might have made it to doctor’s offices as early as last July. Roche analyzed the vials of phony Avastin in February, and didn’t find the active ingredient found in the cancer drug. However, they say they found traces of the chemical acetone—a solvent used in paint thinner. To date, there is no medical use for acetone. Experts say that it’s tough to gauge what harm a counterfeit cancer treatment can inflict on a patient because drug infusions are typically spaced out over weeks and months. So, in the span of six months, a cancer patient might have received up to twenty fake Avastin infusions. That’s twenty treatments that did nothing to improve the health of a patient suffering from cancer. The list of drugs that authorities have found to be counterfeited is a long one. They include medications that treat cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, ulcers, high-blood pressure and high cholesterol. Certain vaccines have even been counterfeited. Counterfeit drugs account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue. Why are these criminals so bold? It’s because, currently, the penalty for selling a counterfeit drug is the same as selling a bootleg DVD. A DVD will not cause you bodily harm, but each year counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities worldwide. It stands to reason that we should have penalties in place that reflect the serious health dangers posed by these phony medications. H.R. 3668 would be a strong step by this Committee in addressing this problem. This bipartisan, non-controversial legislation would increase the penalties for those who engage in trafficking of counterfeit drugs acting as an important deterrent to criminals and providing greater consumer confidence in their medication. Thank you Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing, and I again urge this Committee to quickly move H.R. 3668. ###
03.27.2012	Washington, DC –Continuing to shine a light on the long term effects of head injuries, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) yesterday sent a letter to House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith requesting full Committee hearings on the physical impacts, cost of care, and legal issues related to head injuries in professional and amateur sports. Congresswoman Sánchez made her request after revelations that the New Orleans Saints of the National Football League (NFL) engaged in a “bounty system” that rewarded players for purposely injuring opposing players. “We are long overdue for a comprehensive national dialogue on the effects of head injuries, not just for NFL players, but for everyone who participates in sports at all levels,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “Previous Judiciary Committee hearings started a much needed discussion on traumatic brain injuries in football. Those hearings led to positive changes to brain injury guidelines on the professional, college and high school levels. With more of our children playing contact sports, new Judiciary Committee hearings on head injuries could be a crucial step in protecting our children from serious injury.”Background In 2007, Congresswoman Sánchez chaired a hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law to examine if the NFL’s player disability plan was adequately serving former players, many of whom suffer from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) as a result of multiple concussions. In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez participated in multiple hearings regarding head injuries and football, and grilled NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell over the league’s concussion awareness campaign. These hearings resulted in greater public awareness and changes to how football teams address player concussions on all levels of play. The full text of the letter is below. March 26, 2012 Chairman Lamar Smith 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Smith, As you are aware, there has been a great deal of recent media attention regarding injuries in professional sports. Like many sports fans, I was incredibly disturbed by recent revelations that the New Orleans Saints of the National Football League (NFL) engaged in a “bounty system” that rewarded players for purposely injuring opposing players. I commend the NFL for taking immediate and severe action in disciplining those involved in the Saints’ bounty system. I believe the actions by the NFL will help deter anyone from participating in this type of behavior in the future. However, in light of these recent events and the potential liability issues from the ongoing litigation against the NFL by former players with mental and physical problems caused by head injuries, I am requesting that the House Judiciary Committee conduct a series of hearings to investigate and discuss the physical impacts, quantitative costs of care, and any legal issues related to head injuries in professional and amateur sports. These liability issues deserve federal scrutiny due to the NFL’s legislatively sanctioned, antitrust exempt status. My concern is not the New Orleans Saints and their completely inexcusable behavior. My concern, and the concern of millions parents throughout this country, is determining what are the long term effects of head injuries. It is estimated that 1.6 to 3.8 million Americans will suffer a sports-related concussion each year[i]. I believe the “Bounty Gate” scandal reaffirms the need for Congress to examine the liability, health, and safety issues related to head injuries in professional and amateur sports. More and more of our children are engaging in contact sports and they are starting at earlier ages than previous generations. Currently, there are approximately 5 million athletes participating in organized football in the United States; with 2000 NFL players, 100,000 college players, 1.3 million high school players, and 3.5 million youth players[ii] [iii]. Additionally, a recent study shows that head impacts among second-grade football players are sometimes as severe as the impacts that college players experience, even though the youth players have less body mass and play at slower speeds[iv]. These hearing are not meant to discourage people from engaging in competitive sports. In fact, these hearings will be designed to discover the effective practices that protect players, especially children, from injury. It is my hope that these hearings will provide a level of education for parents and athletes regarding the long term effects of head injuries. As you will recall, hearings in previous Congresses brought public attention to the issue of traumatic brain injuries in sports and led to reforms on all levels of sport. Those hearings made a very real and positive impact on the health and safety of our constituents. I believe it is appropriate now for us to return to this issue for Congressional oversight. It is time to start a comprehensive national dialogue on the effects of brain injuries, not just for retried NFL players, but for everyone that participates in amateur sports. We owe it to all of these groups to be proactive on head injuries and to continue to bring public attention to the dangers. Most importantly, we owe it to our children to search for solutions in protecting them from serious injury. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress ### ——————————————— [i] CDC. Sports related concussions. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, HCUIP, 60, 2011. [ii] Guskiewicz, K. M., N. L. Weaver, D. A. Padua, and W. E. Garrett, Jr.Epidemiology of concussion in collegiate and high school football players. Am. J. SportsMed. 28:643–650, 2000. [iii] Powell, J. W., and K. D. Barber-Foss. Traumatic brain injury in high school athletes. JAMA 282:958–963, 1999. [iv] Rowson, S., and S. M. Duma. Development of the star evaluation system for football helmets: integrating player head impact exposure and risk of concussion. Ann. Biomed. Eng. 39:2130–2140, 2011.
03.26.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is proud to announce that she has been re-appointed to President Obama’s Export Council. As the principal advisory committee on international trade, the Council promotes export expansion and advises President Obama on government policies and programs that affect U.S. trade performance.“I look forward to continuing to serve on the President’s Export Council so that we can work towards solutions that strengthen our economy and put Americans back to work,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It is vital that we invest in our manufacturing sector so that we can out-innovate the rest of the world, so that American goods can dominate the global marketplace. We should also be striving to create a rail cargo strategy that makes it possible for goods to move efficiently. Most importantly, we need to pursue trade policies that prevent good paying American jobs from being shipped overseas.” Established by presidential executive order in 1973, the Council is composed of business executives, leaders in the labor and agriculture communities, Members of Congress, and officials from the executive branch. The Council reports to the President through the Secretary of Commerce. In addition to promoting exports to create American jobs, the Council works to strengthen our economy on the global stage and address trade-related challenges among business, industrial, agricultural, labor and government communities. ###
03.23.2012	Washington, DC—In honor of the second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act becoming law, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement: “Two years after President Obama signed it into law, millions of Americans are benefiting from the Affordable Care Act because they have access to more affordable and comprehensive healthcare coverage. Parents have the peace of mind that insurance companies can no longer deny their children coverage for a pre-existing condition. Some 86 million Americans have received free preventive services. Seniors have saved $3.2 billion on their prescription drugs. Additionally, 2.5 million adults under the age of 26 now have health insurance under their parents’ plans. “The health care law is providing real help for families all across the country, and constituents from California’s 39th District have certainly seen that help. 6,500 young adults now have health insurance. 27,000 children and 100,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. 45,000 children with pre-existing health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by their health insurance providers. “The Affordable Care Act has made a significant impact in the lives of millions, but there is more work to be done. Congress must work towards ensuring that more Americans can receive affordable healthcare that will improve the lives of our families.” In 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act, which ends discrimination against women by barring health insurance companies from charging women more for health insurance premiums than men. This legislation became part of the Affordable Care Act. ###
03.09.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 227,000 jobs in February, marking 24 consecutive months of private sector job growth. “I am encouraged by the economy’s continued signs of improvement. February was a month of robust job growth, and unemployment at its lowest rate in three years. While this is positive news, I know that millions of Americans continue to struggle to make ends meet. “The unemployment rate remains unacceptably high. Congress should be focusing on passing legislation that truly creates jobs, like investing in transportation infrastructure. Instead, House Republicans have rolled out a transportation bill that slashes highway infrastructure investment and would destroy 550,000 American jobs. I urge Republicans to join House Democrats and pass a bipartisan transportation bill that invests in our infrastructure and would put 2 million Americans back to work. “I continue to be focused on creating jobs, growing our economy, and supporting working families. Hardworking American families can’t wait for the House Majority to waste any more repackaging old bills and calling them a ‘Jobs Act.’” ###
03.06.2012	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) is pleased to announce her annual Congressional Arts Competition for high school students, also known as “An Artistic Discovery.”“I love getting the chance to see how talented and creative our students are, which is why I look forward to this competition every year” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “This art competition is personally fun for me because the artistic gifts of our students are on full display for everyone to see. Besides recognizing creativity, the competition also reminds us all of the importance of art in education.” The theme for the art competition is “What Inspires You?” Students are encouraged to create images of people and/or an abstract concept that inspires them. A panel of local art experts will review all entries and select category winners. Artists may create a piece specifically for the competition or submit a previously created work. The overall winner and one adult from their family will be flown for free to Washington, DC for a reception and ceremony with overall winners from around the nation. The winning artwork will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Congresswoman Sánchez will host a Congressional Arts Competition reception in the district on Saturday, May 5, 2012. Student artists who submitted an entry will have their art on display to be viewed and recognized by the public. Category winners and overall winner will be announced and recognized for their achievements at this reception. Submissions must be from the 39th Congressional District of California to participate. Students from other congressional districts are strongly encouraged to contact their individual Member of Congress for information on his or her art competition. To locate a Member of Congress, please visit www.house.gov. Students can visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov or contact their High School Art Department for more information. The deadline to submit artwork to Congresswoman Sánchez’ district office in Cerritos is Friday, March 23, 2012 by 5:00pm PT. ###
03.06.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ): “I am deeply saddened by the passing of Congressman Donald Payne, a true public servant who dedicated his life to helping his country and his constituents. A true humanitarian, Donald was always quick to call attention to some of the world’s most important foreign affairs and human rights issues. He felt so strongly about promoting social justice that he often risked his life by traveling to some of the world’s most dangerous places to see human injustice up close. Congressman Payne was also a tireless advocate for education, fighting his hardest for the best interests of our children. “Donald will be greatly missed by all those fortunate enough to have crossed paths with him. I am proud to say that I could call Donald a friend. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and constituents during this difficult time.” ###
02.28.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement after Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee challenged whether all women should have access to contraception. House Republicans called today’s hearing in response to the Obama Administration’s decision to ensure all women have access to contraception by requiring health insurance companies to cover contraception in cases where religiously affiliated employers object.“All women deserve access to contraception. What is being debated before the Committee has nothing to do with religious liberty. The regulations that the Obama Administration adopted were developed by an objective, non-partisan panel. This hearing has everything to do with House Republicans trying to control the decisions best left to a woman and her doctor. “All women should have access to birth control regardless of where they work and how much money they make. Despite what many of my colleagues believe, contraception is not a cheap, easily accessible solution for all women. Nearly a third of women risk health problems by inconsistently using birth control pills to save money. “Birth control is preventive health care. Studies have shown that birth control has prevented 100,000 deaths and 200,000 occurrences of ovarian cancer. On top of that, a large percentage of women use the Pill for other health reasons, not for contraceptive purposes. Millions of women would be denied this medical care should these regulations not go into effect. “Most importantly, birth control is a matter of individual choice. That choice should be made a woman, not her employer.”Background Since coming to Congress, Linda Sánchez has fought to protect women’s health services. In 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act, which ends discrimination against women by barring health insurance companies from charging women more for health care premiums than men. The Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act became part of the Affordable Care Act, which President Obama signed into law in 2010. Additionally, Congresswoman Sánchez consistently receives a 100% rating from the Planned Parenthood Action Fund based on her record of support for reproductive health and rights. ###
02.15.2012	Washington, DC—Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement urging Congress to pass the Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act after the maker of the popular cancer drug Avastin announced it had discovered counterfeit versions of the medicine circulating in the U.S. “The Avastin case once again highlights the urgency for legislation that more effectively deters trafficking in counterfeit drugs,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The American people deserve protection from the massive counterfeit drug enterprises that jeopardize the public’s safety and rob American businesses of millions of dollars in revenue. American consumers deserve to have peace of mind when they take medication, and I urge my colleagues to take up the Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act.” Reports show that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities worldwide each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. Introduced by Congresswoman Sánchez last November, the Drug Penalty Enhancement Act is bipartisan and bicameral legislation that seeks to increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. To learn more about the legislation, click here. ###
02.07.2012	Washington, DC—Recognizing her leadership in fighting for children and families, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) was today named a “2011 Champion for Children” by a leading child advocacy organization. The First Focus Campaign for Children—an organization that works to ensure that the needs of children and families are a priority in federal budget decisions—also named Congresswoman Sánchez a “Champion for Children” in 2010.“Children are the hope and future of our nation, and I have always believed that children deserve to be at the forefront of our national discussion,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I will never stop fighting to ensure that our children have the education, care, and resources they need to achieve their full potential.” In 2011, Congresswoman Sánchez proudly introduced the Safe Schools Improvement Act of 2011 and the Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act. Both pieces of legislation would help provide children with a safe learning environment and the support they need to succeed in the classroom. Each year, the First Focus Campaign for Children recognizes over 50 House and Senate members for their leadership on issues important to children during 2011. In making their selections, the First Focus Campaign considers a member’s initiative in introducing, co-sponsoring, and voting for legislation that advances the needs of children. ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today praising President Obama’s Veterans Jobs Corps initiative, which aims to lower the unemployment rate among veterans. Through a series of grants, the Veterans Jobs Corps initiative would train and put veterans to work on local projects and place them in positions that utilize the skills they developed in the military.“I commend President Obama for making veteran unemployment a priority in his administration. The brave men and women of our military have made significant sacrifices for of our country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We should be doing everything we can to make sure they have jobs when they return home from serving our country.” Congresswoman Sánchez currently sits on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Last year, Sánchez introduced the “Veteran Success Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3329) to provide disabled veterans with rehabilitation and job training. ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today praising President Obama’s Veterans Jobs Corps initiative, which aims to lower the unemployment rate among veterans. Through a series of grants, the Veterans Jobs Corps initiative would train and put veterans to work on local projects and place them in positions that utilize the skills they developed in the military. “I commend President Obama for making veteran unemployment a priority in his administration. The brave men and women of our military have made significant sacrifices for of our country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We should be doing everything we can to make sure they have jobs when they return home from serving our country.” Congresswoman Sánchez currently sits on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Last year, Sánchez introduced the “Veteran Success Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3329) to provide disabled veterans with rehabilitation and job training. ###
01.24.2012	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I applaud President Obama for staying focused on the importance of continuing to build an economy that gives every American the opportunity to fulfill the American dream. Since 2009, we’ve added 3.2 million jobs and had twenty-two consecutive months of private sector job growth. We are moving in the right direction, but there’s much more work that needs to be done. “It is critically important for Southern California that we restore the health of our housing sector. In order for our economy to fully recover, we have to pursue solutions that help homeowners with underwater mortgages. “We should also fully support the American manufacturing sector, which is creating jobs for the first time in almost two decades. We should build on this progress by embracing policies like the ‘Make it in America’ agenda, which encourages innovation and helps our country stay competitive in the global market. “Congress must make creating jobs its top priority. I encourage House Republicans to join with Democrats and work together on legislation that puts Americans back to work.” ###
01.06.2012	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced today that the economy added 200,000 jobs in December and the unemployment rate fell to 8.5 percent—the lowest rate in nearly 3 years: “The December jobs report is a very encouraging sign that the economy is improving. However, there is much more work that needs to be done to bring down an unacceptably high unemployment rate. “It is vital that Congress make job creation its top priority right now. We have gone an entire year without a serious job creation plan, and the American people simply can’t afford for Republicans to continue to waste time with destructive partisan games. “It’s time for Congress to get to work on policies that strengthen our economy and put Americans back to work. I encourage House Republicans to work with Democrats on a long-term extension of the payroll tax cut, which would help stimulate the economy and put more money back in the pockets of 160 million Americans.” ###
01.04.2012	Cerritos, CA – In continuing her veterans’ outreach program, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) has named Operation Desert Shield veteran and Lakewood resident Ernesto “Ernie” Aguilar as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for December 2011. Ernie Aguilar joined the U.S. Army in January 1995. He served in the 1st Calvary Division as an infantryman and medic during Operation Desert Shield, where he carried out policing operations in Kuwait. Mr. Aguilar was honorably discharged in June 1997. For his service, Aguilar was awarded the National Defense Service Medal and several other commendations. “It is an honor to recognize Mr. Aguilar’s service to our country, as a member of the Army and as a tireless advocate for veterans,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Since being honorably discharged, Mr. Aguilar has dedicated himself to advancing the rights of veterans and raising awareness on veterans’ issues. His work with veterans suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder has saved the lives of local veterans. We all owe Mr. Aguilar a debt of gratitude for his dedication.” Mr. Aguilar is a very active member of several veterans’ organizations. He serves as the Commander of the Long Beach City College Veterans Club and chairs the college’s Veterans Resource Center. He belongs to the American Legion Post 496 (Lakewood), AMVETS Post 48 (Paramount), and the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 7243 (Hawaiian Gardens). Mr. Aguilar is also very passionate about helping veterans with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). He regularly reaches out to veterans and their families to provide information on different resources to treat PTSD. Through his work, Mr. Aguilar has helped prevent five veterans from committing suicide. Additionally, Mr. Aguilar has worked with the Student Veterans of America to help draft legislation designed to improve veteran education opportunities and encourage veteran employment at the Department of Veterans Affairs. To see a picture of Mr. Aguilar receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. ###
12.23.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after House Republicans finally agreed to a bill that provides 160 million Americans a $1,000 payroll tax cut, extends long-term unemployment insurance and prevents deep cuts in payments to doctors who see Medicare patients: ““This is good news for Southern Californians. I am pleased that millions of American families won’t see their taxes go up, unemployment benefits will be extended, and seniors will continue to get the Medicare services they’ve earned. I fully supported these extensions, and so did the American people. I don’t understand why Republicans continue to employ brinkmanship so that they can fight for tax breaks for billionaires. I look forward toward passing legislation with a yearlong extension of the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance, which also ensures that seniors can continue to have a choice when it comes to their doctors.” ###
12.22.2011	Congresswomen Ask Secretary La Hood for Emergency Funds to Cover Paramount Blvd. Bridge Reconstruction Washington, DC – Today, Congresswomen Linda Sánchez (CA-39), Grace Napolitano (CA-38) and Judy Chu (CA-32) formally requested federal funds from the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) to repair the damage to the 60 Freeway and the Paramount Boulevard Bridge in Montebello, CA caused by a gasoline tanker explosion. "Los Angeles drivers know how important the 60 Freeway and Paramount Boulevard are for commuting and for commerce,” said Congresswomen Sánchez. “Major traffic delays can have a devastating impact on our economy. That’s why it’s crucial that we repair the 60 Freeway and the Paramount Boulevard Bridge as quickly and as safely as possible. I look forward to working with my colleagues, as well as local and state officials, to make sure that these repairs get the proper federal funding. California is experiencing a major budget crunch, and the need for this funding is greater than ever." “On Monday, Rep. Sánchez and I contacted Governor Brown and Secretary LaHood directly to request assistance with the reconstruction of the Paramount Boulevard bridge,” said Congresswoman Napolitano. “I was grateful for the quick declaration of a state of emergency the following day. With this official disaster designation in place, it is now critical for the federal government to assist us with funding to expedite the rebuilding process. We must act quickly to rebuild the Paramount Boulevard bridge and restore the flow of traffic and access to local businesses for everyone who lives and works in the Montebello area.” “This is a critical artery Angelinos use to get to work and go about their daily lives,” said Congresswoman Chu. “The bridge fire caused commutes between the San Gabriel Valley and Los Angeles to double and triple. We must repair the bridge as quickly as possible to limit the economic and personal impact of this disaster on local communities. Federal emergency relief funding will be crucial to this effort.” On December 14, 2011, a tanker carrying 8,800 gallons of gasoline exploded while traveling on the 60 Freeway under the Paramount Boulevard overpass. The explosion destroyed the Paramount Boulevard Bridge, which shut down the 60 Freeway while crews demolished the bridge. The explosion also forced the closure of Paramount Boulevard, an important commercial corridor in the region. Yesterday, California Governor Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency in response to the 60 Freeway tanker fire. The emergency declaration initiates the process for obtaining federal funds to reimburse state and local costs of repairing the bridge. Congresswomen Sánchez, Napolitano, and Chu today sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Ray La Hood asking that USDOT provide funds from the federal Emergency Relief (ER) Program for repairs to the 60 freeway and the reconstruction of the bridge. ###
12.21.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after House Republicans blocked a bill that would provide 160 million Americans a $1,000 payroll tax cut: “Once again, Speaker Boehner and House Republicans have chosen to raise taxes on millions of American families, cut unemployment benefits, and deny seniors the Medicare services they’ve earned. Instead, Republicans continue to fight for tax breaks for billionaires. Tea Party Republicans are clearly out of touch with mainstream America. My constituents and all Californians deserve better. ” ###
12.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) applauded the Department of Labor for a proposed rule change that would provide nearly two million home care workers minimum wage and overtime protections. Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leading advocate for protecting in-home care workers and improving direct care services for seniors and people with disabilities. In June, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act (H.R. 2341) which would ensure minimum wage and overtime protections for home care workers. Congresswoman Sánchez introduced a similar bill, the Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act, in the 111th Congress. “I am pleased that direct care workers will finally get these long overdue protections,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Home care touches all of us. Home care workers provide essential care and daily living services to more than 13 million elderly and disabled Americans. It makes no sense that they have gone so long without being guaranteed the minimum wage or overtime. I commend the Department of Labor for making this rule change and correcting this injustice.” "As the demand for home care grows, it becomes more important for workers to be able to commit to their profession for the long term. This only happens if we make sure they get the fair wages, training, and support they deserve and need," said David Ward, Director of Policy and Planning for Direct Care Alliance. “By offering solutions to key issues that destabilize the home care workforce, The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act has helped focus attention on this growing problem. Direct Care Alliance is grateful to Congresswoman Sánchez for her visionary leadership on this issue.” Today, President Obama announced that the Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division will revise the companionship and live-in worker regulations under the Fair Labor Standards Act. These revisions will provide minimum wage and overtime protections for workers who provide in-home care services for the elderly and infirm. In addition to these protections, Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act” would improve federal and state data collection and oversight regarding the direct care workforce. The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act also establishes grant programs to help states improve direct care worker data collection, recruitment, retention, and training. The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act is supported by more than seventy (70) organizations, including the Direct Care Alliance, AFL-CIO, AFSCME, SEIU, the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute (PHI), and the National Employment Law Project (NELP). ###
12.14.2011	Congresswoman Hails the Return of All U.S. Troops by December 31 Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after President Obama today spoke to troops in Fort Bragg, NC, in which he highlighted the end of the war in Iraq and welcomed home returning veterans: “I want to commend President Obama for keeping his promise to end the war in Iraq and bringing all of our troops home by the end of the year. I also want to salute the service of more than one million Americans who served in Iraq, and honor the memory of the nearly 4,500 Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice. “I join all Americans in honoring their service and sacrifice, and those of their families. Over the course of nine years, California has paid a high price in Iraq. Tragically, 478 Californians were killed during the Iraq War, and more than 3,000 Californians were wounded. “I have long supported a timeline and benchmarks for our military commitment in Iraq, and I am pleased that President Obama is responsibly ending the Iraq War. Responsibly ending the war makes us stronger around the world and at home. “I have consistently voted for a safe, orderly withdrawal of our troops from Iraq, and I am pleased this is almost a reality. I join President Obama and all Americans in saluting all of the brave men and women in uniform whose service make this withdrawal possible.” ###
12.12.2011	Washington, DC –Today, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 2158, legislation introduced by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) which honors the accomplishments of long-time civic leader and public servant, the Honorable Wayne Grisham (R-La Mirada). H.R. 2158 designates the U.S. Post Office located at 14901 Adelfa Drive in La Mirada, CA, as the “Wayne Grisham Post Office.” “Wayne Grisham was a man of principle and great personal integrity who believed in a civil political discourse,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Every public servant should show the same dedication as Wayne showed for our local community. Wayne truly believed in helping people and his hard work as a member of La Mirada City Council, the California State Assembly, and Congress has left an enduring impact on the community. I look forward to the day when people will be able to see the Wayne Grisham Post Office and be reminded of the dedication of a true public servant.” Kellie Campbell, Wayne Grisham’s daughter, says that her father believed in public service and treating people with respect. “He loved when he could help people. He was always smiling, and always had a kind word,” said Campbell. “He took great pride in the work he did for the City of La Mirada, the State of California and the United States of America. My father was a genuinely sincere person with great integrity. We are all extremely humbled, and grateful for all that Congresswomen Sanchez has done on behalf of my father.” To see Congresswoman Sánchez speak on the House floor about Wayne Grisham, click here. Wayne Grisham grew up in Long Beach and valiantly served as a fighter pilot during World War II, receiving the Purple Heart award for his courageous service. After the war, Grisham graduated from Whittier College. Grisham then taught elementary school in Long Beach before he changed careers and opened a realty business in La Mirada, which he maintained for much of his life. Grisham began his career in public service in 1970 when he was elected to the La Mirada City Council. Grisham continued his public service with his election to Congress in 1978 and the California State Assembly in 1984. He also served as Director in Kenya for the Peace Corps. Wayne Grisham died in January 2011 at the age of 88. The bill now goes to the United States Senate for a vote. Congresswoman Sánchez hopes H.R. 2158 becomes law by the end of December. ###
12.12.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement in recognition of South East High School’s City Section Division II football championship. “I’m so proud of the Jaguars players—the City Section Division II football champions. Their hard work and dedication are why South East High School now has its first city football championship. Congratulations to Coach Derwin Henderson and his coaches on a great season that saw a 13-1 record and a 51-34 win over Marshall High School in the title game. “Special recognition goes to quarterback Jonathan Santos who threw for five touchdowns and ran for another in the come-from-behind win against Marshall. “To all of the players and coaches: your achievements make your school and community very proud. Go Jaguars!”
12.02.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today after the Labor Department reported that the economy added 120,000 new jobs in November and the unemployment rate dropped to 8.6% in November—the lowest unemployment rate since March 2009: “Today’s jobs report is a clear indication that our economy is moving in the right direction. Despite this progress, the unemployment rate continues to be unacceptably high. There is still much work to be done, but today’s news does show that the bold decisions made by the last Congress are paying off with more Americans returning to work. “I am hopeful that we can build on this momentum in Congress and make job creation our top priority. Republicans have wasted too much time and have failed to produce any serious job creation plan. I will continue to work hard on advancing policies that will help grow the economy, like extending the payroll tax cut. This common sense plan would help stimulate the economy and put money back in the pockets of 160 million Americans.” ###
11.30.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement regarding H.R. 3094, “The Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act.” H.R. 3094 would deny workers their right to a free and fair election to form a union by causing massive delays in union elections, encouraging frivolous litigation, and manipulating the election process. “This bill should be named the ‘Election Prevention Act’ because it’s designed to destroy 75 years of National Labor Review Board case law and deny workers their right to a free and fair union election. Simply put, this is an undemocratic bill that undermines our values. “This bill encourages corporations to stall NLRB elections while they mount a one-sided, anti-union campaign. We have a long-established process for workers to form a union and collectively bargain with employers. Unfortunately, this bill undermines this process which has brought workers all over this country a safe workplace and the fair wages and benefits they deserve. “I don’t understand why we are taking up yet another bill that does nothing to get our friends and neighbors back to work. We need to focus on lowering the unemployment rate and creating jobs—not taking away the rights of hardworking Americans.” ###
11.18.2011	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.) released the following statement today to announce her co-sponsorship of House Resolution 306, “Urging the Republic of Turkey to Safeguard its Christian Heritage and to Return Confiscated Church Properties”: “The freedom to worship and practice your religious faith is a right that should be protected and available to all. That is why I am proud to join fellow colleagues in calling on the Turkish government to right previous injustices and return confiscated religious sites to their rightful owners. “These sites hold special cultural and religious significance for the groups who lost them. As a signatory to the Declaration of Human Rights to provide religious rights, I hope that Turkey will return these sites to the appropriate parties so that they can be restored and preserved for future generations.” House Resolution 306 calls on the Turkish government to return confiscated Christian churches, schools, monasteries, hospitals, monuments, relics, holy sites and other religious properties to their rightful owners for preservation and restoration. ###
11.18.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today released the following statement regarding the Balanced Budget Amendment proposed by Republicans. This legislation would have required a super majority of Congress to raise federal revenues, effectively handcuffing Congress from solving budget concerns. “While I agree that we need to get the federal deficit under control, this Balanced Budget Amendment is the wrong way to do it. By requiring a super majority of both the House of Representatives and the Senate to agree on any bill which raises federal revenues, Republicans want to ensure gridlock in Washington. “The Republican majority is insisting that the only way the federal government can tackle its deficit is by cuts to vital programs which help people keep their heads above water during an economic downturn. The American people have said repeatedly that this policy is unacceptable. “I urge my colleagues to learn from my home state of California. California has tried this flawed plan, and it simply does not work. California’s fiscal situation becomes increasingly difficult each year because of this super majority requirement. Anyone who has witnessed California’s budget problems knows that we don’t want the same fate for our federal government.” Clickhere to see Congresswoman Sánchez speak on the House floor. ###
11.17.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.) joined U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Michael Bennet (D-Co.), and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-Pa.) to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to increase penalties for trafficking counterfeit drugs. The legislation responds to recommendations made by the U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator and the administration’s Counterfeit Pharmaceutical Inter-agency Working Group. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. While it is currently illegal to introduce counterfeit drugs into interstate commerce, the penalties are no different than those for the trafficking of other products, such as electronics or clothing. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will target violators that knowingly manufacture, sell or traffic counterfeit medicines to the United States. “As a mother, I want to know the medications my family is taking are authentic and, most importantly, safe. The American people deserve to have peace of mind when they use medications,” said Sánchez. “Unfortunately, massive counterfeit drug enterprises continue to exploit the Internet to jeopardize the public’s safety and rob American businesses of millions of dollars in revenue. This legislation not only holds criminals accountable, but it gives our law enforcement officers the ability to effectively go after counterfeit drug traffickers.” “While the manufacture and sale of any counterfeit product is a serious crime, counterfeit medication poses a grave danger to public health that warrants a harsher punishment,” said Leahy. “This legislation will raise those penalties to a level that meets the severity of the offense. Deterring this epidemic problem is a bipartisan effort.” “Counterfeit medicines are some of the most profitable commodities for criminal organizations. Purchases of counterfeit drugs by unsuspecting customers are growing at alarming rates, especially over the internet,” Grassley said. “These drugs present a serious threat to the health and safety of people around the world. It’s important we address this threat by imposing harsher penalties on criminals who counterfeit these medicines.” “Counterfeit pharmaceutical drugs are putting Coloradans at risk. In some cases the medicine you take may not be effective, in other cases it may make you ill, or worse,” Bennet said. “Right now, the penalties for producing a fake company logo on a bottle of counterfeit drugs are more severe than they are for actually making and selling a counterfeit drug. We can help prevent these drugs from reaching hospitals, pharmacies and consumers by giving law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes.” “Counterfeit drugs threaten the health of consumers and undermine American companies,” said Blumenthal. “This legislation will enhance the penalties for trafficking in these substances, helping us to crack down on the epidemic of illegal counterfeiting and ensure that our medicines remain safe and effective.” “These illegal, unregulated, uninspected drugs create a false sense of security among purchasers when in fact they can be extremely dangerous,” Meehan said. “Not only are they a threat to public health and safety, but as a prosecutor, I saw the hand of sophisticated criminal enterprises behind the operations. Steeper penalties will help deter these criminals from continuing to break our laws and put people’s lives at risk.” It has been reported that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities globally each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises. # # #
11.17.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Calif.) joined U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Michael Bennet (D-Co.), and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-Pa.) to introduce bipartisan, bicameral legislation to increase penalties for trafficking counterfeit drugs. The legislation responds to recommendations made by the U.S. Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator and the administration’s Counterfeit Pharmaceutical Inter-agency Working Group.The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will increase penalties for the trafficking of counterfeit drugs to reflect the severity of the crime and the harm to the public. While it is currently illegal to introduce counterfeit drugs into interstate commerce, the penalties are no different than those for the trafficking of other products, such as electronics or clothing. The Counterfeit Drug Penalty Enhancement Act will target violators that knowingly manufacture, sell or traffic counterfeit medicines to the United States. “As a mother, I want to know the medications my family is taking are authentic and, most importantly, safe. The American people deserve to have peace of mind when they use medications,” said Sánchez. “Unfortunately, massive counterfeit drug enterprises continue to exploit the Internet to jeopardize the public’s safety and rob American businesses of millions of dollars in revenue. This legislation not only holds criminals accountable, but it gives our law enforcement officers the ability to effectively go after counterfeit drug traffickers.” “While the manufacture and sale of any counterfeit product is a serious crime, counterfeit medication poses a grave danger to public health that warrants a harsher punishment,” said Leahy. “This legislation will raise those penalties to a level that meets the severity of the offense. Deterring this epidemic problem is a bipartisan effort.” “Counterfeit medicines are some of the most profitable commodities for criminal organizations. Purchases of counterfeit drugs by unsuspecting customers are growing at alarming rates, especially over the internet,” Grassley said. “These drugs present a serious threat to the health and safety of people around the world. It’s important we address this threat by imposing harsher penalties on criminals who counterfeit these medicines.” “Counterfeit pharmaceutical drugs are putting Coloradans at risk. In some cases the medicine you take may not be effective, in other cases it may make you ill, or worse,” Bennet said. “Right now, the penalties for producing a fake company logo on a bottle of counterfeit drugs are more severe than they are for actually making and selling a counterfeit drug. We can help prevent these drugs from reaching hospitals, pharmacies and consumers by giving law enforcement the tools they need to crack down on these crimes.” “Counterfeit drugs threaten the health of consumers and undermine American companies,” said Blumenthal. “This legislation will enhance the penalties for trafficking in these substances, helping us to crack down on the epidemic of illegal counterfeiting and ensure that our medicines remain safe and effective.” “These illegal, unregulated, uninspected drugs create a false sense of security among purchasers when in fact they can be extremely dangerous,” Meehan said. “Not only are they a threat to public health and safety, but as a prosecutor, I saw the hand of sophisticated criminal enterprises behind the operations. Steeper penalties will help deter these criminals from continuing to break our laws and put people’s lives at risk.” It has been reported that counterfeit drugs result in 100,000 fatalities globally each year, and account for an estimated $75 billion in annual revenue for criminal enterprises.
11.09.2011	Cerritos, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) continued her veterans’ outreach program on Tuesday and named Vietnam War veteran and Cerritos resident Tom Tislow as the 39th Congressional District’s “Veteran of the Month” for November 2011. Tom Tislow joined the U.S. Marine Corps in January 1966. After basic training, Mr. Tislow received jungle warfare training in the Panama Canal area and was deployed to Vietnam in April 1967. Tislow served with the 3rd Marine Division which conducted operations from helicopters aboard the USS Tripoli. He and his fellow Marines were flown in for more than twenty operations throughout northern South Vietnam and the Demilitarized Zone, providing reinforcements to armed forces units for several weeks at a time. Tislow returned from Vietnam in May 1968 and was honorably discharged in January 1969 with the rank of Sergeant. For his service and bravery, Mr. Tislow was awarded the Purple Heart, Presidential Unit Citation, Meritorious Unit Commendation, Combat Action Ribbon, Vietnam Service Medal with Four Stars, Vietnamese Campaign Medal, Vietnam Police Action Medal, two Vietnam Crosses of Gallantry, National Defense Service Medal, and Good Conduct Medal. “Mr. Tislow’s military service is inspiring, as his medals and commendations illustrate, and it is an honor to recognize his service to our country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We owe Mr. Tislow a huge debt of gratitude for the sacrifice and bravery he showed during the Vietnam War. It is my hope that someday we can give Vietnam veterans, like Mr. Tislow, the proper homecoming they deserved, but never received, by establishing an annual ‘National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.’” Mr. Tislow is an active member of Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post 1846 and the Friends of the 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, which supports the U.S. Marine Corps battalion at Camp Pendleton. He has also competed in marathons to raise money for various charities and organizations, including the Special Olympics, Semper Fi Fund, and the 1st Combat Engineer Battalion Memorial Fund. To see a picture of Mr. Tislow receiving his “Veteran of the Month” award, click here. ###
11.09.2011	Cerritos, CA - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today announced two pieces of important legislation designed to help America’s veterans struggling in the current economy. The “Vet Success Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3329) would help disabled veterans find good paying jobs through apprenticeships and training programs. A second bill introduced by Congresswoman Sánchez, H. R. 3330, would make home mortgages more affordable for veterans. “Our veterans have put their lives on the line to protect our freedoms,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Disabled veterans, especially, have paid a steep price serving our country, and we must ensure that our service men and women can return to productive civilian life and good paying jobs. We also owe it to our veterans to make mortgages more affordable, so that we can help prevent veteran homelessness. The least we can do is extend this mortgage program so that veterans can pursue the American Dream of homeownership.” The “Vet Success Enhancement Act of 2011” (H.R. 3329), would extend veterans’ eligibility for the Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment (VR&E) VetSuccess Program by three years. Currently, many veterans miss their window of opportunity to enroll in the VetSuccess program, which helps disabled veterans with rehabilitation as well as training that allows them to reenter the workforce. H.R. 3330 would extend the Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARMs) and Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgages through 2017. VA-backed ARMs and hybrid ARMs differ from conventional mortgages in that, if interest rates drop, veterans can save thousands of dollars in mortgage payments. Congresswoman Sánchez, who serves on the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, drafted these two bills after holding several meetings with her Veterans Advisory Council. Formed in August 2010, her Veterans Advisory Council is comprised of distinguished veterans from the 39th Congressional District who give Congresswoman Sánchez feedback on veterans issues. ###
11.08.2011	Chatsworth, CA – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today unveiled a creative plan to create jobs and promote American energy efficiency and independence by announcing the “American Microturbine Manufacturing and Clean Energy Deployment Act” (H.R. 3394). The recently introduced legislation would give producers of microturbine technology the same tax credits other renewable and fuel cell technologies receive. Microturbines are clean energy systems that provide a low-emission, uninterrupted power supply and help control energy costs. “This legislation builds on the great American tradition of innovation and manufacturing, but, most importantly, it will help our country create new high-paying jobs,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “On top of that, this bill helps promote investment in the clean energy economy and reduces air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. Microturbines produce efficient thermal energy and clean electrical power, and it’s about time that microturbine technology joins solar power and wind power in the national conversation for clean energy solutions.” The “American Microturbine Manufacturing and Clean Energy Deployment Act” would amend the current tax code to establish a 30% investment tax credit for microturbines, putting it on par with other renewable technologies. By advancing smart tax policy and smart regulations to help businesses expand and grow, H.R. 3394 would enable American microturbine producers to triple their domestic manufacturing. Industry experts estimate that this tax credit could create over 2,000 new jobs almost immediately. Additionally, enough new microturbines could be put into use during the first year of the tax credit to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 170,000 tons of Carbon Dioxide. Congresswoman Sánchez unveiled her clean energy jobs plan during a tour of Capstone Turbine Corporation’s facilities in Chatsworth, CA. Capstone manufactures low-emission microturbine systems, which are used by companies, hospitals, landfills, manufacturers, oil-and-gas sites and more across California and worldwide. “Capstone Turbine Corporation is the world’s leading manufacturer of clean microturbine energy systems. We are honored to host Congresswoman Sanchez at our factory today, and we applaud her support for American manufacturing, clean energy, and energy efficiency,” said Darren Jamison, President and CEO of Capstone Turbine Corporation. “H.R. 3394 will grow the domestic market for microturbines, which today are manufactured almost exclusively in the United States, but are sold predominantly overseas. If this bill passes, more American businesses will be able to generate their own electricity and thermal energy onsite, saving those businesses money but also strengthening energy security and reducing pollution.” Microturbines are an American-invented technology. 90% of the world’s microturbines are manufactured right in the United States. Additionally, microturbines can reach 90% energy efficiency. ###
11.04.2011	Congresswoman Linda Sanchez released the following statement after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 80,000 jobs in October and the unemployment rate dropped to 9 percent: “Today’s jobs report is a sign that our economy is moving in the right direction, and that the bold actions taken by the last Congress are working. It also makes it clear that Americans cannot afford to wait any longer for this Congress to act on job creation. We must act to put people back to work, strengthen our small businesses, repair our infrastructure, foster innovation and grow our economy. “After more than 300 day in office, House Republicans have failed to produce any serious job creation plan. I would encourage House Republicans to join Democrats in working towards putting Americans back to work by supporting House Democrats’ ‘Make it in America’ plan and President Obama’s American Jobs Act. These jobs plans would immediately create new jobs and help get the economy back on track. “Putting Americans back to work has to be the top priority for this Congress, period.” ###
10.25.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding President Obama’s remarks on Iraq: “I am pleased President Obama is taking decisive action in bringing all of our troops back from Iraq by the end of the year. I have long supported a timeline and benchmarks for our military commitment in Iraq and have consistently voted for a safe, orderly withdrawal of our troops. It is time, and Iraqi officials agree, for the Iraqi people to take responsibility for the future of their country. “I applaud President Obama for keeping his promise to end the war in Iraq, and I salute all of the brave men and women in uniform whose service make this withdrawal possible.”
10.20.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sanchez released the following statement today in response to the announcement by Congressman Dennis Cardoza (CA-18) that he will retire at the end of the 112th Congress. “During his 20 year career in elected office, Congressman Cardoza worked tirelessly on behalf of his constituents and California. Dennis brought a common sense approach to Congress, and he consistently reached across the aisle to work towards achieving bipartisan agreement on an array of issues. “His retirement is a great loss to Congress and the California congressional delegation. I thank him for his service to our country and wish him and his family the best.” ###
10.19.2011	Washington, DC – The Social Security Administration (SSA) today announced that Social Security beneficiaries will soon see their first Cost-Of-Living Adjustment (COLA) increase in two years. The 3.6% increase will go into effect in January of 2012 to help meet increasing consumer prices. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, who has worked tirelessly to save Social Security, issued the following statement: “I am pleased that our seniors will soon be getting some much needed relief after two long years. In the 39th District, there are nearly 50,000 Social Security beneficiaries who are 65 years-old or older. It has been difficult for them to make ends meet these past two years because costs for medical care, food, and housing have all risen. Social Security has always kept its promise in taking care of our seniors in retirement, and I applaud the Social Security Administration for taking this crucial action.” Social Security beneficiaries will receive a notice from SSA in mid-November regarding the COLA increase and their new benefit amounts for 2012. Nationwide, 55 million Americans rely on Social Security benefits, including 42.5 million senior citizens. Additionally, 4.8 million Californians depend on Social Security benefits. Social Security lifts 13 million elderly Americans out of poverty. Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leader in Congress in fighting to strengthen Social Security. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Sánchez joined her Democratic colleagues in writing to Speaker John Boehner opposing nearly $1.7 billion in cuts to SSA’s operating budget. Last Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced a resolution opposing Republican plans to privatize Social Security. ###
10.19.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that Cerritos College and El Camino College will receive a total of $2 million in funding through a Department of Labor grant. The grant—which Congresswoman Sánchez supported—was awarded to the California Manufacturers and Technology Association which will disburse funding to both community colleges for job training and worker certification programs. Cerritos College and El Camino College directly service California’s 39th Congressional District. “This vital funding will provide people with the skills and training they need so they can land well-paying jobs,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “In this economy, it is essential that we support programs that put Americans back to work and provide them with the tools so that they can effectively compete in a global economy.” This Technical Skills Training Grant will help fund the California IT & Advanced Manufacturing Career Pathways program. This training program provides certification and credentials in information technology and advanced manufacturing. The program will help current workers with career advancement, as well as provide unemployed workers with training necessary to land jobs in the fields of technology. The funds allotted to Cerritos College and El Camino College are part of an overall $5 million grant awarded to the California Manufacturers and Technology Association. The grant is estimated to help more than 2,500 program participants begin and complete education and training activities. It will also help more than 500 unemployed participants receive a degree or other type of credential to aid in employment placement. ###
10.13.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the pending release of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, who has been held in captivity in the Gaza Strip for more than five years. “It was with great joy that I heard that Staff Sergeant Shalit will be released after being held unjustly by Hamas for five years. His freedom will end a long nightmare for his family that began after he was captured during a cross-border raid. “I salute the Shalit family’s relentless efforts to secure his release and the role they played in the negotiations that will finally mean his freedom. My thoughts are with Gilad Shalit and his family. I hope that he is returned to them as soon as possible.” ###
10.07.2011	Washington, DC – In continuing her work to raise awareness for breast cancer prevention, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) entered a statement for the Congressional Record to recognize October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Below is a copy of the statement: Statement for the Congressional Record Honoring Breast Cancer Awareness Month Rep. Linda T. Sánchez October 6, 2011 Mr./Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize October as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. To raise awareness for breast cancer prevention, I want to stress the importance of regular mammograms and following recommended screening guidelines. Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed form of cancer in women worldwide. Every two minutes a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer in the U.S. alone. Every thirteen minutes, a woman dies of breast cancer. While these statistics are shocking, there is hope. The 2.5 million breast cancer survivors in the U.S. today have shown that early detection and timely treatment are the keys to fighting the disease. The five-year survival rate for women who are diagnosed at the early stage of the disease’s development has risen to 98 percent. It is undeniable that early detection saves lives. Unfortunately, despite what we already know, the number of women receiving regular mammograms has declined in the past ten years. A recent study discovered that fewer than 50 percent of women over the age of 40 with health insurance had received a recommended annual mammogram. This must change. In honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, I want to encourage women to follow the recommended screening guidelines. I hope this message reaches every woman, and together we can commit to ending breast cancer forever. ###
10.07.2011	Washington, DC – In continuing to fight to improve the economy, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) is proud to support the “Make It in America” plan by appearing in a new documentary. The “Make It In America” documentary was unveiled this week and highlights the House Democrats’ plan, which supports American manufacturing and creates jobs. “Congress must get to work putting people back to work,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “That has to be our priority now. ‘Make it in America’ will grow our economy and keep America number one in the global marketplace. ‘Make it in America’ fosters innovation by investing in education and research, and innovation translates into jobs.” The “Make It In America” agenda is designed to strengthen our nation’s manufacturing sector and make investments in infrastructure, education, and innovation which will grow the economy, create jobs, and boost working families. The House Democrats’ plan will create an environment that encourages businesses to innovate and make products in the U.S. and sell them to the world. To see the “Make It In America” documentary, click here. ###
10.04.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement honoring LGBT History Month. “October provides us with the opportunity to commemorate the pioneers and champions of the LGBT civil rights movement and celebrate their contributions to America’s history and culture. “As a country, we must remain committed to upholding the principles of equality and respect and dignity for all. The end of the discriminatory ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy and President Obama’s promise to no longer defend the Defense of Marriage Act, both represent significant progress for civil rights. However, there is still much more left to accomplish. “We must continue to strive to end discrimination in the workplace based on sexual orientation and fight so that all Americans have the right to marry and start families with those they love. I remain committed to supporting marriage equality, investments in HIV/AIDS care, treatment and research, and campaigns that take action against bullying in schools. “I hope Americans will join me this month in recognizing the achievements of LGBT Americans and renewing our commitment to civil rights, equality and progress for the LGBT community.” ###
09.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today in recognition of National Alzheimer’s Action Day. The Alzheimer’s Association designates September 21st as “National Alzheimer’s Action Day” to help raise awareness for Alzheimer’s research and care. “Today, I join the Alzheimer’s Association in encouraging all Americans to get educated about a devastating disease that afflicts millions of our friends and neighbors. There is no way to prevent, cure or even slow the progression of Alzheimer’s disease, and the American people, unfortunately, know too little about the disease. “As someone whose father suffers from this debilitating illness, I am acutely aware of the pain and hardship that Alzheimer’s inflicts on families. This is why I am committed to finding a cure and working my hardest on legislation that provides support for patients and their families. I hope that my colleagues can join me in supporting funding for education and outreach programs that promote public awareness and reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s disease. “Today is a great day to renew our efforts to fight for funding that supports research, care and services for those affected by this disease.” Alzheimer’s Disease affects more than 5.4 million Americans, and is the sixth (6th)leading cause of the death in the United States. ###
09.20.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement regarding “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” which barred gays and lesbians from openly serving in the U.S. military. The discriminatory policy ends today after it was implemented seventeen years ago. “‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ was both counterproductive to our nation’s security, as well as morally wrong. Today, we take the first step in healing the wounds caused by seventeen years of a damaging, discriminatory policy. “I am hopeful that our country can turn the page on this injustice and forever lay to rest the ignorant belief that loving one’s country is somehow based on whom you love. No longer will we jeopardize our military readiness or reduce our military’s recruiting pool because of a wrongheaded policy. “Gays and lesbians have always served our country with honor and distinction. I am gratified that we can now say to brave gay and lesbian service members that they can serve their country without hiding who they are.” ###
09.16.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today applauded President Obama for signing into law the “America Invents Act.” This bipartisan legislation paves the way to modernize the United Sates patent system and spark new innovation. “I am thrilled this day is here and President Obama has signed this long overdue bill into law. Since I came to Congress almost a decade ago, we have been working on substantive patent reform,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, member of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet. “The America Invents Act will help grow jobs and continue America’s leadership in the field of innovation. The America Invents Act is patent reform that works for American inventors and businesses and allows the U.S. to continue to out-innovate our global competitors.” The “America Invents Act” is the first major patent reform in over 60 years. The law will allow the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to meet the needs of American inventors, manufacturers and businesses by granting the PTO the ability to set fees independently of Congress. In addition to several changes to improve patent quality, the legislation also streamlines the patent examination process to better meet the need of inventors. The American Invents Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 304 to 117 in June and passed the Senate by a vote of 89-9 last week. ###
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement concerning the House passage of H.R.2587, which will weaken the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), make it easier for corporations to send American jobs overseas, and undermine collective bargaining rights. “This bill really is the ‘Job Outsourcers’ bill of rights,’ and it will stop job creation in its tracks. By limiting the action the National Labor Relations Board can take, this bill will ship jobs overseas and crush workers’ rights. “This bill also undermines collective bargaining rights, which makes zero sense to me. All workers in this country should have the ability to negotiate with their employer for salary and benefits. The ability to collectively bargain isn't something that costs one dime. “On top of these problems, this bill allows employers to punish employees for exercising their rights to join a union and demand safer working conditions. We should be focused on creating jobs and empowering workers, not making it easier for companies to ship American jobs overseas to countries with poor working conditions. “If we are truly serious about creating jobs in this country, Congress should realize that we need a strong NLRB. This bill is a bad idea, and I am firmly committed to continuing to work hard to create jobs and fight for legislation that helps hard working families.” ###
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the Legal Workforce Act, which the House Judiciary Committee began considering today. The Legal Workforce Act would require employers to use an electronic employment eligibility verification system (E-Verify) to establish the immigration status of employees. Bloomberg Government estimates that mandatory E-Verify will cost all employers $2.7 billion every year, and puts the bill for small businesses at $2.6 billion each year. “The Legal Workforce Act is the wrong bill at the wrong time. It costs too much and doesn’t help create jobs. The bill does nothing to detect unauthorized workers, is subject to misuse and fraud, and will cause U.S. citizens to lose their jobs. On top of that, inaccuracies in the electronic employment eligibility verification system would mistakenly flag millions of U.S. citizens and legal workers. “Enacting the E-Verify program would cost almost $3 billion a year and adds unnecessary red tape for employers and small businesses. If the Wall Street Journal slams a Republican bill as having ‘major economic costs at a time when the U.S. needs more investment and jobs,’ it’s the wrong bill. “We need to create jobs and support our small businesses. The Legal Workforce Act would achieve the exact opposite, because it’s too costly and unfairly hurts small businesses.” ###
09.15.2011	Washington, D.C. –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today released the following statement to commemorate the Hispanic Heritage Month which runs from September 15th to October 15th. “This month we celebrate and recognize the contributions Hispanic Americans have made to the history and culture of this country. Through their service in our armed forces, as elected officials, and as entrepreneurs creating and operating small businesses, Latinos continue to help this country thrive. “As the fastest growing minority group in the U.S., Latinos are facing unique challenges. As a member of Congress, I will continue to represent and work to meet the needs of the Latino community by supporting access to quality and affordable healthcare, the Dream Act and college tuition assistance. “I hope that Americans will join me this month in celebrating the contributions that Latinos have made to America’s rich history and heritage.” ###
09.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the U.S. Census Bureau’s annual report of income, poverty, and health care statistics. The Census Bureau is reporting 46.2 million Americans currently live in poverty, and real median income is now below $50,000 a year for the first time since 1996. “The number of people living below the poverty line in this country is simply unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Census Bureau’s report is a dire reminder that Congress should be focused on job creation. The report is alarming not only because nearly one in six Americans is living in poverty, but average incomes are down. Our top priority has to be getting Americans back to work. If we waste any more time, we could be looking at a high employment rate for years to come. I’m committed to working my hardest to make sure that doesn’t happen.” ###
09.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today released the following statement regarding the American Jobs Act, which President Obama delivered to Congress on Monday. The White House released a state-by-state analysis this week. “Job creation is our number one priority right now,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I applaud President Obama for putting forward a plan that creates jobs, strengthens small businesses, rebuilds America and grows our economy. “The President’s plan consists of ideas that have been supported by both Democrats and Republicans. There's no reason the Republican majority shouldn't bring the President's plan to the House floor for a vote. “More than a million unemployed Californians will be back at work under the President’s plan. On top of that, the American Jobs Act will make crucial investments in California’s infrastructure. “We must pass the American Jobs Act without further delay so that millions of Americans can get back to work." The American Jobs Act will cut the payroll tax in half to 3.1% for 710,000 firms in California. President Obama’s plan also includes almost $4 billion for immediate investments in transportation programs for California, which will support more than 51,000 new jobs. Additionally, $2.8 billion will be used for modernizing schools and preventing the layoffs of 36,600 teachers statewide. You can read more about how California will benefit under President Obama’s plan here. ###
08.10.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined with Congressman Mike Michaud (ME-02), Chairman of the House Trade Working Group, on Wednesday to praise the recent trade enforcement action undertaken by the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) regarding Guatemala’s failure to enforce its labor laws. The USTR is requesting the establishment of an arbitral panel under the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR). This is the first labor case the United States has ever brought under a trade agreement. “I applaud USTR’s action. The enforcement of labor provisions in our free trade agreements is critical to making sure American jobs don’t get shipped overseas,” said Michaud. “But the fact that this is the first enforcement action of its kind speaks to the work that still needs to be done to ensure our trade agreements don’t overlook the violation of international worker rights. This case with Guatemala underscores the need for our agreements to have clearly defined labor standards and a workable dispute settlement mechanism that leads to their timely enforcement. This particular dispute settlement has taken too long.”“I commend the USTR for holding Guatemala accountable for failing to keep its promises under CAFTA,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The U.S. is long overdue in enforcing labor laws our trade partners have agreed to uphold. These labor laws are crucial in places like Guatemala that have a history of serious anti-labor violence. The USTR’s action reinforces the need to include stronger worker protections in our trade agreements. If we don’t ensure that our trade partners are protecting workers from exploitation, we’ll see even more American jobs shipped overseas. American workers can’t compete for jobs with nations with weaker labor standards, because there is no fair competition.”The AFL-CIO in April 2008 filed a public submission alleging Guatemala’s government had failed to enforce its domestic labor laws and was not in compliance with the CAFTA-DR labor provisions. The U.S. Department of Labor issued a report confirming this was the case, leading the U.S. Trade Representative to launch labor consultations with Guatemala and creating the possibility for addressing the case through dispute settlement.Reps. Michaud, Sánchez, and 38 of their congressional colleagues wrote to Guatemala’s President Alvaro Colóm Caballeros in July 2009 urging him to live up to the CAFTA-DR agreement by taking all possible action to address the continued exploitation of Guatemalan workers. ###
07.29.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez today released the following statement highlighting the importance of Medicare on the 46th anniversary of the groundbreaking legislation being signed into law.“It is impossible to over-state the importance of Medicare, because it has been the difference between life and death for millions of Americans,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Before Medicare existed, life was not easy for people over 65. About half had health care coverage. A third of seniors lived below the poverty line. Seniors and people with disabilities now have health care security thanks to Medicare.”On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Johns on signed Medicare into law, which provides our seniors with secure health care and economic benefits.Today, this champion legislation is under attack. This past April, House Republicans passed legislation that would end Medicare and replace it with a voucher system which would require seniors to buy private insurance on their own.“Medicare is one of the most effective programs our government has ever created,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “We can’t break our promise to our seniors. I am firmly committed to fighting to protect seniors’ benefits and saving Medicare from Republican efforts to dismantle this vital program.” ###
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez voted against Speaker Boehner’s debt ceiling plan (S. 627). Congresswoman Sánchez released the following statement regarding the Speaker’s bill which does not adequately address the default crisis and would lead to drastic cuts in Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid.“Speaker Boehner’s bill is misguided and puts America at risk. The Speaker is asking for extraordinarily deep cuts to programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid—cuts that are unacceptable.“The Speaker’s plan could cause our country’s credit to be downgraded, sending interest rates skyrocketing, which would be a disastrous turn for our economy. Residents of California’s 39th District don’t deserve to see their credit card rates go through the roof and their mortgages spiral out of control because House Republicans want to hold the economy hostage so they can dismantle programs like Social Security and Medicare.“The Speaker’s short-term approach does not solve the long-term problem and brings us right back to another standoff in Congress in just a few months. Solving our financial crisis requires shared sacrifice, but the Republican plan asks nothing of the wealthiest 2% of Americans. This Republican approach is unbalanced, unrealistic, and unfair.“America’s working families deserve better than this.“I am hopeful that Speaker Boehner and House Republicans will join Democrats in supporting a balanced approach to deficit reduction that provides certainty to the economy.” ###
07.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives regarding the Colombia Free Trade Agreement and the negative impact it could have on working families. Congresswoman Sánchez’ remarks are below:“Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to rise this morning to address the House and the American people regarding the Colombia Free Trade Agreement and the negative impacts it will have on working families in the U.S., as well as Colombia.“Quite frankly, I am stumped as to why Congress is even considering this trade agreement. Colombia is the most dangerous place in the world to be a union worker. This year, 17 trade unionists were assassinated as of mid-June. Last year, 51 trade unionists were killed in Colombia.“As a Member of Congress, I have traveled to Colombia to see labor conditions there first-hand. We simply can’t afford to approve an FTA with a nation as unsafe as Colombia, which can’t even enforce its own laws.“Like many of my colleagues, I was glad to see that the Obama Administration negotiated a Labor Action Plan with the Colombian government. Both morally and economically, it is imperative that Colombia address some of the concerns regarding human and labor rights for workers.“The Administration says the Labor Action Plan has been met. The problem is that it doesn’t go nearly far enough!“Many of my colleagues might question whether labor conditions in a foreign company could really impact job prospects of their constituents. For years, American workers have been competing for jobs with nations with weaker labor and environmental standards.“Let me be blunt: if joining a union means putting your life on the line, there is no freedom, and there is no fair competition. Without fair competition, we’ll see even more American jobs shipped overseas. I think we can all agree that is the last thing our country needs right now!“Let me be clear: I am committed to trade. Trade can benefit our nation, our businesses, and our working families. I’m a member of President Obama’s Export Council. Our goal is to double American exports in five years—not export American jobs!“The fact of the matter is that the Colombia FTA doesn’t help American working families. It really benefits transnational corporations. These transnational corporations already repress Colombian workers. Nothing gets better for Colombian workers. They don’t get an equal share of the benefits of this Free Trade Agreement.“Why are we rushing to approve an agreement when workers in Colombia don’t want it? Even worse, once the agreement is in effect, the U.S. loses our most important leverage to see that the human rights situation improves in Colombia. So, I ask again: why the rush?“Congress should wait to see if Colombia institutes the Labor Action Plan as they promised. After that, we can determine if conditions for working families in Colombia actually improve. The Labor Action Plan is a good first step, but it won’t fix Colombia’s problems overnight. “You would hope that an international trade agreement would bring jobs with it. To give my colleagues some idea why there are problems with the Colombia FTA: the U.S. International Trade Commission doesn’t predict that the Colombia FTA would create jobs! The U.S. International Trade Commission always predicts lofty job creation numbers for trade agreements.“That alone should be evidence for my colleagues that now is not the time for the Colombia Free Trade Agreement! Congress should be focused on creating jobs, and this trade agreement doesn’t pass the smell test. Although the Colombia FTA does stink when you consider that it’s hard working middle class families who will pay the price with this unfair trade agreement.“The Colombia FTA will kill jobs, drive down American wages, and drive small American companies, who face unfair competition, out of business. We can do better! I urge my colleagues to stop settling for “not so bad” and pursue a trade policy that means prosperity for everyone. “ ###
07.01.2011	Congresswoman Vows to Fight to Save Medicare for Future Generations Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez released the following statement to commemorate the 45th anniversary of the implementation of Medicare. “Medicare is one of the most effective programs our government has ever created, and creating Medicare is at the top of the Democratic Party’s list of proud achievements,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Before Medicare, life was tough for Americans over 65. Just over half had health care coverage and almost a third of seniors lived below the poverty line. Medicare has provided health care security for seniors and people with disabilities. Today is a great day to remember just how much Medicare means in protecting our seniors.”On July 30, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law. The first Medicare enrollees entered the program on July 1, 1966. This past April, House Republicans passed a short-sighted and reckless budget that would end Medicare and replace it with a voucher system for seniors to buy private insurance on their own. This plan applies to all Americans now 55 years old and under, and the result of this budget would reduce benefits and raise costs for seniors.“’We have many difficult decisions to make regarding the budget, but we can’t break our promise to seniors” continued Congresswoman Sánchez. “The health and safety of our families should always come first. That’s why I reject the House Republican plan to end Medicare, and that’s why I will continue to fight to save Medicare for our seniors.” ###
07.01.2011	Congresswoman hosts La Mirada student for day to provide career guidance Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez this week hosted a Long Beach Job Corps student to provide career guidance as part of “Mentor a Job Corps Student Day.” Bonswi Sims, a student from La Mirada, spent a day in the Congresswoman’s District Office to experience how a Congressional office operates.“I am a big supporter of programs like these,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It was great to have Bonswi in the office so that she can see firsthand what a Congressional office does. I am always inspired when I meet with Job Corps students. Job Corps provides students with technical training and practical skills that will serve their students as they enter the workforce or continue their educations. These are the kinds of programs that deserve federal funding, and I will continue to fight for them in Washington.”As part of her day in the Congresswoman’s office, Bonswi took a tour of the district office, met the staff, and learned how the office operates. She also sat down with Congresswoman Sánchez to discuss her career aspirations. She did some office tasks, including identifying local news stories to be compiled in the daily news clips packet.“’Mentor a Job Corps Student Day’ is a wonderful way for our trainees to learn about the world of work,” said Sandy Annino, Long Beach Job Corps Center Business and Community Liaison. “It gives them the opportunity to practice their newly-acquired skills within a real work setting, ask questions, learn more about employer expectations, and see firsthand what a workday in the life of a busy legislator is like.” Bonswi says she plans on going to college to study child development. She says her ultimate dream job is would be in daycare.For a picture of Bonswi and Congresswoman Sánchez, click here. ###
06.28.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) issued this statement regarding today’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the DREAM Act.“I applaud the Senate for holding its first hearing on the DREAM Act and looking at this crucial piece of the overall immigration reform puzzle,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I would encourage the House Republican leadership to also address this important issue. We can’t continue to ignore our broken immigration system.“I proudly voted to support this common sense immigration reform in the last Congress,” Sánchez continued. “These hard-working students only want to give back to the country they call home. We should allow them the ability to contribute to our economic recovery or defend our nation. We are endangering our economic future by sending intelligent, hard-working young to countries they barely know with the knowledge and skills to economically compete with American businesses.” Congresswoman Sánchez has been a consistent advocate for the DREAM Act and was one of 216 Representatives to support its passage last Congress. This bi-partisan legislation will give children who grew up in our neighborhoods the opportunity to earn a pathway to legal residency.The DREAM Act is narrow, targeted legislation that has had broad support in the past including by the Pentagon, the University of California System, Catholic Charities, and numerous business groups, including the LA Area Chamber of Commerce. ###
06.24.2011	Washington, DC – In continuing her leadership role standing up for working families, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) is announcing legislation that would ensure home care workers get the wage protections they deserve. Congresswoman Sánchez yesterday introduced the Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act (H.R. 2341) which protects home care workers and improves direct care services for seniors and people with disabilities. “It is impossible to overstate the importance of direct care workers,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “They provide essential care and daily living services to more than 13 million elderly and disabled Americans. They care for our parents and grandparents, but we don’t guarantee home care workers the minimum wage. It is my hope that this bill corrects this injustice and helps improve the direction of direct care services.”The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act would ensure that home care workers receive the federal minimum wage and overtime protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Additionally, H.R. 2341 would improve federal and state data collection and oversight regarding the direct care workforce. The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act also establishes grant programs to help states improve direct care worker data collection, recruitment, retention, and training.“The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act will finally secure economic justice for home care workers, ensuring that quality care is available to the elderly and disabled citizens who depend on them,” said Leonila Vega, Executive Director of Direct Care Alliance. “The Direct Care Alliance fully supports this legislation and Congresswoman Sanchez’s efforts in Congress to stabilize America’s long-term care workforce.” “Homecare workers around this country are caring for older Americans and people with disabilities who want to live with dignity,” said L. Toni Lewis, MD, Chair of SEIU Healthcare. “Yet these same workers are being deprived of a similar dignity that comes with a good job that can feed and provide for a family. The Direct Care Job Quality Improvement Act is a tremendous step forward in delivering minimum wage and overtime protections.”The Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act is supported by more than fifty (50) organizations, including the Direct Care Alliance, AFL-CIO, AFSCME, SEIU, the Paraprofessional Healthcare Institute (PHI), and the National Employment Law Project (NELP). ###
06.24.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) voted yesterday to support H.R. 1249, the “America Invents Act.” This bipartisan legislation paves the way to modernize the United Sates patent system and help spark innovation.“I am proud to support this long overdue legislation. Since I came to Congress, we have been working to pass substantive patent reform that works for American inventors and businesses,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I believe this legislation will help grow jobs and continue America’s leadership in the field of innovation.”The “America Invents Act” is the first major patent reform in over 60 years. H.R. 1249 allows the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to meet the needs of American inventors, manufacturers and businesses by granting the PTO the ability to set fees independently of Congress. In addition to several changes to improve patent quality, the legislation also streamlines the process for patents to be examined.“While I believe there are areas – such as PTO funding – that can be improved, this legislation is an important step in strengthening our patent system,” Sánchez continued. “That’s why I am pleased to join colleagues in both parties to pass this reform.”The American Invents Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 304 to 117. A companion bill passed the Senate on March 8, 2011. ###
06.14.2011	Congresswoman introduces bill to rename La Mirada Post Office Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez introduced legislation (H.R. 2158) yesterday to honor the accomplishments of long-time civic leader and public servant, the Honorable Wayne Grisham by designating the U.S. Post Office located at 14901 Adelfa Drive, La Mirada, CA, as the “Wayne Grisham Post Office.” “Wayne left an indelible mark on the way we debate policies in our community,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Wayne believed politics should be civil, and his opponents would be the first one to tell you that Wayne was a true gentleman. As a member of La Mirada City Council, the California State Assembly, and Congress, Wayne’s dedication to the local community was truly remarkable. Naming a post office in his honor will remind us all of the dedication of a true public servant.” Wayne Grisham grew up in Long Beach and valiantly served as a fighter pilot during World War II, receiving the Purple Heart award for his courageous service. After the war, Grisham graduated from Whittier College. Grisham then taught elementary school in Long Beach before he changed careers and opened a realty business in La Mirada, which he maintained for much of his life. Grisham began his career in public service in 1970 when he was elected to the La Mirada City Council. Grisham continued his public service with his election to Congress in 1978 and the California State Assembly in 1984. He also served as Director in Kenya for the Peace Corps. Wayne Grisham died in January 2011 at the age of 88. Congresswoman Sánchez has received enthusiastic support for the legislation from the California congressional delegation and will work towards getting the bill approved by the entire Congress. ###
05.31.2011	Local Vietnam Veteran Calls on President to Designate National Day of Recognition Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today joined U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) to lead Senate and House colleagues of both parties in sending a letter to President Obama requesting that he designate March 29as “National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” This proclamation would honor Vietnam veterans each year on the date the last American combat forces withdrew from Vietnam, according to the terms of the Treaty of Paris. “We owe it to the brave men and women who honorably served our country to honor them for their sacrifice,” Congresswoman Sanchez said. “Unfortunately, many Vietnam veterans came home to harsh ridicule and criticism, instead of the warm embrace and the proper homecoming they deserved. As someone who has introduced ‘Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ legislation each Congress since I came to Washington, I hope that President Obama fixes this injustice and gives these veterans long overdue recognition by establishing an annual ‘National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.’” “Each and every American service member who sacrifices for our country deserves to be welcomed home by a grateful nation,” Senator Boxer said. “Establishing a national day of recognition for veterans of the Vietnam War will honor their service and show the deep gratitude our nation feels for these brave men and women.” In their letter, the Senators and Representatives point out that due to contentious public debate on U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, returning veterans were denied appropriate recognition for their service. They wrote, “A Presidential proclamation would officially designate a ‘National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ and ensure that all Americans remember and honor the service of these brave men and women.” Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has introduced a “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” resolution every Congress since she was elected in 2002. The resolution has always received broad bipartisan support. A Presidential proclamation declaring this a national day of observance would formalize this fitting tribute to these brave and honorable men and women. José Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier and founder of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day (WHVVD), has worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. Congresswoman Sánchez began her work to honor Vietnam veterans in 2003, following a meeting with Ramos. “The men and women who served with courage and dignity during the Vietnam War have waited patiently for the country they love, to honor their service,” said Ramos. “We failed to do this when they left Vietnam. We must not fail them again before they leave this world. The time to honor our Vietnam Veterans, Mr. President, is now, today.” In addition to Boxer and Sanchez, the letter is signed by Senators Max Baucus (D-MT), Richard Burr (R-NC), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Kent Conrad (D-ND), James M. Inhofe (R-OK), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Mark Udall (D-CO), Mike Johanns (R-NE), Mark Begich (D-AK), Scott P. Brown (R-MA), Joe Manchin III (D-WV), John Boozman (R-AR) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Representatives Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Michael Grimm (R-NY), Betty Sutton (D-OH), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), John Larson (D-CT), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Mark Critz (D-PA), Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Tim Bishop (D-NY), Shelley Berkley (D-NV), Jay Inslee (D-WA), Bob Filner (D-CA), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Joe Crowley (D-NY), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Charlie Gonzalez (D-TX), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Bill Owens (D-NY), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Peter Welch (D-VT), Tim Ryan (D-OH) and Mike Michaud (D-ME). The full text of the letter is below: May 26, 2011 The President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As Memorial Day approaches, we respectfully request that you designate March 29 as “National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” to honor members of the United States Armed Forces who served during the Vietnam War. We believe a designation at this time would be a fitting tribute to all who served during the Vietnam War, including the more than 58,000 Americans who gave their lives in service to our country. We appreciate your commitment to our veterans and your tireless work to ensure that our newest veterans receive the recognition, benefits and care they deserve from a grateful nation. But we must also remember the men and women who bravely and faithfully served during the Vietnam War. Upon their return home, Vietnam veterans were caught in the crossfire of public debate about our country’s involvement in the conflict. As a result, they were denied appropriate recognition and honor for their service. Over the past four years, Congress has worked to right this wrong and provide a proper homecoming for our Vietnam veterans. Beginning in 2007, bipartisan resolutions have passed unanimously in the House of Representatives and the Senate expressing support for the designation of a “National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” A Presidential proclamation would officially designate a “National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” and ensure that all Americans remember and honor the service of these brave men and women. We believe that March 29 would be an appropriate date for this observance because it marks the date that the United States completed the withdrawal of all combat troops from Vietnam. Vietnam veterans and their families deserve our gratitude for their countless sacrifices. In the words of President John F. Kennedy, “A nation reveals itself not only by the citizens it produces, but also by the citizens it honors, the citizens it remembers.” Designating March 29 as an annual “National Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” would be an important step toward recognizing our Vietnam veterans as the heroes they are and giving them a long overdue welcome home. Thank you for your attention to this important request. We look forward to your prompt reply. ###
05.11.2011	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) continued her commitment to listening to and addressing the concerns of her constituents by holding a telephone town hall meeting with more than 5,400 constituents. “Listening to constituents is the most important part of my job,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “There are some huge budget cuts being proposed in this Congress, and people want to know how these cuts will affect their day-to-day lives. They want to know if they will lose Social Security benefits and whether they’ll have to pay more for Medicare coverage. Having the chance to hear from constituents and their serious concerns strengthens my resolve to fight the reckless cuts Republicans are proposing.” During the Tuesday afternoon call, Congresswoman Sánchez spoke to residents from Cerritos, Lakewood, Whittier, South Gate, La Mirada, and Paramount about numerous topics, including Medicare, Social Security, health care, jobs, and the economy. Congresswoman Sánchez answered eleven constituent questions during the hour-long call. Seventy-five constituents who participated in the telephone townhall left voicemail questions, which Congresswoman Sánchez will answer. Congresswoman Sánchez plans to hold more telephone town halls throughout the year. ###
05.04.2011	Washington, DC– Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and House Democrats at a press conference to unveil the “Make It in America” agenda, which supports American manufacturing and creates jobs. Congresswoman Sánchez’ remarks are below. “‘Make it in America’ is about creating jobs. And creating jobs—in this country—should be the number one priority of this Congress. Innovation is the key to keeping America Number One. We can’t expect to stay competitive in the global marketplace without making American innovation a centerpiece of our playbook. And that’s what ‘Make it in America’ is all about. “Leader Pelosi and I may be a little biased toward our home state of California, which has always been at the forefront of innovation and high tech development. It wasn’t by accident. California invested in its future! Major breakthroughs in biomedical research happen in California labs. Odds are that any medical device you have comes from a California company. “’Make it in America’ uses this proven formula. Investing in education and research inspires innovation. Innovation and high tech advances equal job creation. In my district, Boeing builds C-17s at a plant in Long Beach. Almost 4,000 people there have a job thanks to high tech innovation. “For every job we create in research and development, we create four more jobs in other industries. That’s a math equation that works for the American people. That’s why I’m proud to join my colleagues in supporting ‘Make it in America.’” ###
05.02.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the death of Osama bin Laden, the mastermind behind the September 11th terror attacks against the United States: “No American will ever forget the pain of September 11th and the senseless attacks Osama bin Laden orchestrated on our nation. The death of Osama bin Laden is justice for the families of 3,000 innocent Americans killed on that terrible day. I commend President Obama for his leadership in the fight to defeat al Qaeda, and I salute the brave men and women in our military, as well as the intelligence community, for working tirelessly to track down bin Laden and bring him to justice.”
04.18.2011	Congresswoman introduces bill to help prevent bullying and harassment Washington, DC –On Friday, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez introduced bi-partisan legislation that helps ensure a safe learning environment at schools nationwide. The Safe Schools Improvement Act (H.R. 1648) would help provide schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and reduce the rising drop-out rate. “No student should ever be afraid to come to school because they are being intimidated by bullies,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Every student has the right to a safe and comfortable learning environment. Bullying is violent and destructive behavior and we have to stop treating it as a minor nuisance: it is a serious problem that damages a student’s academic progress, not to mention overall mental health.” The Safe Schools Improvement Act would require schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. This proposed legislation would ensure that schools protect students, whether they are being targeted based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, or any other basis. Congresswoman Sánchez introduced The Safe Schools Improvement Act in the previous two sessions of Congress. Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leader in advocating for safe schools for all students. Last month, Congresswoman Sánchez was invited to a White House conference on bullying prevention because of her leadership in Congress in pushing for anti-bullying legislation. In February, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” (H.R. 667). This legislation would allocate vital funding to high schools with high drop-out rates so those schools can hire additional counselors. Nationwide statistics indicate that 10% of high school dropouts cited bullying for quitting school. The Safe Schools Improvement Act has garnered support from broad range of organizations, including the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; the American Library Association; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the Human Rights Campaign; and the National Council of La Raza. ###
04.15.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez today issued the following statement on the passing of former Assemblyman and Cerritos College Trustee Bob Epple, who lost a long battle with leukemia: “I am saddened to hear of the passing of former Assemblyman Bob Epple. Bob dedicated himself to the community, both as a member of the California State Assembly and as a Cerritos College trustee. Because of his tireless efforts, it’s hard to think of Cerritos College without thinking of Bob Epple. I offer my deepest sympathies to his wife Colleen and his daughter Nicole as well as Bob’s many family members.”
04.06.2011	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez released the following statement in response to the fact sheets the White House issued regarding the U.S.-Colombia Trade Agreement and Action Plan. “It is a good first step that Colombia will reform its labor laws and begin to crack down on violence against union organizers. However, it is a first step that does not make it safe to be a union member or human rights advocate in Colombia. “Before Congress even considers a trade agreement with Colombia, Colombia must demonstrate that it is actually protecting labor unionists, human rights advocates, Afro-Colombians, and indigenous peoples. On top of that, the underlying Colombia Free Trade Agreement requires serious changes before it comes before Congress. “We have to protect the ability of American families to make decent wages and small businesses to compete fairly against global conglomerates. American families can’t afford to have their jobs shipped overseas to countries, like Colombia, where wages are kept oppressively low. “Simply put, this Colombia Free Trade Agreement is a bad deal for American workers, who deserve better.” Congresswoman Sánchez is a co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus. Congresswoman Sánchez also serves on President Obama’s Export Council. Last month, Congresswoman Sánchez joined Representatives George Miller, Jim McGovern, Rosa DeLauro, Michael Michaud, and Jan Schakowsky to write a letter and memo to President Obama laying out the labor standards Colombia must meet before Congress considers ratifying a free trade agreement with Colombia. ###
03.31.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today to honor the life and work of civil rights leader and labor organizer César Chávez. Today is the 84th anniversary of Chávez’ birthday. “I am proud to celebrate the life of a true pioneer and hero, César Chávez. He inspired a nation by organizing immigrant and minority farm workers to courageously fight for fair pay, fair benefits and fair working conditions. His legacy serves as a powerful reminder that every worker deserves to be treated with dignity and respect." “On a personal level, César Chávez’ work left a lasting impact on my family. As children, my brothers and sisters begged our mother to buy us grapes. Like Americans across the country, my mother refused to buy grapes in support of a grape pickers strike led by Chávez’ United Farm Workers Union. The United Farm Workers won their fight and I learned a great lesson: when workers come together to stand up for what is right, they can do powerful things.”
03.28.2011	Washington, DC— Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Gwen Moore (WI-4), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), and Linda Sánchez (CA-39) honored the memory of the 146 lives lost in the 1911 Triangle Factory Fire in New York City today, on the 100th anniversary of the tragedy. On March 25, 1911, a fire swept through the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory in lower Manhattan, engulfing the 8th, 9th, and 10th floors where young women worked tortuous hours for little pay. The panicked workers tried to flee from the blaze, but encountered locked doors, broken fire escapes, and empty elevator shafts. Of the 146 workers who died that day, 62 of them were driven by the growing flames to the windows, and jumped to their deaths on the streets below. Another 84 workers died inside the factory, unable to escape the flames. Among the witnesses to the tragedy was a young social worker named Frances Perkins, who dedicated her life to advocating for American workers and eventually became the first female Secretary of Labor. Her and a generation of progressives’ hard work in advancing protections for workers, coupled with the nation’s horror over the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire, paved the way for standardized safety regulations and helped to foster organized labor unions. “From the ashes of this catastrophe, and through Frances’s work and the support of a nation shocked into action, significant improvements in safety regulations and a strengthening of organized labor movements arose,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “People realized that government has an important role to play in ensuring the life, health, and dignity of workers, women, and families. The lessons of the Triangle fire are still critically important as we today tackle the fight for workers rights and protections in states like Wisconsin, Ohio, and Indiana. We must never forget the legacy of these young men and women, and understand the urgent need to provide protections and rights for all of America’s workers.” "As we mark this solemn anniversary and remember those lost in the Triangle Fire, we celebrate the movement it spurred - for worker safety, for better working conditions, for an end to exploitation of our workforce," Leader Pelosi said. "A century later, we must keep fighting for the rights of our workers to earn a living wage, provide for their families, have a voice at the bargaining table, and contribute to our prosperity." “Tragically, this disaster was the impetus for so many reforms – from establishing basic workplace safety standards to significant advances in the rights of workers and women,” Congresswoman Moore said. “Now, despite substantial progress made over the past one hundred years, we are still fighting to ensure that workers are safe as they perform their jobs and that they retain the right of collective bargaining so they can speak with one voice at the negotiating table.” “The tragedy of the Triangle fire is not just the deaths of 146 workers – mostly young women in their teens and early twenties – but the fact that those deaths were avoidable,” Congresswoman Schakowsky said. “What resulted from the tragedy, however, is nothing short of inspiring: the activism of surviving workers resulted in the passage of major worker protections – not just new fire safety laws, but laws against 7-day work weeks and child labor, the right to union representation, collective bargaining rights, and a voice at work. Today, we confront a coordinated effort led by Republican Governors around the country to roll back the hard fought gains that were won thanks to the organizing power of unions, workers and their supporters. The message remains clear, 100 years after the Triangle fire: we will not go back to the days when workers had no voice, no dignity and no safety.” “In marking this tragic anniversary, we should remember how far we have come in terms of advancing the rights of workers and of women,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Thanks to hard-fought reforms, workers today have safeguards to protect them from being exploited by their employers and recourse when minimum workplace safety standards are not met. A tragedy like the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire is especially important to remember today because many lawmakers in Washington and in the states want to peel back the rights of workers—if they succeed in their efforts, it just may take a repeat of this tragedy to remind us of the importance of the workers’ voice in the workplace.”
03.24.2011	Washington, DC – Continuing her leadership on investigating the long-term effects of head injuries, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez today sent a letter to House Judiciary Chairman Lamar Smith asking him to hold full Committee hearings on legal issues stemming from head injuries in professional sports. “For far too long, head injuries have been ignored and the long-tem effects swept under the rug,” Congresswoman Sánchez said.“The hearings the Judiciary Committee held last Congress brought much needed attention to traumatic brain injuries in football, resulting in changes to brain injury guidelines on the professional, college and high school levels. However, football is not the only sport where athletes face health risks. I am hopeful new hearings will shine a light on health concerns in other sports, and encourage similar changes to protect athletes on all levels. We also need to know how well leagues are caring for athletes who have already sustained irreparable harm.” In 2007, Congresswoman Sánchez chaired a hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law to examine if the NFL’s player disability plan was adequately serving former players, many of whom suffer from chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) as a result of multiple concussions. In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez participated in multiple hearings regarding head injuries and football, and grilled NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell over the league’s concussion awareness campaign. These hearings resulted in greater public awareness and changes to how football teams address player concussions on all levels of play. The full text of the letter is below. March 24, 2011 Chairman Lamar Smith 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Smith, I am writing to urge you to hold full Committee hearings on the legal issues related to head injuries in professional sports. In the 111th Congress, the Judiciary Committee held several important hearings into the “Legal Issues Relating to Football Head Injuries.” Those hearings brought public attention to the issue of traumatic brain injuries in sports, and resulted in positive and overdue changes to the brain injury guidelines governing professional, collegiate, and high school sports. Since those hearings, media reports have shown that the incidence of head injuries youth, collegiate, professional, and retired athletes is greater than previously believed. Additionally, more information has come to light that this problem is not limited to football players, but almost all athletes – including hockey, lacrosse, and soccer players both male and female. Studies have also revealed that these injuries have a real effect on brain development as well as overall health. It is clear that these head injuries have long been ignored, under-diagnosed and under-treated. While there have been some laudatory, voluntary steps by professional and amateur sports organizations, I believe it is appropriate for the Committee to return to this issue in light of new information. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to your convening of these hearings. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Member of Congress
03.21.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez has introduced legislation (H. Res 184) giving long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans by designating March 30, 2011 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” March 30 is intended to commemorate the day when the last U.S. combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. “When our troops returned from Vietnam after honorably serving our country, too many of them never received a proper homecoming,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Many returning veterans faced hostility, harsh ridicule, and criticism from the American public. We owe it to these veterans to honor them for their dedicated service to our country.” Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, has introduced this resolution every Congress since she was elected in 2002. “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” has received broad bipartisan support by the House of Representatives after Congresswoman Sánchez introduced it in the 108th, 109th, 110th, and 111th Congresses. Local veterans, in cooperation with Congresswoman Sánchez, host a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Celebration event annually in her district. The event helps honor and recognize the many Vietnam veterans who returned to the United States without receiving the formal “thank you” or “welcome home,” which returning service members in our nation traditionally receive. This year, the event will take place Sunday, March 27 in Whittier, CA at the California High School Football Field from 11:00am-6:00pm. For more information on this event, please call Congresswoman Sánchez’ district office at (562) 860-5050. Congresswoman Sánchez work to honor Vietnam veterans began in 2003, following a meeting with constituent Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA, who has worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans.
03.17.2011	Six Democratic members of the House, led by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and U.S. Rep. George Miller (D-CA) today issued a detailed memo to the Obama Administration outlining several necessary conditions before the President submits the Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) to the House for consideration. In an accompanying letter to President Obama, the Members write, “[a]t a time of economic uncertainty, with millions of families across our country struggling to support themselves, it is our responsibility as Members of Congress to do everything in our power to promote and protect American jobs. One of the most important ways we can safeguard the ability of American families to make a living and keep their jobs is by guaranteeing they are not in competition with workers in other countries whose wages are kept low not simply because their countries are poor, but because they lack the essential democratic rights that American workers have to improve their standards of living – the right to speak out, to protest, to organize unions, to bargain collectively and directly with their employers, and to freely support political efforts to improve their economic condition. Colombia, sadly, stands out as a country where wages are kept low and workers are repressed through widespread violence against employees trying to better their lot.” The memo outlines the Members’ concerns on issues including violence against trade unionists and other human rights defenders in Colombia, impunity and worker rights. It also outlines concrete, achievable measures that must be undertaken in Colombia before the Administration submits the FTA for Congressional consideration. In addition to Reps. McGovern and Miller, the memo was also signed by U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), U.S. Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME), U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and U.S. Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA).
03.17.2011	Members of Congress highlight what the Obama Administration isn’t saying about the deal WASHINGTON, DC – As the House Ways and Means Committee prepares to begin hearings on the pending free trade agreements, members of Congress spoke out today on Capitol Hill against the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, highlighting a number of issues that the Obama Administration isn’t talking about in its push to pass it. Chief among these concerns are that the deal opens the U.S. market to North Korean goods, would cost approximately 159,000 American jobs, would increase the U.S. trade deficit by more than $13 billion by 2015, makes it easier for China to avoid tariffs by transshipping goods through Korea, and would devastate the U.S. textile industry. In addition to bringing up the FTA’s flawed provisions on financial services, investment, and labor standards, members of Congress also highlighted the fact that the deal benefits the North Korean economy through the Kaesong Industrial Complex and the pass-through of North Korean goods into South Korea and then the U.S. And despite recently negotiated changes to the agreement, it would reduce U.S. auto and truck tariffs and increase Korean auto imports into the U.S. The Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement would also undermine the U.S. manufacturing sector, hurt the U.S. auto supply chain and open the door for Chinese auto parts to be used in U.S. and Korean cars. And, in its 2011 report, the U.S. Treasury identified South Korea as a currency manipulator. “The Korea FTA falls far short of where our trade policy should be to provide real benefits to America’s families. Instead, it’s one more item on the Wall Street Wish List that that the Republican leadership wants to ram through Congress. Wall Street loves the weak labor provisions in this Bush-negotiated agreement. It loves the investment provisions that provide incentives to build factories in Korea. We’ve seen what happens to the economy when Wall Street calls the shots, and we can’t afford to ship more jobs overseas with this bad trade agreement,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39), President’s Export Council and Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus. “What we need is a new trade model that truly benefits American workers and businesses. We don’t need any more tweaks around the edges and recycled talking points. This is a bad deal for our country, and the American people deserve to know the truth about this trade agreement and what it will mean for our economy, national security and the future of our manufacturing sector,” said Rep. Mike Michaud (ME-02), Chairman of the House Trade Working Group. “Our country’s working families have experienced first-hand the devastation these NAFTA-style agreements have caused over the last two decades. At a time when our economy is struggling to dig out of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, our nation’s workers cannot afford another race to the bottom trade agreement,” said Rep. George Miller (CA-07), Ranking Member, Education and Workforce Committee. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Ranking Member, Labor Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee, said: “The Korea Free Trade Agreement is another NAFTA-style free trade agreement that carries real risks for American workers and the U.S. economy by outsourcing more jobs, increasing our trade deficit, and giving China another country to funnel cheap products through in order to dump them on the U.S. market. Chinese products, from chicken to toys, have posed serious public health concerns, and we all know China’s unfair trade practices have cost American jobs. If we are serious about protecting American workers, creating jobs, and growing the economy, we simply cannot allow for another failed free trade agreement.” “It is likely that the United States would be opened up to North Korean goods under the agreement’s liberal rules of origin. If we are serious about denying North Korea the cash it needs to pursue its nefarious aims, we would ensure that this free trade agreement was clear, that no North Korean goods will be allowed into the United States,” said Congressman Brad Sherman (CA-27), the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism Nonproliferation and Trade. “Unfair trade deals have done enough economic damage already, and this one isn’t any better,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-07), Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. “Since NAFTA was enacted, the U.S. trade deficit with Canada and Mexico has risen by tens of billions of dollars and the United States has lost more than five million manufacturing jobs. This isn’t the time to push through NAFTA-style deals that make the situation worse – it’s time for an American manufacturing strategy that puts our own people back to work and builds a strong American brand again.” “Unfortunately, the Korea FTA is based on the same flawed trade model of NAFTA and CAFTA, and will undermine our manufacturing sector and open our markets to a flood of imports from countries like China that do not play by the rules,” said Rep. Betty Sutton (OH-13), Vice Chair of the Populist Caucus. “The 35 percent domestic content rule is paltry at best and will create an avenue for cheap products to crowd out our auto supply sector manufacturers, limiting their ability to compete on a level playing field. Korea is also a known currency manipulator and this deal does not address the issue, leaving them free to undervalue their currency to avoid the effects of tariff cuts outlined in the FTA. Americans deserve better and demand a new model for trade, one that works for both workers and businesses alike.” “The current Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement will wreak havoc on our domestic textile industry, rewarding companies that ship jobs overseas and inflating our ever growing trade deficit with communist China. I will do all I can to defeat this trade deal and work to save the jobs of the hardworking people of my district,” said Rep. Larry Kissell (NC-08), Co-Chair of Textile Caucus. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Chair of International Workers Rights Caucus, also attended the press conference in Washington today and stressed that the growing reliance of the U.S. on imports and a lack of industrial infrastructure has become a national security concern. She went on to say that the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement would further cripple the U.S. manufacturing sector, which has already lost 6 million jobs since 1998. Last month, Forbes reported that the continued erosion of the U.S. manufacturing base has gotten so serious that the Director of National Intelligence has begun preparation of a National Intelligence Estimate to assess the security implications of the decline of American manufacturing. # # #
03.15.2011	Washington, DC–Today, Reps. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD) and Tim Ryan (D-OH), who first challenged members of Congress who support the repeal of the Affordable Care Act to “walk the walk” and decline their taxpayer-subsidized health benefits in November 2010, introduced a resolution that would require all members of Congress to disclose whether they are enrolled in taxpayer-subsidized health care through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). The introduction of the FEHBP disclosure resolution comes on the heels of a motion by Rep. Crowley to add this requirement to the Rules Package for the 112th Congress earlier this year, which was unanimously opposed by Republicans. Similar to the personal financial disclosure requirement, this resolution would require members to report to the Clerk of the House whether or not they are enrolled in FEHBP – making the information publicly available. The resolution would require members to disclose their participation in FEHBP to the Clerk no later than 60 days after taking the oath of office or 15 days after the adoption of the resolution. In addition, members would be required to notify the clerk within 15 days of any changes they make to their participation in the health benefits program. “Based on all of their rhetoric, you would think that Republicans disapproved of taxpayer-funded health care,” said Rep. Sánchez. “They do – for millions of Americans who would struggle to get coverage, but not for themselves. If Republicans are truly proud of voting to repeal health care, they should be proud and decline their tax-payer funded health benefits. They should take it a step further and share their decision with the American people.” “It’s easy to spit out rhetoric, but it’s quite another thing to walk the walk. If Republicans wish to take away quality, affordable health care from Americans, then they should no longer be able to hide their benefits from the very public that subsidizes their own care,” said Rep. Crowley. “Taxpayers are our employer. They contribute to our health care coverage and they have the right to know if their representative in Congress is enrolled in taxpayer-subsidized health benefits. If Republicans are serious about their pledge to increase transparency and accountability in Congress, this resolution should receive unanimous support.” “Instead of focusing on creating jobs and strengthening the economy, the Republican majority continues to prioritize efforts to repeal and defund the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Edwards. “Republicans who work to deny millions of Americans the opportunity to obtain affordable, quality health care coverage forfeit the right to accept employer-subsidized FEHBP health insurance. I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this resolution to highlight the hypocrisy surrounding this issue and will continue fighting to protect the Affordable Care Act on behalf of American families.” “House Republicans want to have their cake and eat it too, and it’s time to hold them accountable,” said Rep. Ryan. “If Republicans truly believe in transparency and accountable, they should have no problem disclosing to their constituents whether they receive government-sponsored health care. Yet they’ve repeatedly voted against having to disclose this information. What are Republicans trying to hide?” “House Republican members seeking to repeal and defund the Affordable Care Act are guilty of a double standard,” said Ron Pollack, Families USA’s Executive Director. “They plan to take away from our families the same benefits and rights they intend to keep for themselves-courtesy of America’s taxpayers. It is enough to give hypocrisy a bad name.” Members of Congress, like all federal employees, have access to health insurance through their employer. The FEHB program provides federal employees with a range of private insurance plans from which they can choose the coverage plan that works best for them and their families. Federal employees, including members of Congress, pay premiums for the care they receive. The Affordable Care Act was designed to provide a similar structure for Americans who do not have access to affordable coverage to obtain insurance, such as many self-employed and small business employees. In January, Republicans voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act despite the fact that the majority of Americans oppose repeal of the law. Reps. Crowley, Sánchez, Edwards, and Ryan have led the charge in exposing Republican hypocrisy on the issue of healthcare. Last fall, the members led 61 House Democrats in letter to GOP Leadership calling on Republican members of Congress who support the repeal of the Affordable Care Act to “walk the walk” by declining their own taxpayer-subsidized health care and forgoing enrollment in FEHBP. Over 20 Republican members of Congress have since declined enrolling in FEHBP; however, the vast majority of these members have a back-up plan for securing health care coverage for them and their families, such as benefits offered through a previous employer, the Veterans Administration and state legislatures. To read the letter sent by the Members to Republican Leadership last year, please click here. ###
03.15.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today to recognize the Honorable Joseph Esquivel for his 39 years of public service to the people of Lakewood, California. “Joe made it his priority to make sure Lakewood is a safe, family-friendly, and thriving community in his time as Mayor and as a member of City Council,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Lakewood would not be the community it is today without his dedication and hard work.” To view the video clip of Congresswoman Sánchez speaking on the House floor, click here. Below is a copy of Congresswoman Sánchez’s statement for the Congressional Record: STATEMENT FOR THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD HONORING MAYOR JOSEPH ESQUIVEL Rep. Linda T. Sánchez March 15, 2011 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Honorable Joseph Esquivel for his 39 years of public service to the people of Lakewood, California. Joe began his service to Lakewood as a member of the Lakewood Recreation and Community Services Commission in 1972, and in 1990, began the first of his five terms on the Lakewood City Council. After 21 productive years of service on the Council, Joe is retiring from public service to spend more quality time with his family. Joe and his wife Pat have called Lakewood home since 1963, raising three wonderful children, and in the process becoming proud grandparents and great-grandparents. As an active leader in his community, Joe has had a hand in the founding of many local organizations such as the Lakewood Youth Hall of Fame. Joe continues to be a member of the Hall of Fame Board of Electors, charged with recognizing Lakewood’s young high school and collegiate standout athletes. Throughout his time on the City Council and as Mayor, Joe made it his priority to ensure Lakewood remains a safe, family-friendly, and thriving community. Joe was instrumental in bringing together the resources needed to make the Lakewood’s state-of-the-art Sheriff’s Station a reality and was integral to developing several crime prevention programs that have made our community safer. Over the past two decades, Joe has worked tirelessly to make certain Lakewood operates on firm financial footing and never outside its fiscal means. While the struggling economy has impacted many cities throughout Southern California, Lakewood has managed to maintain funding for all city services and capital improvement projects. In addition, Lakewood has managed to be a leading destination for businesses and new business development. Joe’s involvement in public service reaches far beyond the confines of the City’s Council Chamber. Joe is a dedicated member of Lakewood’s Rotary Club, having served for many years as the coordinator of the Rotary Club’s annual Project Shepherd holiday assistance program for families in need. Under his leadership, Project Shepherd aided hundreds of families each year with the help of volunteers of all ages from Lakewood schools, churches, and youth organizations. He was named Rotarian of the Year in 1995. One of his joys as a Lakewood resident was serving as a volunteer coach of 8- and-9-year-old youngsters in basketball and football at Bolivar Park. He received the Mayor’s Award for 11 consecutive seasons of volunteer coaching. He has held various leadership positions, including President of the California Contract Cities Association, President of the Greater Los Angeles County Vector Control District, and President of the Private Industry Council of Southeast Los Angeles County. Joe sits on the Lakewood Regional Medical Center and Lakewood Weingart Family YMCA Boards of Directors. As a Navy veteran, Joe has been a proud member of the American Legion Post 496 for the past 19 years. From one public servant to another, I praise Mayor Joseph Esquivel for his service and dedication to the City of Lakewood and the community. Lakewood would not be the community it is today without him. ###
03.11.2011	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez released the following statement after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake and devastating tsunami struck Japan. A tsunami warning has been issued across the Pacific Ocean, including California. “I send my heartfelt condolences to the people of Japan who have lost loved ones today, and I send my thoughts and prayers to those who are now dealing with the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Tsunami warnings have been issued for the West Coast, and I urge my fellow Californians to work with emergency personnel in taking the proper precautions to stay safe for when the tsunami reaches shore.” Constituents trying to obtain information about family members in Japan can contact Congresswoman Sánchez’s District Office at (562) 860-5050 for assistance. ###
03.10.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) joined President Barack Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, Education Secretary Arne Duncan, and Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius at the White House for a Conference on Bullying Prevention. Congresswoman Sánchez was invited to the conference because of her leadership in Congress in pushing for anti-bullying legislation. “For too long, we’ve looked at bullying as a nuisance or a rite of passage. Bullying is violent and destructive behavior and must be treated that way,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Students have the right to a safe and comfortable school environment, free from fear and intimidation. I’m glad that President Obama is taking an active role in bullying prevention, and I’m hopeful that we can pass legislation in Congress that protects students from bullying.” Since coming to Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez has made providing students with safe schools a priority. In the previous two sessions of Congress, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the Safe Schools Improvement Act that would help solve the dangers of bullying by requiring schools and school districts to ban bullying and harassment. This legislation would ensure that schools protect students, whether they are being targeted based on their race, gender, real or perceived sexual orientation, or any other basis. Congresswoman Sánchez plans to re-introduce this legislation shortly. Last month, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” (H.R. 667). This legislation would provide vital funding for high schools with high drop-out rates to hire additional counselors. Nationwide statistics indicate that 10% of high school dropouts cited bullying for quitting school. In March 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the “Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act,” which would allow schools to better implement bullying and gang prevention programs. These bills are part of the Congresswoman’s “Safe Kids Initiative,” designed to ensure that students are safe and supported at school so that they can obtain a quality education. ###
03.09.2011	Washington, DC –Congresswoman Linda Sánchez is pleased to announce her annual Congressional Arts Competition, also known as “An Artistic Discovery,” for high school students. “There are some extremely talented and creative students in our district,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “I look forward to this competition every year so that I can see the artistic gifts of our students. The competition is a great way to recognize the creativity of our students, and it brings needed attention to the importance of art in education.” The theme for the art competition is Colors of California. Students are encouraged to create images highlighting California’s natural and urban landscape. A panel of local art experts will review all entries and select category winners. Artists may create a piece specifically for the competition or submit a previously created work. The overall winner and one adult from their family will be flown for free to Washington, DC for a reception and ceremony with overall winners from around the nation. The winning artwork will be on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Congresswoman Sánchez will host a Congressional Arts Competition reception in the district on May 14, 2011. Student artists who submitted an entry will have their art on display to be viewed and recognized by the public. Category winners and overall winner will be announced and recognized for their achievements at this reception. Submissions must be from the 39th Congressional District of California to participate. Students from other congressional districts are strongly encouraged to contact their individual Member of Congress for information on his or her art competition. To locate a Member of Congress, please visit www.house.gov. Students can visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov or contact their High School Art Department for more information. The deadline to submit artwork to Congresswoman Sánchez’s district office in Cerritos is Friday, April 8, 2011 by 5:00pm PT. ###
03.01.2011	Washington, DC – On Monday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez introduced a House Resolution (H. Res. 117) honoring the life of Baseball Hall-of-Famer and Dodgers great, Edwin Donald “Duke” Snider. Snider passed away on Sunday February 27, 2011 at the age of 84. The Congresswoman released this statement following the introduction of the resolution: “I was such a big fan of Duke Snider,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As a baseball player, he brought so much joy to my family and Dodgers fans everywhere. The Dodgers won their first two World Series championships in large part because of his clutch play. Duke Snider was a special player during a very special time in baseball. Like all Dodgers fans, I send my deepest sympathies to his family.” Edwin Donald “Duke” Snider played 16 of his 18 Major League baseball seasons with the Dodgers franchise and was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1980. Snider had a lifetime batting average of .295 with 407 home runs and 1,333 runs batted in (RBIs). Duke Snider is the only player to have twice hit four home runs in the World Series and one of three National League players to have hit 40 or more home runs in five consecutive seasons. ###
02.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) joined Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN) at a press conference to address the potentially devastating consequences the Republican Spending Bill will have on the country’s ability to out-innovate and out-build our global competitors. “There is no question that the number one priority of this Congress should be jobs. And we should be creating jobs in this country, not watching helplessly as they continue to go overseas--jobs that we are losing to countries who understand the need to invest in the future. We can’t expect to be competitive in a global economy if we don't prioritize American innovation. “Innovation is the key to keeping America the world's economic leader. President Obama hit it right on the head: we must “out-innovate” the rest of the world. “Our economy is at a critical juncture. We can choose to make investments that encourage innovation and grow our economy. Or we can choose to ignore our most pressing needs, and continue to watch other countries create the world's jobs. “There is no doubt that fat can be trimmed from our budget. But, what Republicans are willing to cut will cost our children their chance at a secure job and a future. “Republicans want to cut $2.5 billion from the National Institutes of Health budget. They want to cut $1.4 billion in science and energy research towards clean energy. They want to cut 20,000 researchers supported by the National Science Foundation. Cuts in research and development, like these, will cripple our country’s ability to innovate and compete. “My home state of California has historically been at the forefront of innovation —not by accident, but because we chose to invest in our future. California labs continue to make major breakthroughs in biomedical research. No state has more medical device companies than California. California companies dominate the field in eye-care advances. “California is where we took huge leaps in aerospace. The space shuttle program took shape in California. In my district at a plant in Long Beach, Boeing builds C-17s, the workhorse of the Air Force. “If we cut investment in ingenuity, we risk losing our competitive edge forever. “As a member of the Intellectual Property Subcommittee, I know how important it is to protect innovative concepts that for centuries have fueled the success of American businesses. We must continue to protect and cultivate this inventive spirit. If we do, we can secure a prosperous future in manufacturing, high-tech, biomedical, and many other industries. “We have the hardest working people in the world, but the short-sighted cuts Republicans want to make threaten future job growth. We must foster opportunity, not kill it. “We have the blue print to return to the days when America meant innovation. We just have to follow it.” ###
02.14.2011	Congresswoman introduces bill for more high school counselors Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez introduced the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” (H.R. 667). This legislation would provide vital funding for high schools with high drop-out rates to hire additional counselors. “We owe it to students at risk to provide them with the resources they need to graduate high school,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It’s urgent that we place more counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. We can’t afford to leave millions of children behind--without access to a quality education—if their high schools don’t have the money for enough school counselors. ” The “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” would set up a competitive grant program focused on high schools with graduation rates of 60% or lower. Selected schools could then hire additional school counselors and expand counselor resources. These additional counselors would work intensively with students at risk, and set up a plan with parents, teachers, and employers to get these students on track to graduate high school. To prevent students at risk from falling through the cracks, the American School Counselor Association and the American Counseling Association both recommend a ratio of 250 students per counselor, with a lower ratio regarding students at risk. However, in California’s public schools, that average ratio is 900 students per counselor. With student populations between two and four thousand at many large Los Angeles-area high schools, additional personal attention and follow-up from professional counselors will help ensure our children don’t miss out on a quality education. “Seven thousand students drop out of high school every day,” continued Sánchez. “Professional school counselors can spot potential problems in a student’s academic career early on and address them before that student drops out of school because his or her problems are too overwhelming.” The National PTA, the American School Counselor Association, and the American Counseling Association have all announced their support for Congresswoman Sanchez’ “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act.” ###
02.10.2011	Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez met with Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to discuss VA department needs and address crucial issues facing the nation’s veterans. “Secretary Shinseki and I had a very constructive discussion about how to best continue our commitment to the brave men and women who have defended our country and our freedoms,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We owe it to our veterans to make sure they have the tools to succeed economically when they return from service.” “We also have a moral obligation to ensure they can easily receive the healthcare they need and the benefits they’ve earned,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I look forward to working with Secretary Shinseki to ensure we fulfill our promise to the men and women who have sacrificed so much to protect our country.” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez serves on the House Veteran’s Affairs Committee and is a member of the VA Subcommittee on Economic Opportunity. In August 2010, Congresswoman Sánchez established a Veterans Advisory Council for the 39th Congressional District so that local veterans could provide her with feedback on veteran’s issues. The Veterans Advisory Council also leads Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program which honors veterans in California’s 39th Congressional District.
02.08.2011	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez continued her monthly veterans’ outreach program and named Operation Desert Storm veteran Brian Moralez as the 39th Congressional District’s ”Veteran of the Month” for January 2011. Mr. Moralez was chosen by Congresswoman Sánchez’s Veterans Advisory Council. Brian Moralez joined the California National Guard as a Combat Engineer in 1986, later transferring into the 2668th Transportation Unit in 1990. Mr. Moralez was then transferred to the 101st Airborne Division and deployed to Operation Desert Storm. He returned to Southern California in 1993 and joined the American Legion, where he later became Commander of American Legion “Sunshine Acres” Post 477. Mr. Moralez has gone on to hold several officer positions with 19th District of the American Legion in Los Angeles County. “Mr. Moralez has a passion for public service that is inspirational,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Not only did he serve our country with his military service, but Mr. Moralez continues to make sure our veterans are recognized and supported. His involvement in the community is a great example for our younger generation to follow.” Mr. Moralez currently serves as the sergeant-at-arms of the Whittier County Sheriff’s Community Advisory Council. He is also a charter member and vice president of the Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day (WHVVD) in Whittier. For his community service, Mr. Moralez has received many awards, including Volunteer of the Year by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and Patriot of the Year by the Whittier County Community Coordinating Council. Mr. Moralez has five children and four grandchildren. He is also an avid antique car enthusiast. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact Mr. Jesse Cheng at Jesse.Cheng@mail.house.gov or (562) 860-5050.
02.08.2011	Washington, DC – On Wednesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez continued her monthly veterans’ outreach program and named retired U.S. Marine Corps Corporal Arthur (Art) Steinbroner as the 39th Congressional District’s ”Veteran of the Month” for December 2010. Mr. Steinbroner was chosen by Congresswoman Sánchez’ Veterans Advisory Council. Art Steinbroner is a World War II combat veteran who fought in the battle of Iwo Jima, which saw some of the fiercest fighting in the Pacific campaign of World War II. Mr. Steinbroner began his military career by enlisting in the U.S. Marine Corps in August 1943. After attending boot camp and receiving combat training in the San Diego area, Mr. Steinbroner was assigned to the 5th Amphibian Battalion and deployed to Saipan. Cpl. Steinbroner fought on the beaches of Iwo Jima for ten days during the initial assault on the island, which began on February 19, 1945. On April 28, 1945, Mr. Steinbroner was injured in an explosion that knocked him unconscious. Mr. Steinbroner was evacuated and later treated at the Naval Hospital in San Leandro, California. “I am honored to recognize Mr. Steinbroner’s heroism and devotion to our nation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The battle for Iwo Jima was won by the courage and heroics of troops like Corporal Art Steinbroner. It’s my hope that his courage inspires younger Americans to find ways to serve our country.” Mr. Steinbroner is now 85 years young, and flies a Marine Corps flag every day at his house. Mr. Steinbroner says he flies the flag to honor the heroes who did not come home from combat. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact Mr. Jesse Cheng at Jesse.Cheng@mail.house.gov or (562) 860-5050.
01.28.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Linda T. Sánchez announced her selection as the next ranking member for the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, replacing Representative Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). She released the following statement in response to her selection: “All of us who serve in Congress are given this privilege by those who elect us. In return, it is our duty to conduct ourselves and our official business in accordance within strict rules, so that the public trust is not violated,” said Rep. Linda T. Sánchez. “I recognize the important role this Committee plays in ensuring that the citizens' faith and confidence in their elected leaders is never in doubt. It is my goal to make certain that all who work in Congress do so in accordance with our system of rules, and that we remember that in order to protect and preserve our democracy, we must maintain these standards of conduct.” The Committee on Standards of Official Conduct provides advice and responds to questions from Members of Congress and staff regarding the laws, rules, and standards that govern their official conduct. “The American people have placed their faith, confidence, and trust in the representatives they elect, and it is up to each Member of Congress to live up to the highest standards of ethical conduct,” Leader Pelosi said. “Working with fellow Democrats devoted to integrity in public life, Congresswoman Sanchez will use her reputation for hard work, her dedication to fairness, and her willingness to take on tough tasks to ensure we uphold our commitment to ethics in the House." Rep. Sánchez also serves on the Judiciary and Veterans’ Affairs Committees. ###
01.26.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Linda T. Sánchez introduced a resolution that would declare February 7 – 11, 2009 “National School Counseling Week” in honor of the important role school counselors play in the lives of students all across the country. The bill is cosponsored by Reps. Madeline Bordallo (D-GU), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), David Loebsack (D-IA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Betty Sutton (D-OH), and Ed Towns (D-NY). “School counselors in my district work to ensure every child receives the out-of-class support they need to enter their classrooms ready and able to learn,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “They also help struggling students access the right resources and assistance to reach their full academic potential.” The average counselor-to-student ratio in America’s public schools is a mere one to 457, a ratio that means school counselors must work extremely hard to meet individual educational needs of students. Despite their limited supply, school counselors can identify potential problems early in a student’s career and make sure they are addressed before a student becomes overwhelmed and drops out. This is particularly important given the nation’s need to increase student performance nationwide. "School counselors are crucial in helping to improve the academic achievement of our students and to help prepare them for fulfilling lives after graduation," said Vanessa Gomez of Bayside Community Day School School, Moveno Valley, CA. "We applaud Rep. Linda Sánchez and the U.S. House of Representatives for their continued efforts to support the students of this country and to recognize school counselors for our contributions to student success." This resolution is part of Rep. Sánchez’ drive to make schools safer, to provide additional counseling and student support in low-income schools, and to increase academic achievement and graduation rates. The American School Counselor Association and the National Association for College Admissions Counseling support this legislation.
01.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) announced that she was reappointed to serve on the Judiciary Committee, and will sit on the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet, in the 112th Congress. She has also been appointed by Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD) to serve as a Senior Whip. “I am excited to continue my work on the Judiciary Committee and I look forward to my new responsibilities on the IP subcommittee,“ said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I know the committee will continue to play a critical role protecting our rights as citizens, ensuring the safety of our communities, and protecting the intellectual property of American businesses. I am also eager to work through the subcommittee to foster economic growth and job creation in vital California industries such as entertainment, manufacturing, and high tech as well as encouraging the innovation in medical research that has made California a world leader." Congresswoman Sánchez has served on the Judiciary Committee since her first term in Congress. As a member of the Intellectual Property Subcommittee she will work on copyright, patent, trademark law, information technology, and antitrust matters. She has previously served as Chairwoman of the Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee and a member of the Immigration Subcommittee and was a member of the Ways & Means Committee in the 111th Congress. Senior Whips are a group of select Members and Caucus opinion leaders who will meet once a week when Congress is in session. During these meetings, the Senior Whips have will discuss a forward-looking strategy regarding key issues facing the country. Senior Whips will also be responsible for discussing upcoming legislation with other members of the Caucus. “I am pleased to announce that Rep. Linda Sanchez will serve as a Senior Whip in the 112th Congress,” said Minority Whip Hoyer. “Rep. Sanchez has been a tireless advocate for working families, and she is going to bring their voices to the table. I look forward to working with her to advance Democrats’ priorities of job creation and strengthening the middle class.” “As a senior whip, I want to be sure we develop and push a jobs-focused agenda that will put people in our communities, California ,and across the nation back to work and ensure our businesses remain competitive globally,” continued Congresswoman. Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez was also selected to serve on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. As a member of this committee, she will work to strengthen our current veterans’ programs including health care, job training, education, and disability compensation. Congresswoman Sánchez added, “Veterans put their lives in danger for our safety. I want to make sure our brave men and women have the resources and support they deserve.” ###
01.24.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) reintroduced the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) Reimbursement Protection Act, which she previously introduced in the 110th and 111th Congresses. The Act helps states and localities obtain reimbursement for some of the costs of incarcerating individuals who are here illegally and are either changed with or convicted of a felony or two or more misdemeanors. “Securing our nation's borders is the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal government and the costs of housing criminal aliens awaiting trial shouldn’t fall on states and counties,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “At a time when the State of California and the cities in my district are facing budgetary crises, I call on my colleagues to support this effort to increase SCAAP funding so that my localities do not have to release suspects early or cut other crime prevention activities.” In 2003, the Department of Justice limited SCAAP payments, stipulating that states and localities could only be reimbursed for the cost of incarcerating a criminal alien if the individual is both charged with and convicted of a crime in the same year, but overlooked costs associated with holding a suspect before the actual conviction. This has made many of the costs associated with pre-trial detention ineligible for reimbursement. Rep. Sánchez continued, “In my home state of California, SCAAP reimbursements have fallen by almost half since the changes in 2003. This makes it more difficult for police departments to protect the public and fight crime.” The legislation is a result of conversations between Rep. Sánchez, law enforcement agencies, and their officers on how to fix this problem. Without this legislation, state and local budgets would be overwhelmed by costs that should be the federal government’s responsibility.
01.21.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) spoke with Dennis Muilenburg, CEO of Boeing Defense, Space & Security, about how to reverse the proposed 900 Boeing lay-offs in Long Beach. The Boeing C-17 manufacturing facility in Long Beach is an important component of the regional economy and currently employs 3,700 Southern California residents. “I have always been a strong supporter of the C-17 and proud that it is produced right here in Long Beach,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This facility provides thousands of well-paying manufacturing jobs that support many Southern California families, and I plan to work with Boeing, Congress, and the Obama Administration to prevent as many of these proposed lay-offs as possible.” While on the call with Mr. Muilenburg, Congresswoman Sánchez, who is a member of the President’s Export Council along with Boeing President and CEO W. James McNerney, offered her assistance in working with Congress and asked about several options that might help the plant remain operative, such as reforms to export controls and overseas promotion of the C-17. She also stressed the importance of these jobs to her constituents and the impact the job losses will have on the region. Muilenburg and Sánchez agreed to speak again soon and cooperate on efforts to avoid the planned lay-offs. “To get our economy back on track we need to grow our manufacturing industry, not let it shrink through lay-offs and plant closings,” continued Congresswoman Sánchez. “That is why I am committed to investing in education and infrastructure, to developing a long-term manufacturing strategy, and to ensuring that the Department of Commerce does all it can to help American businesses export their goods overseas.” The Boeing Globemaster III, commonly referred to as the C-17, is the workhorse of the Air Force and currently flies more than 70 percent of all U.S. airlift missions. Since its introduction in 1993, it has played a vital role in our national security and human relief efforts by delivering tanks, troops. and medical supplies across continents. Production of C-17s provides jobs not only at Boeing, but also at subcontractors and suppliers across the nation. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, the President’s Export Council announced Rep. Linda Sánchez as a member of the Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Services and Agriculture. The Council serves as an advisory committee to President Obama and the individual subcommittees provide insight to specific issue areas. “I know we can strengthen our economy and put Americans back to work if we make domestic investments in our manufacturing sector,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I look forward to working with Senator John Cornyn and the other members of the Subcommittee to present ideas that will reinvigorate our manufacturing base, strengthen our infrastructure, and bring high-wage, high-skill jobs back to this country.” The Subcommittee on Manufacturing, Services and Agriculture will focus on sector-specific policies to enhance U.S. exports. The Subcommittee will be able to explore ideas such a developing a long-term manufacturing strategy, how better to promote specific sectors of American products in various overseas markets, or how improved education and workforce policies could make particular market segments more competitive worldwide. “I believe that the work of the Manufacturing, Services, and Agriculture Subcommittee will be critical to achieving the President’s goal of doubling exports in five years,” the Congresswoman continued. Established by presidential executive order in 1973, the Council is composed of business executives, leaders in the labor and agriculture communities, Members of Congress, and officials from the executive branch, and reports to the President through the Secretary of Commerce. The subcommittees include: Manufacturing, Services and Agriculture; Small Business Engagement; Trade Promotion and Advocacy; Workforce Readiness; and Global Competitiveness. In addition to promoting exports to create American jobs, the Council works to strengthen our economy on the global stage and address trade-related challenges among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government communities.
12.17.2010	Legislation will help U.S. Customs Investigate Foreign Producers Evading U.S. Trade Rules Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez, along with Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC) and Mark Critz (D-PA), introduced the Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion (ENFORCE) Act. The bipartisan legislation is intended to eliminate schemes by foreign producers to evade payment of antidumping and countervailing duties. “Our US producers are being undermined by foreign competitors whose fraudulent schemes enable them to avoid paying the duties they owe,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “In order to keep American producers and businesses strong, and keep Americans working, this bill ensures that Customs will aggressively enforce anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders—putting those who would break our laws on notice that flouting U.S. laws will no longer be tolerated.” “Trade cheats who illegally dump goods in the U.S. are going to extraordinary lengths to continue to avoid playing by the rules,” said Congressman Walter B. Jones. “This bill would give U.S. companies the ability to compel the U.S. government to take action to stop these practices. It is long overdue.” “This legislation will help to protect American producers by imposing penalties on foreign competitors who violate U.S. laws on antidumping and countervailing duties,” said Congressman Mark S. Critz. “Giving American companies the ability to petition for an investigation of these unfair practices is a win for American producers and a win for American workers.” Antidumping duties are imposed when it is established that foreign goods are being sold (or “dumped”) in the U.S. at prices below the prices in the home market. Countervailing duties are imposed when foreign goods receive illegal subsidies that artificially hold down their prices. The duties are meant to even out these illegal practices so that American and foreign goods are competing on a more level playing field when it comes to prices. Those who work to evade these duties are not only skirting the law, they are harming U.S. businesses and killing jobs. The ENFORCE Act establishes procedures for investigating claims of evasion by foreign manufacturers. Domestic producers, for the first time ever, will be able to petition U.S. Customs and Border Protection to investigate possible antidumping and countervailing duty evasions. Once an investigation is initiated, CBP must make a preliminary and final determination about whether an importer is engaged in duty evasion. The legislation prescribes timelines, as well as enforcement and remedial measures for each determination. The legislation also authorizes $20,000,000 for the U.S. Customs to ensure ports with the highest volumes are sufficiently staffed and employees have the necessary expertise to prevent evasion of duties. Although not identical, the Enforcing Orders and Reducing Customs Evasion (ENFORCE) Act is closely related to Senator Ron Wyden’s bill, S. 3725, of the same name. A report produced by Senator Wyden’s staff on antidumping and countervailing duty evasion can be read here.
12.16.2010	Offers to assist President Obama with new trade and investment rules. Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (a Member of the Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee), along with several other Ways and Means members and Energy and Commerce Chairman Henry Waxman, sent a letter to President Obama offering assistance in developing the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement (TPP). The TPP presents the President’s first opportunity to put his own stamp on a free trade agreement, rather than simply advance agreements negotiated by the prior Administration. “Trade is an important piece of the economy that is vital to our economic recovery,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “But for too long, working Americans have seen NAFTA-style trade agreements shut down their workplaces ship their jobs overseas. We need to be sure that all Americans see and feel the benefits from trade, not just a narrow class of special interests.” The letter outlined many concerns with current investment rules and the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism in particular. Current investment rules provide broad rights to foreign investors that play a role in incentivizing the off-shoring jobs, opening American health and safety laws up to challenge in foreign tribunals, and leaving some American businesses at a disadvantage against their foreign counterparts. The practice of allowing foreign corporations to sue the U.S. government in international tribunals bypasses the well-established U.S. court system and can undermine state and national efforts to protect the environment. In other areas of international law, disputes are settled between nations, not between a nation and a foreign business concern. This discrepancy creates a concern that foreign businesses have greater rights than home-grown American businesses. The letter offered several ideas for improving the investment rules to level the playing field and better protect domestic policymaking. The authors hope the President will find the ideas worthy of consideration and that the letter will spark a fruitful discussion. Continued Rep. Sánchez, “I hope this letter encourages the Administration to reconsider the way trade has been approached in the past so that future agreements are a win-win proposition for American businesses and American workers. Trade should grow our economy without jeopardizing health, safety, and the environmental laws that protect our families from harm.” Further, there is little justification for the presence of investor-state dispute settlement mechanism in a free trade agreement between developed countries. Many countries meet international standards with respect to the rule of law and previous trade agreements with Australia and Canada provide relevant precedent for not including investor-state dispute settlement provisions. The letter was signed by Reps. Linda T. Sánchez, Henry Waxman (D-CA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), John Lewis (D-GA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Fortney “Pete” Stark (D-CA), and Danny K. Davis (D-IL). Rep. Linda T. Sánchez is a Member of the President’s Export Council.
12.16.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the National Alzheimer's Project Act: "I rise today to support S. 3036, the National Alzheimer’s Project Act. This bill would provide critical federal support and coordination to overcome the growing Alzheimer’s crisis. "Today, the effects of Alzheimer’s disease are devastating. An estimated 5.3 million people are living with the disease. We must act decisively, or the devastation of Alzheimer’s disease will grow far worse. Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and is the fastest growing of the 10 leading causes of death. In 2010, Medicare and Medicaid will spend $122 billion caring for people with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias "The National Alzheimer’s Project Act would establish an inter-agency advisory council to address the government’s efforts on Alzheimer’s research, care, institutional services, and home and community-based programs. It would also increase awareness, support, and outreach for those confronted with Alzheimer’s disease and for their families to help better equip our nation to face this disease. "To decrease health disparities, this bill will work to ensure the inclusion of ethnic and racial populations who are at higher risk for Alzheimer's or who are less likely to receive care in clinical, research, and service programs. "Legislation that advances a cure for Alzheimer’s disease is near and dear to my heart because of my father and the millions of others like him who live every day with this disease. "I urge my colleagues to support such a critical piece of legislation. It’s a monumental step forward in our battle against Alzheimer's and other dementias. Thank you."
12.16.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the vote to repeal the Don't Ask Don't Tell Policy:"I rise in strong support of repealing the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. "We have lived with the damaging effects of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” for 17 years. It harms our military readiness and reduces the recruiting pool for our military. This is why Secretary of Defense Gates, Admiral Mike Mullen, and a majority of service members support its repeal."This policy is both counterproductive and morally wrong."At a time when our armed forces need qualified, dedicated men and women in uniform, we shouldn’t be forcing them out just because they are gay or lesbian."Gay and lesbian men and women have served – and currently serve – our country with honor and distinction. They have laid to rest the ignorant belief that a love for one’s country is somehow based on who you love."I am proud to stand with them and support the brave gay and lesbian service members who ask for nothing more than a chance to serve their country without hiding who they are."I urge my colleagues to support this common-sense legislation that strengthens our military and our country and fulfills the promise of America as a place where all citizens, not just the politically popular ones, have equal rights."
12.09.2010	Votes to give immigrants brought here as children a path to legal status Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez proudly cast a vote in favor of the DREAM Act. This legislation, which passed with bipartisan support, will strengthen our communities and help grow our economy. “The DREAM Act is an important piece of the comprehensive immigration reform puzzle,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Instead of sending these intelligent, hard-working young people back to a country they barely know, we are giving them an opportunity to contribute here in America by joining the military or furthering their education.” This bi-partisan legislation will give children who grew up in our neighborhoods the opportunity to earn a pathway to legal residency. To be eligible an applicant must prove they: Reside in the U.S. and have lived here for at least 5 years prior to the DREAM Act becoming law Were brought to the U.S. when they were 15 years old or younger Are currently under age 30 Have graduated from a U.S. high school, obtained a GED, or have been admitted to an institution of higher education Are not inadmissible or deportable under certain immigration laws They must also: Provide biometric information and undergo a background check Undergo a medical examination to ensure they do not pose a health risk to the community Register for the Selective Service system, if appropriate After 5 years in conditional status, in order to remain in the country, participants must demonstrate that they have: Earned a degree from an institution of higher education; or Completed at least two years of post-secondary education in good standing towards a bachelor’s degree; or Served in the U.S. armed forces for at least two years and, if discharged, received an honorable discharge. The DREAM Act is narrow, targeted legislation that is supported by the Pentagon, the University of California System, Catholic Charities, and numerous business groups, including the LA Area Chamber of Commerce. It will allow our communities to get a fair return on the investment they have made into these young people. It is projected to reduce the federal deficit by over $1.4 billion over the next decade.
12.03.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding the deal reached today on the U.S. - South Korea Free Trade Agreement:"While I share the Administration's desire to increase our exports around the world, I was hoping my recent meeting with the President would convince him that this agreement needs improvements beyond auto and beef provisions. There are still fundamental flaws in the agreement, particularly with respect to the labor and investment chapters and textile tariff reductions. These provisions send jobs offshore and make it harder for American workers and companies to compete. Without changes to benefit working families in the 39th district of California, I cannot support this agreement."
12.02.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez proudly voted in favor of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010. This legislation will help the 540,000 children in Los Angeles County who live in poverty and the 3 million children across California using food and nutrition assistance programs have access to the fresh, quality foods they need in order to combat obesity, end hunger, and grow up healthy.In Los Angeles County alone, more than 587,000 children receive meals through the National School Lunch Program and over 275,000 students utilize the School Breakfast Program. “As a mother, I understand how important it is for kids to eat healthy, well-rounded meals,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Hunger and obesity among our children have reached unprecedented levels, but with this bill, more children will have access to fresher, better quality foods, in their homes, schools, and communities.”The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act (HHFKA) contains the most significant improvements to child nutrition programs in more than 30 years, including updates to the National School Lunch Program, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, and the Child and Adult Care Food Program.The nationwide problems of childhood hunger and obesity have gotten worse in recent years. The HHFKA is designed to address these problems by increasing access to child nutrition programs and improving the nutritional quality of meals. The legislation increases the reimbursement rate for school lunches for school districts that meet federal nutrition standards, connects more children with produce from local farms, and eases the application and certification processes so more children have access to these programs.
11.23.2010	(Washington, D.C.) –Today, Reps. Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD) and Tim Ryan (D-OH) along with 57 other House Democrats formally sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Speaker-elect John Boehner requesting an update on which Republican members and members-elect who have called for a repeal of the Affordable Care Act will decline their own taxpayer-subsidized health care. The letter is in response to a November 16 article in Politico, where it was reported that Rep.-elect Andy Harris (R-MD), who ran on a platform of repealing the Affordable Care Act, raised concerns during an orientation seminar over the gap in coverage he would incur when receiving his health care benefits through the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program (FEHBP). Harris questioned one of the many problems with America’s current health care system– coverage gaps. Most Americans also face a gap in coverage when changing jobs and that gap is often twice as long as the 28 days Harris and other members-elect will have to wait come January. Not to mention, millions of Americans find themselves without any health insurance for months or even years. This is exactly why Democrats have been so committed to improving our health care system in a way that provides families with stable access to health care. “For months, Republicans have been shoveling out hypocrisy and lies to the American public, and it ends here. It is time for Republicans to put their proverbial money where their mouth is – if they want to deny Americans access to health care, they should not accept taxpayer-subsidized care for themselves,” said Rep. Crowley. "Every American wants to provide their family with care and as the father of three, I can understand why Rep.-elect Harris was concerned about a lapse in coverage for a period of time. But, the harsh reality is that millions of Americans experience gaps in care for even longer periods of time – if they even have any coverage at all. And, that is exactly what the Affordable Care Act is about – giving all Americans access to care."“I have a 17 month-old baby boy and a family, so I can understand why Rep.-elect Harris was worried about not being covered. But there are millions of American families struggling to find and afford the coverage they need. That’s why we passed the Affordable Care Act that these Republicans are clamoring to repeal. I don't think it's too much to ask that people’s elected representatives live within the same bounds as those they seek to govern. Republicans did nothing for two years but work against health insurance reforms calling it government run health care. Now those same Republicans are reaping the very benefits they wish to deny all other Americans. That to me is the definition of hypocrisy and even worse, selfishness. And in these difficult times we need less selfishness and more selflessness,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Republican hypocrisy regarding the Affordable Care Act is astounding,” said Rep. Edwards. “Republicans vow to repeal health insurance reform that will provide quality and affordable health care for millions of Americans. Yet, they complain when faced with the possibility of a short gap in insurance coverage that other Americans face, many with no insurance coverage. All Americans deserve equal access to health care. If Republicans are willing to repeal coverage for millions of Americans, they have no right to accept employer-subsidized FEHBP health insurance or complain about the quality of coverage they are attempting to prevent others from having.”“House Republicans have spent the past year campaigning against the Affordable Care Act – spending hundreds of millions of dollars to vilify legislation that will positively and significantly impact the lives of 30 million Americans,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “Now that the campaign is over, Republicans are showing their true colors – insisting that they receive immediate access to the health care system that they were so quick to deny the average citizen. This is clearly a case of Pot v. Kettle, and the American people deserve better.”To see the letter, click here . The text of the letter sent to Senate Minority Leader McConnell and Speaker-elect Boehner and the names of the 61 House Democrats who support the letter are below:Dear Senator McConnell and Representative Boehner:We were surprised to read in Tuesday’s article “GOP frosh: Where’s My Health Care?” in Politico that some of your incoming members are unhappy with the health benefits they are eligible to purchase under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) – particularly the fact that there is a delay before benefits take effect. Ironically, this is the same predicament millions of Americans currently find themselves in.It is amazing that your members would complain about not having health care coverage for a few weeks, even after campaigning to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which will help provide coverage to millions of Americans who find themselves without health insurance for months or even years. We also find it interesting that members of the Republican conference would have no problem taking away health coverage from hard-working Americans, but expect expanded coverage for themselves and their families. The system set up by the Affordable Care Act will allow Americans to choose the plan that works best for them from a variety of private insurance plans, just like the FEHB program that members of Congress are now able to access. The uninsured, small-business employees, and the self-employed will now be able to benefit from this same choice and competition.It begs the question: how many members of the Republican conference will forgo the employer-subsidized FEHBP coverage and experience what so many Americans find themselves forced to face? If your conference wants to deny millions of Americans affordable health care, your members should walk that walk. You cannot enroll in the very kind of coverage that you want for yourselves, and then turn around and deny it to Americans who don't happen to be Members of Congress. We also want to note that in 2011, the Federal government will pay $10,503.48 of the premiums for each member of Congress with a family policy under the commonly-selected Blue Cross standard plan.It is important for the American people to know whether the members of Congress and members-elect who have called for the repeal of health insurance reform are going to stand by their opposition by opting out of the care available to them at the expense of hard-working taxpayers. We look forward to your response in the coming days about exactly how many of the members in the Republican conference will be declining their taxpayer-supported health benefits. Sincerely, Joeseph Crowley Linda Sánchez Donna Edwards Tim Ryan Gary Ackerman Joe Baca Timothy Bishop G.K. Butterfield Lois Capps Michael Capuano Donna Christensen Judy Chu Yvette Clarke Steve Cohen Gerald Connolly John Conyers, Jr. Elijah Cummings Diana DeGette Rosa DeLauro Keith Ellison Eliot Engel Anna Eshoo Bob Filner Marcia Fudge John Garamendi Charles Gonzalez Raul Grijalva Brian Higgins Rush Holt Michael Honda Steve Israel Jesse Jackson, Jr. Barbara Lee Sander Levin John Lewis Nita Lowey Edward Markey Betty McCollum Jim McDermott James McGovern Gregory Meeks Geroge Miller James Moran Richard Neal William Owens Chellie Pingree David Price Charles Rangel Laura Richardson Lucille Roybal-Allard Loretta Sanchez Janice Schakowsky Allyson Schwartz Jackie Speier Fortney Pete Stark Paul Tonko Edolphus Towns Chris Van Hollen Nydia Velazquez Anthony Weiner John Yarmuth
11.18.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Linda Sánchez, along with other members of the House Trade Working Group, visited the White House to discuss the U.S. - Korea Free Trade Agreement with President Obama. The free trade agreement was signed during the Bush Administration, but never sent to Congress for approval. President Obama announced in June that he would try to resolve lingering issues by the time of the next G-20 summit in November and present the deal to Congress shortly after the November elections. However, at the summit, President Obama announced that the Administration had been unable to reach an accord with Korea. “As a member of the President’s Export Council, I share his goal to double our exports in five years,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “That includes increasing our exports to the Republic of Korea, but accomplishing the goal will require stronger guarantees of workers’ rights; more market access for America’s textile, auto, and other manufacturers; and changes to the investor-rights provisions to prevent foreign corporations from challenging U.S. health, safety, and environmental laws in foreign tribunals.” While trade agreements can create jobs as they increase exports and help our economy recover, the George W. Bush negotiated Korea FTA follows the NAFTA model and fails to include adequate protections for workers, the environment, or food and product safety. Its investment chapter allows foreign corporations to challenge U.S. laws outside of U.S. courts and provides an incentive for U.S. corporations to send well-paying jobs off-shore. Further, this agreement prioritizes benefits to large multinational corporations – some of whom evade U.S. tax laws by establishing headquarters overseas – at the expense of millions of middle-class Americans.“I’m glad the President chose not to rush into an agreement with South Korea and instead took the time to hear from the House Trade Working Group. At a time when our economy is struggling to recover from the worst downturn since the Great Depression, advancing another NAFTA-style agreement—without significant improvements—will derail, rather than promote, our economic recovery.”In July, the House Trade Working Group sent a letter President Obama requesting a meeting to discuss the trade agreement. The agreement as originally drafted did little to rectify non-tariff barriers to the Korean market that many U.S. industries – including auto, beef, and textile – would face, even as their Korean counterparts would have received virtually total access to American markets.
11.10.2010	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez continued her monthly veterans’ outreach program and named retired U.S. Army Master Sergeant Robert Luckel of the City of Hawaiian Gardens as the 39th Congressional District’s ”Veteran of the Month.” Mr. Luckel was chosen by Congresswoman Sánchez’ Veterans Advisory Council. Robert Luckel, a World War II combat veteran, began his military career in 1940 by enlisting with the U.S. Army. While serving, he was assigned to a RECON division as Chief of Communications and did a tour of duty in the South Pacific. Mr. Luckel’s courage and heroism while in combat earned him many awards and medals, including the Bronze Star. He retired from the U.S. Army at the rank of Master Sergeant after 30 years of service. He also served as a reserve with the Army National Guard.“Mr. Luckel’s sacrifice to our nation cannot be overstated and I am pleased to honor him today,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The selfless devotion of America’s Greatest Generation is an inspiration to all Americans and I hope this recognition inspires younger Americans to consider how they might serve their country.” After World War II, Mr. Luckel moved to the City of Lakewood and eventually settled in Hawaiian Gardens, where he married his wife of 34 years, June. They had two daughters, Donna and Kathy, six grandsons, and fifteen great-grand children. Mr. Luckel is 94 years young and an active volunteer in his community. He is an active member of American Legion Post 496 of Long Beach and serves on its executive committee. He is also an annual participant in the City of Long Beach’s Veteran’s Day Parade, in which he drives his Trans Am convertible. Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, composed of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact Mr. Jamie Zamora at Jamie.zamora@mail.house.gov or (562) 860-5050.
10.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Linda Sanchez announced that 1,670 seniors in California’s 39th District have received the $250 ‘donut hole’ checks, according to new data. The checks were provided by the health reform law, to begin to close the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap. In total, these seniors in her district have received a total of $417,500 to help pay their high drug costs.Additionally, 5,130 seniors in the 39th District are expected to enter the donut hole before the end of 2010 and will also receive a $250 check to help with their prescription drug costs. By the end of the year, a total of 6,800 seniors in the district will have received $1.7 million in assistance to help cover the cost of their drugs.“The high cost of prescription drugs strains the finances of too many seniors,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “These checks are a down payment on reducing drug costs for seniors and eventually closing the Medicare Donut hole completely. I’m glad seniors are receiving a little extra help to buy the prescriptions they need to live happy and healthy lives in their golden years.”One of the immediate benefits of the health reform legislation is this assistance to seniors with high drug costs. This year, all seniors who have prescription drug expenses of $2,830 or more – and thereby enter the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap – are receiving a one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. In addition, under health reform, Medicare Part D donut hole benefits will increase beginning in January 2011, when all seniors who hit the donut hole receive a 50% discount on brand-name drugs, saving the average senior entering the donut hole more than $500 annually.
10.28.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez received a 100% Civil Rights Rating from The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights on its scorecard for the 111th Congress. The Leadership Conference is dedicated to promoting and protecting the civil and human rights of all people in the United States.“I’m proud to support legislation that promotes a more open and just society for all people,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “America prides itself on being the land of opportunity--to keep that dream alive, I am dedicated to working to promote and defend the important constitutional and moral principles of equality and justice for all.”The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights reviewed eighteen votes in the House of Representatives to determine its rankings this year. The legislative topics reviewed this year include economic recovery, hate crimes, healthcare, national defense, equal pay for equal work, and financial and mortgage reform.To see the full scorecard for the 111th Congress, visit: https://www.protectcivilrights.org/pdf/voting-record/leadership-conference-2010-voting-record.pdf
10.21.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez received a 100% rating from the Human Rights Campaign on its scorecard for the 111th Congress. The Human Rights Campaign is a civil rights organization seeking equality for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities.“I’m proud to support legislation that promotes equality and fair treatment for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender individuals,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Fairness and equality are important constitutional principles, and justice in America should not be determined by sexual orientation or gender identity any more than by color, race, religion, or national origin.”The Human Rights Campaign reviewed nine votes in the House of Representatives to determine its rankings this year. The legislative topics reviewed this year include hate crimes, healthcare, national defense, employment discrimination, and family reunification. To see the full scorecard for the 111th Congress, visit the Human Rights Campaign website here.
10.18.2010	Washington, DC–On Friday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez kicked off her new veterans’ outreach program by naming retired U.S. Army Sergeant E-5 Raymond Ramirez of the City of Whittier as the 39th Congressional District’s first “Veteran of the Month.” Mr. Ramirez is the first recipient of the award and was chosen by the newly created Veterans Advisory Council.Mr. Ramirez began his military career in 1964 when he enlisted with the U.S. Army and was immediately deployed to Vietnam. He was assigned to the 173rd Airborne Brigade, the first major ground combat unit of the U.S. Army to serve in Vietnam. Mr. Ramirez exhibited courage and heroism while in combat, earning him awards and medals including the Combat Infantry Badge and the Army Commendation Medal with “V” Device, 2nd Oak Leaf Cluster. His unit also received the Presidential Unit Citation (Navy) for assisting the U.S. Marines in the fall of 1966, and the U.S. Army Meritorious Unit Citation. Upon his return from Vietnam in June of 1967, he was assigned to the 1st Armored Division at Fort Hood, TX."Mr. Ramirez’ dedication to our country is inspiring and I was pleased to honor him today," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "It’s vitally important that we never forget the sacrifices made by our fighting men and women. I look forward to recognizing a new veteran each month."Later, Mr. Ramirez attended Rio Hondo College and California State University, Los Angeles. He then worked for several years in the defense industry and then the County of Los Angeles and the City of Commerce for over 25 years.He is currently an active member of the American Veterans Post 113 (Irwindale, CA) and the Association of the 173d Airborne Brigade, where he is the former President of the Western States, Chapter 10. Notably, he serves on the board of directors for the 173d Airborne Brigade National Memorial Foundation whose “sole mission” is to build a 173d Memorial “on a piece of American soil.”To honor Sergeant Ramirez’ hard work and dedication to his country, he was presented with a flag flown over the capitol in his name. The presentation took place at Congresswoman Sánchez’ Cerritos office Friday.Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program is coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council, comprised of distinguished veterans from across the district. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for their service overseas and here at home. For more information regarding the “Veteran of the Month Program” please contact Mr. Jamie Zamora at Jamie.zamora@mail.house.gov or (562) 860-5050. ###
10.14.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Linda Sánchez released the following statement regarding Judge Phillips’ decision on Don’t Ask Don’t Tell: "I applaud the ruling by Judge Phillips overturning the discriminatory "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. Love for one's country and the desire to serve in the armed forces does not depend upon one's sexual orientation--and our policies should recognize this truth. Since its implementation, DADT has harmed our military readiness and forced brave men and women to choose between serving their country and hiding who they are. Gay and lesbian men and women have served - and currently serve - our country honorably and should be able to continue to do so publicly."
09.29.2010	Washington, DC – Ways and Means Member Rep. Linda Sánchez gave a passionate speech on the House floor today in support of legislation that would allow the U.S. to impose duties on certain Chinese goods if China continues to undervalue its currency. The legislation, H.R. 2378, the "Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act," is the first of its kind to pass the House of Representatives and signals a mounting concern among U.S. lawmakers about China’s violation of its international obligations. View the speech here Rep. Linda Sánchez said, “When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, promises were made. We have held up our end of the bargain. China has not. Meanwhile, unfair Chinese imports caused small businesses across the country to close their doors, including one in my own district, Michel’s Furniture Store in Lynwood, California.” China has a long history of suppressing the value of its currency in order to boost its exports and make imports more expensive than they would be if China allowed its currency to be set by the market. That currency manipulation puts a drag on the U.S. economy and reduces our GDP by 1.4 percentage points annually. By forcing China to compete on an even playing field, U.S. manufacturers would be more competitive. Economists estimate that revaluation of China’s currency would create 500,000 manufacturing jobs here in the United States. “Opponents say this bill will start a trade war,” continued Sánchez. “I say, we’re already in a trade war, but China’s using cannons and we’re shooting BB-pellets. Some say, ‘Let’s wait.’ I say, we’ve waited long enough.” This legislation is part of the national “Make It in America” manufacturing strategy to create the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future—promoting American competitiveness, innovation, and exports. The “Make It in America” strategy also includes: o Providing hometown tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products and innovation overseas. o Closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to outsource U.S. jobs overseas. o Boosting incentives to create American clean energy jobs like making state-of-the-art wind turbines and solar panels–paid for by ending corporate welfare to Big Oil. o Strengthening rules that U.S. and its contractors buy products made in America, especially to build transportation, energy, and communications infrastructure. o Forcing China and other countries to honor international trade rules or lose American business. o Giving incentives to hire and re-train America’s returning veterans for new clean energy jobs. o Strengthening partnerships with businesses to retrain America’s workers for jobs of the future. o Creating a National Manufacturing Strategy so American business can better compete with nations who actively promote and support their manufacturing sector.
09.24.2010	Legislation will help hold China accountable, spur U.S. job growthWashington, DC – Ways and Means Member Rep. Linda Sánchez voted with her colleagues to approve legislation to address China’s fundamental undervaluation of its currency. H.R. 2378, a bill that would enable the Department of Commerce to impose duties to hold China accountable and enforce the rules of international trade, was passed by the Ways and Means Committee today and next week heads to the full House of Representatives for final approval.“This is the kind of legislation—addressing and combating the off-shoring of good American jobs—our hardworking families need right now,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “As a sponsor of the bill, I am enthusiastic that this will be the first of several steps to ensure that China abides by its commitments and stops unfairly enriching its economy at the expense of American business and labor.” Please click here to view a one-page summary of H.R. 2378 as amended.
09.24.2010	Washington, DC – During an immigration subcommittee hearing today, Rep. Linda Sánchez highlighted two important issues that are often wrongly united – high unemployment and undocumented people in the workforce – by asking TV Host Stephen Colbert how much he would have to get paid to work in the farms as a career. “After his experience working the fields, I asked Mr. Colbert hypothetically how much employers would have to pay him to be a farm worker as a career,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “His response showed that the reluctance of Americans to engage in seasonal migrant work is based on more than the wage offered. I think Mr. Colbert’s appearance today highlights the importance of this topic and I hope it brings about some better informed individuals.”Watch the video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8ZpxztnYzys&feature=plcp The Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law held a hearing entitled “Protecting America’s Harvest” to examine the American agricultural sector’s reliance on foreign workers to pick fruit and vegetables across America’s farms.“Not all agricultural workers in this country are covered by labor protections like workers compensation, minimum wage, overtime, or the right to organize,” continued Sánchez. “If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle really want labor wages to go up, they should be true advocates for labor reform to change this. Instead, they vote no on any legislation that tries to raise wages or protect workers.”Due to a diminishing supply of U.S. workers willing to perform manual migrant agricultural labor, agricultural employers have increasingly come to depend on foreign workers to meet their labor demands. Without these foreign workers, many American farms would likely go out of business, potentially causing a crippling ripple effect on our economy. This would lead directly to a larger reliance on imported food, thereby increasing our trade deficit and making us increasingly dependent on foreign countries for the health and safety of our national food supply. The hearing today explored labor needs in the agricultural sector, attempts to recruit U.S. workers for agricultural labor, the lack of reliable and efficient avenues to legally hire foreign workers, and potential solutions.
09.22.2010	Washington, DC –Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announces that starting September 23, a slate of key patient rights and protections begins to take effect for the American people. “This new “Patient’s Bill of Rights” is designed to put you and your doctor – not the health insurance companies -- back in charge of your health care. After decades of insurance company abuses, this “Patient’s Bill of Rights” will help restore peace of mind to Americans worried about their health care. “Up until now, insurance companies have often left patients without coverage when they needed it most -- causing them to put off needed care or going deep into debt to pay for it. Too often, insurance companies have put insurance company bureaucrats between you and your doctor. “The Patients’ Bill of Rights outlaws some of the most egregious practices of the insurance industry, while providing the stability and flexibility that families need to make the choices that work best for them. “These reforms will improve the health coverage people get through their employers and individual health insurance policies they buy from insurers.” Here is what the Patient’s Bill of Rights will mean for you: Up Until Now: Insurance companies were able to retroactively cancel your policy when you became sick, if you or your employer had made an unintentional—and even unrelated—mistake on your paperwork.Under Reform: The new law prohibits insurance plans from rescinding your coverage when you get sick, except in cases of fraud or an intentional misrepresentation of facts. (Applies to all insurance plans.) Up Until Now: Every year, thousands of families have been denied insurance for their children just because they were born with a health condition or they have become sick.Under Reform: The new law prohibits insurance plans both from denying coverage and limiting benefits for children based on a pre-existing condition. (Applies to all employer plans and new individual plans.) Up Until Now: Over 100 million Americans have been enrolled in insurance plans that impose lifetime limits on coverage – meaning when a catastrophic illness strikes, many were faced with massive debt and even bankruptcy.Under Reform: The new law outlaws lifetime limits; no longer will a family go broke or lose their home just because a loved one has an accident or becomes seriously ill. (Applies to all insurance plans.) Up Until Now: Even more aggressive than lifetime limits are annual dollar limits on what an insurance company will pay for health care. The insurance plans of millions of Americans have had such annual limits.Under Reform: The new law phases out the use of annual limits; ensuring that the coverage of hundreds of thousands of Americans will no longer be cut off right when they need it most. (Applies to all employer plans and new individual plans.) Up Until Now: Most insurance companies did not allow parents to keep their young adult children on their plan even though many young adults do not receive employer-sponsored health care and do not make enough to purchase it in the individual market.Under Reform: The new law requires insurance plans that offer family coverage to allow young people up to their 26th birthday to remain on their parents’ insurance plan, at the parent’s choice. (Applies to young people who do not have access to their own employer-sponsored coverage.) Up Until Now: Insurance companies didn’t always make it easy to see the doctor you choose.Under Reform: Patients are guaranteed their choice of primary care doctor within their plan’s network of doctors, including OB-GYNs and pediatricians without a referral. (Applies to new plans.) Up Until Now: Each year, thousands of Americans have gotten hit with exorbitant charges from their insurance company when they got sick or injured when they were away from home and used an out-of-network emergency room.Under Reform: Under the new law, insurance plans will not be able to charge higher cost-sharing for emergency services that are obtained out of a plan’s network. (Applies to new plans.) Up Until Now: Millions of Americans did not have the right under their insurance plan to have an “external appeal” of insurance company decisions.Under Reform: The new law prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage for needed care without a chance to appeal to an independent third party. (Applies to new plans.) All of these provisions take effect for the next plan year starting on or after today. That means that they’ll be in effect during your next open season in your employer plan or the next time you re-enroll in or purchase a policy from an insurer. Many of these reforms will be expanded over time. For example, once the Exchanges come into operation in 2014, the prohibition against denying coverage for pre-existing conditions for children will be extended to adults and annual limits on coverage will be prohibited. Starting next year, insurance companies will be required to put more of your premium dollars into health care, and less into their profit margins and CEO pay. Opponents of health care reform would repeal the law and take away these important consumer protections. To learn more about these provisions and other ways that health reform will help you, please visit www.healthcare.gov.
09.22.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez Honored for Improving Lives of Working Families Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez, a working mom, was named “Best of Congress,” for working families by Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families. Sánchez received the “Best of Congress” award today after a review of her voting record, legislative record, advocacy for children and families, and office policies. “It’s an honor to be recognized for my efforts on behalf of working families. But, like any working mom across the country, I understand what it is like to juggle the demands of kids, work, family, and laundry all at the same time!” The Award spotlights Congressional excellence in supporting working families through legislation and advocacy. Equally important, it also recognizes those members of Congress who practice what they preach – employing family-friendly policies in their own offices. “As Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, working families are my number one priority,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I know there are moms and dads who have no flexibility in the demands of their jobs – like the waitress who can’t miss a shift even if her child is sick at home. Policies that help make our lives a little easier are good for our families, our businesses, and ultimately, our economy.” Recipients of the Best of Congress Award are featured in the August/September 2010 issue of Working Mother magazine and at www.workingmother.com. “The recipients of the Best of Congress Award serve as models for what can be accomplished through legislation and a personal commitment to policies that benefit working families,” Donna Klein, CEO and Executive Chair of Corporate Voices, said. “As our nation continues to face a number of economic and other issues involving working families, these members of Congress deserve to be congratulated and recognized nationally for their leadership, advocacy and support of best-practice family-friendly workforce policies.” “Not only did we judge the esteemed members on their voting records for supporting working families, we also examined the benefits that their own employees receive like paid leave and flextime,” Carol Evans, CEO, Working Mother Media, said. “There are no rules about flextime or paid leave for Congressional staff. They are stepping up voluntarily because they believe in progressive policies and act on their beliefs in the real world managing their staff.” Recipients of the 2010 Best of Congress Award are: U.S. Senate · Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) · Robert Casey (D-Pennsylvania) · Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) · Christopher Dodd (D-Connecticut) · Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) · Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) · Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia) · Herb Kohl (D-Wisconsin) · Patty Murray (D-Washington) · Arlen Specter (D-Pennsylvania) U.S. House of Representatives · Linda Sánchez (D-California) · Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisconsin) · Russ Carnahan (D-Missouri) · Susan Davis (D-California) · Rosa DeLauro (D-Connecticut) · Mary Fallin (R-Oklahoma) · Chaka Fattah (D-Pennsylvania) · Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona) · John Lewis (D-Georgia) · Carolyn Maloney (D-New York) · Carolyn McCarthy (D-New York) · Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Washington) · Erik Paulsen (R-Minnesota) · Dave Reichert (R-Washington) · Peter Roskam (R-Illinois) · C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) · Allyson Schwartz (D-Pennsylvania) · Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Florida) · Lynn Woolsey (D-California) · John Yarmuth (D-Kentucky) ###
09.20.2010	Washington, DC –In recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) has an important message for the Latino community, urging Latinos to get an annual diabetic eye exam to prevent vision loss from diabetes. The message, released in a new public service announcement produced in conjunction with the American Academy of Ophthalmology’s EyeSmart campaign and EyeCare America were recorded in both Spanish and English and will air on several television stations across the U.S. “If you’re living with diabetes, it’s vitally important to get a diabetic eye exam every year, because once your vision is gone, it won’t come back,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. Last year alone, 24,000 Americans were permanently blinded as a result of diabetes and the latest research indicates Latinos face a greater risk of blindness than other ethnic groups. The good news is 90 percent of diabetic eye disease can be prevented simply by proper regular examinations and treatment and by controlling blood sugar. The 30-second PSA can be viewed here. The public can visit www.GetEyeSmart.org and commit to taking control of their diabetes and protecting their vision. To find an Eye M.D. in your area, please visit www.GetEyeSmart.org. Consumers can submit questions about eye health to an ophthalmologist at https://www.geteyesmart.org/eyesmart/ask/
09.17.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the President’s Export Council (PEC) met with President Barack Obama in the White House East Room yesterday to discuss the Administration's ongoing commitment to export promotion. The White House also released a report to the President on the National Export Initiative (NEI). Council members discussed the strategies necessary to achieve the President’s goal of doubling exports in the next five years and reached consensus on encouraging the President to reform and update the export control program; do more to promote tourism, including simplifying the process of obtaining tourist visas in certain trusted countries; and increase efforts to retrain returning veterans for employment in high wage, high skill jobs. When the discussion turned to promoting the pending free trade agreements negotiated by the former Administration, Rep. Sánchez cautioned against advancing the agreements before negotiating significant improvements. “As a Member of the President’s Export Council, I recognize that done right, trade agreements can create jobs, increase exports, and help our economy recover,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Done wrong, however, trade agreements send those same jobs off-shore, benefitting a narrow class of investors while leaving American working families behind.” Sánchez added: “The private-sector members of the PEC encouraged the President to move forward quickly on the pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama. But before sending Congress the agreements for approval, I recommend he work to renegotiate them to ensure their benefits can be shared by average Americans as well as multinational corporations.” The PEC voted to send the President letters with its recommendations on each of the four topics. In addition, Senators Brown and Stabenow, and Representatives Sánchez, Wu, and Schauer gave President Obama a letter sharing their differing views on the pending Free Trade Agreements. The PEC will next meet on December 9, 2010. Full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We applaud your announcement of the formation of the President’s Export Council (PEC) in July. Likewise, we are committed to working with you to develop a plan to help achieve the National Export Initiative’s (NEI) goal of doubling US exports over the next five years. The NEI is an ambitious challenge and by taking a collaborative, public-private approach to achieving the NEI’s goals, we can make significant progress in strengthening our country’s economy and creating millions of new jobs for American workers. While we also agree that negotiating bilateral, regional, and multilateral trade agreements can assist in achieving the NEI’s objectives, we believe that such agreements will not improve the U.S. economy or reduce our trade deficit until we improve certain aspects of the pending agreements and strongly enforce existing agreements. Accordingly, we write to express our disagreement with the recommendations made in the letter from the private-sector members of the PEC to move forward quickly on the pending free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia, and Panama. At a time when our economy is struggling to recover from the worst downturn since the Great Depression, we caution against advancing these agreements without significant changes. A vital component of an export and jobs creation strategy is a trade agenda that does not repeat the mistakes of the previous administration. We need to increase market access to US goods so that we are exporting products, not jobs. At the same time, we must make sure that trade agreements have strong enforcement provisions that target the most pressing barriers facing American workers and businesses. Specifically, these agreements must be improved to promote robust, attainable labor and environmental standards; make the investment chapter, including the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, more equitable; and enhance existing provisions on import safety and government procurement. We recognize, as you do, that done right, trade agreements can create jobs if they increase exports and help our economy recover. Done wrong, however, trade agreements send those same jobs off-shore, benefitting a narrow class of investors while leaving middle class American families behind. As members of your Export Council, we are eager to work with you to address these issues and to move forward with trade policies that reflect the changing needs of Main Street and the new realities of the global economy. We appreciate your consideration of our supplemental views. Sincerely, Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) Representative Linda Sánchez (D-CA) Representative Mark Schauer (D-MI) Representative David Wu (D-OR) BACKGROUND:The President's Export Council (PEC) is the principal national advisory committee on international trade. The Council advises the President of government policies and programs that affect US trade performance; promotes export expansion; and provides a forum for discussing and resolving trade-related problems among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government sectors.The administration’s efforts, through the National Export Initiative, are focused on five areas including: access to credit, especially for small and midsize firms; more trade advocacy and export promotion efforts; removing barriers to the sale of U.S. goods and services abroad; enforcement of trade rules; and pursuing policies that will increase global economic growth so that there’s a strong worldwide market for U.S. goods and services. The executive summary of the report is attached and the full report is HERE. ###
09.15.2010	Bill will Boost U.S. Manufacturing Industry Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) worked to pass two bills today as part of the “Make it in America” national manufacturing strategy to create the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future—promoting American competitiveness, innovation, and exports. The two bills, the Congressional Made in America Promise Act and the Berry Amendment Extension Act, will boost the American manufacturing industry and create jobs by requiring the Congress and the Department of Homeland Security to purchase products that are made in America. “I believe we can lead the world in manufacturing if we make the choices now to rebuild our broken manufacturing industry and put people back to work making things again,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I have fought to close tax loopholes that actually encourage corporations to ship American jobs overseas—but partisan attacks have fought us every step of the way. America deserves better.” The Congressional Made in America Promise Act Requires Congress to buy goods and services made by American workers for the first time since “Buy American” rules were instituted for federal agencies under President Roosevelt in 1933, including tighter Buy American requirements for items with the seal of Congress, the House, or Senate. The Berry Amendment Extension Act bars the Department of Homeland Security from buying clothing, tents, and other products that are not “grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced” in America. For the last 60 years, the Berry Amendment has served our nation well by requiring the Defense Department and the Coast Guard to buy a range of domestically produced or grown items with 100% U.S. content, and today the House voted to include the DHS. “We will keep working to put manufacturing, middle class Americans, and small businesses first,” continued Sánchez. “Congress is working to make sure we see the words Made in America more often.” The “Make It in America” strategy also includes: Closing tax loopholes that encourage corporations to outsource U.S. jobs overseas. Providing hometown tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products and innovations overseas. Boosting incentives to create American clean energy jobs like manufacturing state-of-the-art wind turbines and solar panels–paid for by ending corporate welfare to Big Oil. Strengthening rules that U.S. and its contractors buy products made in America, especially to build transportation, energy, and communications infrastructure. Demanding that China and other countries honor fair trade principles or lose American business. Giving incentives to hire and re-train America’s returning veterans for new clean energy jobs. Strengthening partnerships with businesses to retrain America’s workers for jobs of the future. The two bills, H.R. 2039 and H.R. 3116 both passed the House and now head to the Senate for consideration. ###
09.13.2010	“This is great news for East Whittier and our most vulnerable students,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I believe this innovative program is a model for improving student retention and academic performance throughout the state and all of America.” The funds Sánchez secured will fund the Project Action Drop-out Prevention Program, which will provide homeless children and children with incarcerated parents with the out-of-classroom support they need to succeed inside the classroom. The District has already hired new staff, including four school social work graduate students from UCLA, USC, and Cal State Fullerton, to work directly with students and support their academic success. The program will partner with Big Brothers/Big Sisters and provide mentors to participating students. In additional, Project Action staff will work to identify and secure the full spectrum of resources that students need. The project will match social workers with students to provide intensive case management, promoting academic achievement in collaboration with East Whittier’s existing Safe Schools Healthy Students Initiative. “As a school social worker I always struggled with those students for whom their greatest need was time with a positive adult role model,” said Tanya Gavino de Flores, EWCSD Mentoring Social Worker. “Students with absentee parents, with an incarcerated parent, and homeless youth have such difficulties in the school setting and are at risk for academic failure. I am thrilled that our district, through Congresswoman Sanchez, now has funds dedicated to recruiting and matching mentors from the Whittier community for our students. I look forward to building a program that will continue to grow and serve the needs of our Whittier youth.” Rep. Sánchez initially secured the funding as part of the Omnibus appropriations passed by Congress and signed by President Obama. This innovative program reflects Rep. Sánchez’ efforts to create similar nationwide programs through the Increased Student Achievement through Increased Student Support Act and the Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act. ###
09.09.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) issued the following statement today in response to the 301 petition filed by the United Steelworkers union accusing China of violating trade laws and threatening the success of clean energy manufacturing in the U.S. “Americans are tired of watching good manufacturing jobs being sent to China. For too long, the U.S. has practiced ‘free trade,’ while China has engaged in ‘cheating,’ illegal subsidies, and unfair discrimination against American firms and American goods. I applaud the United Steelworkers for standing up for American workers and producers and urge the Administration to accept this petition and act to support America’s budding clean technology industries.” Read the New York Times article on this by clicking here. The United Steelworkers filed a petition under section 301 of the Trade Act on September 9, alleging that several of China’s practices with respect to green energy technology directly violate its obligations as a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO). The petition alleges that China employs a range of aggressive policies to stimulate and protect its green technology producers, including unfair performance requirements for investors; discrimination against foreign firms and goods; WTO-prohibited subsidies for advanced technologies; and trade-distorting domestic subsidies. The petition further alleges that these policies help Chinese companies expand their share of green technology at the expense of jobs in the United States and in violation of WTO rules. If the United States Trade Representative determines that an investigation is appropriate, it must then initiate dispute settlement procedures with China at the WTO. Successful dispute settlement would level the playing field for American producers. ###
08.30.2010	Washington, D.C.— Rep. Linda Sánchez kicked off her new veteran outreach program by naming a Veterans Advisory Council, comprised of distinguished veterans from the 39th Congressional District. The Council will spearhead a “Veteran of the Month” program designed to honor the many deserving veterans from across California’s 39th Congressional District. They will also meet with Rep. Sánchez periodically to listen to legislative updates and provide feedback on veterans issues. “Stories from our local veterans remind me how much our service men and women sacrificed to protect our country and freedoms,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Our promise doesn’t end when their service is done – our commitment continues to honor our veterans each and every day. I look forward to staying connected and hearing from the veteran community through the Veterans Advisory Council.” Congresswoman Sánchez’ “Veteran of the Month” program will be coordinated by her Veterans Advisory Council. Each month, a veteran will be recognized for their service overseas and here at home. The Veterans Advisory Council will nominate a veteran from the district that has served or is serving in the U.S. Armed Forces, and has demonstrated outstanding military service and/or service to their community or to veterans and military personnel. For more information regarding the Veterans Advisory Council or the Veteran of the Month program, please contact Mr. Jamie Zamora at Jamie.Zamora@mail.house.gov. Inaugural Veteran Advisory Council Members: Jose G. Ramos, Vietnam Veteran from the City of Whittier, served as a combat medic with the 101st Airborne Division from 1967-1968. Mr. Ramos is Founder and President of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day, Inc, an organization that is dedicated to establishing a national “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” In 2004, Mr. Ramos led a group of Desert Storm and Vietnam Veterans on a bicycle ride across America from Whittier to Washington, DC to raise awareness that a welcome day for Vietnam Veterans should be established. He worked with the California State Legislature and Governor to establish March 30 as a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day in California. He retired from the County of Los Angeles in 1994 where he was employed as a physician’s assistant in hospital emergency rooms for over 20 years. Jake Alarid, Korean War era veteran from South Whittier, is currently Commander of American GI Forum, El Camino Real Post in Whittier. Mr. Alarid was past National Commander of the American GI Forum and member of the Governor’s California Veterans Board. As National Commander, Mr. Alarid has testified before Congress on the importance of securing and streamlining veteran benefits. Mr. Alarid has served on numerous veteran and youth advisory boards. He proudly served with the U.S. Marine Corp from 1953-56. Jeff Enomoto, Operation Iraqi Freedom veteran from the City of Cerritos, is currently assigned as Company Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Non-Commissioned Officer, with California Army National Guard. Mr. Enomoto is a graduate of the U.S Coast Guard Academy and served as a commissioned officer aboard the U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Citrus. He has been deployed overseas three times since 2001. Mr. Enomoto has held several board positions with VFW Post 1846 (Cerritos-Artesia), including commander. He has worked for the California Department of Toxic Substances Control and is currently employed with the California Department of Conservation. Janice Munson, veteran from the City of Lakewood, enlisted in the Army in 1983, and began her first assignment at Fort Carson, Colorado with the 4th Infantry Division. Since serving in the Army, Ms. Munson has dedicated over 22 years of service to law enforcement. She is currently a Sergeant with the Los Angeles County Sherriff’s Department and devotes her spare time to American Legion Post 496 (Lakewood), where she is the commander. Charles Wood, Vietnam Veteran from the City of Lynwood served with the U.S. Navy for 21 years. During his tour in Vietnam he served aboard swift boats and participated in Operation End Sweep. He served aboard the U.S.S. Yorktown and retired while serving aboard the U.S.S. Monticello. He is a life-time member of the VFW and American Legion. Since retiring, Mr. Wood has devoted his time to the planning of several Veterans Day and USO ceremonies in the City of Lynwood. He currently serves as Chair of the Lynwood Parks and Recreation Commission and serves on several youth sports boards.
08.19.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez announced two grant awards to Rio Hondo College for a total of $475,505 from the Department of Education’s Student Support Services Program. The funds will provide academic and other support services to low-income, first-generation, or disabled college students. “I’m happy Rio Hondo College and its students will benefit from these grants, which will better prepare them for future careers,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “When college students get a little extra support both inside and outside the classroom, their potential is limitless.” The first grant will be in the amount of $220,000.00 for the period 09/01/2010 through 08/31/2011 and the second grant will be in the amount of $255,505.00 for the same period. Rio Hondo College may use the grants for instruction in basic study skills, tutorial services, academic, financial or personal counseling, career guidance, grant aid, and to provide assistance to students seeking admission and financial aid at four-year institutions, graduate, and professional programs. “On behalf of Rio Hondo College students who will be the beneficiaries of programs and services we will provide through the resources of the Student Support Services Grants, it is my pleasure to acknowledge the leadership and initiative of Dr. Zolita Fisher and Dr. Gisela Spieler-Persad in these efforts,” said Dr. Ted Martinez., Jr., Superintendent/President of Rio Hondo College. “I express my thanks, and that of the Rio Hondo College Governing Board, to the Office of Congresswoman Sánchez for assistance in securing such vital funding in these difficult times. It is truly rewarding to be able to enrich our curriculum and services.” Rio Hondo’s Student Support Services Program will target current and newly admitted students with academic need who are low-income, first-generation college attendees, and disabled. ###
08.10.2010	“Many local communities in California have had to choose between important public services – like keeping teachers in the classrooms or keeping police officers on the beat in our neighborhoods,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I came back to Washington this week to stand with working families for a fiscally responsible solution – keeping our children out of overcrowded classrooms and our families protected in their homes and communities.” The House reconvened this week to take up emergency aid, H.R. 1586, which will save and create almost 320,000 jobs – including saving the jobs of 16,500 teachers in California and 307 jobs in the 39th District­­ – and prevent the layoffs of tens of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and nurses. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act is not only completely paid for, it also reduces the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years—in part by closing a loophole that actually encourages corporations to ship American jobs overseas. The legislation provides $10 billion in funding to save more than 160,000 teacher jobs. It also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states that, by reducing shortfalls and stimulating the economy, will save and create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and firefighters, as well as creating private-sector jobs throughout our economy. The House also approved H.R. 6080, the 2010 Emergency Border Security Supplemental Appropriations Bill, which provides over $240 million to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol agents to permanently patrol our southern border and 250 new Customs and Border Protection agents for our ports of entry. It will also create a “strike force” that will be deployed in different areas of the Southwest border depending on where the need is greatest at any particular moment. “By expanding investments in border security, improving our surveillance efforts, and beefing up anti-smuggling investigations, we are tackling our national security challenges head on,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Strengthening border security is one of the central pillars of bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform. I’m glad we could come together to pass this important legislation today but hope we continue to work on other key components of comprehensive reform.” H.R. 6080 must now be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law by the President.
08.06.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced today that the Department of Education has awarded a grant to ABC Unified School District to establish or expand elementary and secondary school counseling programs. “I am pleased to see ABC Unified School District receive these funds,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “To succeed in school, many students need assistance and support both inside and outside the classroom. School counselors help students reach their full potential and play an integral part in the educational process.” The grant will be in the amount of $396,336.00 for the period 08/01/2010 through 07/31/2011. ABC Unified will use funds to support or establish counseling programs and hire qualified school counselors, school social workers, school psychologists, or child and adolescent psychiatrists with a goal of expanding the range, availability, quantity and quality of counseling services available. Counseling services will use a developmental, prevention approach and will be designed and implemented with the involvement of parents of the participating students. The grant will be in the amount of $396,336.00 for the period 08/01/2010 through 07/31/2011. ABC Unified will use funds to support or establish counseling programs through hiring qualified school counselors, school social workers, school psychologists, or child and adolescent psychiatrists with a goal of expanding the range, availability, quantity and quality of counseling services available. Counseling services will use a developmental, prevention approach, and will be designed and implemented with the involvement of parents of the participating students. “We are absolutely delighted that ABC Unified School District is the recipient of the federal Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Program Grant,” said Dr. Mary Sieu, Deputy Superintendent. “Our grant, called the High School Intervention Program, will help to expand counseling services for all five high schools in the District. We will be working with our local area mental health agencies to provide school social workers and mental health counselors to implement a program that focuses on preventive measures as well as involving parents of the participating students. This grant is a much needed resource for our District and we welcome the new opportunities it brings for our students and families.” Sánchez continues her drive to make schools safe, provide more counseling and student support in low-income schools, and improve school environments for personal growth and academic achievement. In January, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 1029, Sánchez’ resolution to honor the important role school counselors play in the lives of students across the country. Sánchez has also sponsored the Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act, H.R. 5671, legislation that would provide funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates, and H.R. 1361, Increased Student Achievement Through Increased Student Support Act, to train and place more professional school counselors, social workers, and psychologists in low-income neighborhoods. View Sánchez’ speech on school counselors: www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez
07.30.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez Supports “Make it in America” Legislation Washington, D.C.—Two days ago, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted in support of Democrats “Make it in America” strategy by supporting three bills that will rebuild the American manufacturing base, put the American people back to work, and grow our economy. “Make it in America” promotes American competitiveness, innovation, and exports by placing an emphasis on creating the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future.“By putting our resources into our manufacturing industry right here in America, we can begin to reinvigorate our economy and create a significant number of new, sustainable jobs,” said Rep. Sánchez. “For every job we create in manufacturing, we create four more jobs in other industries. I am proud to vote for this job-building strategy to help the U.S. remain a leader in the world economy.”The three bills passed by the House today represent crucial next steps in the “Make it in America” agenda. The Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act, H.R. 5156, supports cutting-edge energy jobs and makes it easier for U.S. companies who produce new energy products (like solar panels) to increase exports. The End the Trade Deficit Act, H.R. 1875, will examine the nature, causes and consequences of the U.S. trade deficit and make recommendations on reducing trade imbalances. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act, H.R. 4692, creates a Manufacturing Strategy Board that will develop short- and long-term goals for America’s manufacturing industry, and require the President to explain how items in his budget promote that strategy.America will continue to lead the world in technological and industrial innovation if we support our manufacturing base and put Americans back to work making things. With the “Make it in America” strategy, Democrats are: Closing the tax loopholes that encourage outsourcing U.S. jobs overseas. Forcing China and other countries to honor fair trade principles or lose American business. Provide tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products overseas Strengthening “Buy American” rules to ensure our government purchases American products Giving incentives and strengthening partnerships with businesses to retrain America’s workers and returning veterans for jobs of the future. “The ‘Make it in America’ agenda will allow more hard working men and women to experience renewed success,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Passing this package of programs is a big step in reviving our manufacturing sector. I am proud to support these efforts and the American families who are sure to benefit.” Democrats are standing with American families to rebuild our economy while Republicans are on the side of big business. Republicans voted to protect the tax loopholes that are sending our jobs overseas and they voted against creating more than 3.5 million American jobs. Republicans want to return to the “exact same” failed policies of the Bush Administration that resulted in the worst jobs record of any Administration in 75 years and lost more than 4.5 million manufacturing jobs.###
07.28.2010	Washington, DC – Direct care workers have never been protected by the Fair Labor Standards Act, which includes access to the minimum wage and overtime compensation that the rest of the nation’s workforce is entitled to. Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced legislation to correct this injustice and doing so, to help improve direct care services to seniors and people with disabilities by introducing the Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act. “I am here to say that our nation’s laws should respect all hard working Americans equally,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “No matter whether you sit behind a corporate desk or care for an elderly person in a home, all work has dignity.” This legislation builds upon prior efforts to protect these hard-working and vulnerable workers. Last year, Rep. Sánchez, Co-Chair of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, spearheaded a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, urging her to change the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) regulations so that home care workers would be entitled to minimum wage and overtime. The Department of Labor responded by including the issue on its list of regulatory items to address, but has not yet proposed a new rule. Sánchez believes the issue is important enough to proceed on both tracks. “As the daughter of a father living with Alzheimer’s – I know just how important home care workers are,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “Yet, every year, home-care aides land on Forbes magazine’s list of the ‘25 worst-paying jobs in America.’ Direct-care workers make up one of the largest and fastest growing work­forces in the country, playing a vital role in job creation and economic growth. Regardless of the work you do, if you do it well, you should be compensated enough to take care of your family and put food on the table.” The Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act would: ensure that home care workers receive the federal minimum wage and overtime protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act (fixing the loophole cemented by the Supreme Court decision in Long Island Care at Home, Ltd. v. Coke in 2007) ; improve federal and state data collection and oversight with respect to the direct care workforce; and establish a grant program to help states improve direct care worker recruitment, retention, and training. “For three decades, I have worked hard to help ensure the autonomy and well-being of consumers in my care,” said John Booker, a direct care worker and founder of Association of Direct Care Workers of Color. “But dozens of my colleagues haven’t been in the field as long – they love their jobs but have been forced to leave because they can’t make ends meet. This kind of high turnover is bad for consumers and their families. The Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act will help improve working conditions and will make direct care a viable career option so that we can meet the growing demand for our services.” “As someone who has worked for less-than-minimum wage in my lifetime, and as an advocate for direct care workers, I can say that basic labor protections for home care workers are long overdue,” said Leonila Vega, Executive Director, Direct Care Alliance. “These men and women care for our loved ones but aren’t earning enough to support their own families. The Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act will help strengthen the direct care workforce and improve the quality of care for the more than 27 million Americans expected to require long-term care by 2050. The Direct Care Alliance thanks Congresswoman Sánchez for taking action on behalf of direct care workers and the people they serve.” “Direct care workers give their hearts, souls and bodies to take care of our sick and elderly family members and friends,” said Judy Conti, Federal Advocacy Coordinator, National Employment Law Project. “They care for the most vulnerable, but they should not be among the most vulnerable of workers. They deserve every protection of our nation’s wage and hour laws and the National Employment Law Project commends and thanks Congresswoman Sánchez for taking the lead in working to remedy the injustices that they face on the job every day.” The Direct Care Workforce Empowerment Act is supported by the Direct Care Alliance, National Council on Aging, National Hispanic Council on Aging, AFSCME, SEIU, National Partnership for Women and Families, National Alliance for Direct Support Professionals, Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, and the Council on Social Work Education.
07.22.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today about a 90-year-old law that has captured Washington’s attention. The law restricts shipping between points in the United States to U.S. built vessels that have U.S. owners and U.S. crews. Rep. Sánchez pointed out that the Jones Act is needed because it “prevents our economy from being dominated by foreign interests, who don’t pay American taxes, hire American workers, or even follow American health, safety, and environmental laws.” Recently, critics have claimed that the Jones Act is an impediment to cleanup efforts in the Gulf of Mexico, creating bureaucratic hurdles for foreign vessels that could help. “Nothing could be further from the truth,” said Rep. Sánchez. “There is no evidence that the Jones Act has interfered with the clean-up in any way. We are in a recession. It’s time to work together to expand American manufacturing and create jobs, not play partisan games.” Sánchez urged her colleagues to stop posturing and start supporting American families by supporting the Jones Act. Click here to read a letter Sánchez wrote to the Washington Post about the Jones Act.
07.21.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez voted today to help U.S. manufacturers and American workers by supporting H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010. The legislation will help American manufacturers by temporarily suspending or reducing duties on key materials these companies use in their manufacturing process. The bill only suspends duties on goods that are either not made at all in the U.S., or whose domestic producers do not object to the duty suspension. “Today, Congress voted to help make the words ‘made in America’ the center of our economic prosperity,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This bill will assist U.S. manufacturers, cut the cost of doing business, create jobs, and boost our gross domestic product.” Despite opposition by the Republican House leadership, the measure passed easily by a vote of 378-43. Background on H.R. 4380, the U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act of 2010: Commonly referred to as the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB), this legislation is estimated to support tens of thousands of American jobs, helping to increase U.S. production and expand gross domestic product (GDP) by billions of dollars. Provisions included in the legislation undergo an extremely thorough vetting process to ensure the benefits do not come at the expense of domestic manufacturers. During the process, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee, the Administration, and the independent U.S. International Trade Commission thoroughly review each tariff relief request to ensure that there is no domestic opposition. The relief provided in H.R. 4380 is temporary, meaning that if a U.S. business begins manufacturing a product covered by a current MTB provision and the business objects to extending the provision when it comes up for renewal, it will not be extended. The legislation is supported by hundreds of U.S. businesses and trade associations, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. Please click here for more information on H.R. 4380.
07.15.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted to help American families affordably protect their homes from flooding and to have a voice in the zoning process. See her speech HERE. The Flood Insurance Reform Priorities Act will extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years and reform the program by expanding coverage and providing homeowners with more control over their insurance. “The bill helps those who face being re-zoned by delaying new mandatory flood insurance requirements for five years,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This delay is good because it will give FEMA time to get the new maps right, while working with communities to see that only those families in real danger of flooding are required to buy this insurance.” Sánchez pointed out that she has heard from a number of her constituents who will soon be required to pay more than a thousand dollars a year in flood insurance premiums- even though they live in a virtual desert. “It is ironic that even though Southern California is a semi-arid, near desert region, many of my constituents are being told to pay a thousand dollars a year or more to guard against floods,” continued Sánchez. “This is why I want local residents to be involved in the process and given the chance to be heard before their homes are re-zoned and deemed in a flood zone.” This reform bill updates the NFIP, established over 40 years ago, to meet the needs of the 21st century. It raises maximum coverage limits for the first time since 1994, providing a stronger safety net for families threatened by flooding. The bill also provides families with greater flexibility and options, by allowing them to pay for flood insurance in installments, creating the office of the Flood Insurance Advocate to protect and assist policyholders, and delaying the mandatory requirement to purchase insurance for five years in areas only recently declared as a flood zone. It also shores up the economic viability of the program by reducing premium subsidies for second homes and homes that have experienced frequent flooding.
07.15.2010	“Millionaires and billionaires need to pay their fair share in estate taxes, especially at a time when we have a record-breaking national debt,” said Ways and Means Member Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Tax breaks under George W. Bush favored the wealthy and contributed to a growing gap between the very rich and everyone else. It’s time they pay their fair share.” The estate tax is a tax on the net value of an estate, or total value of the money and property, minus debts, of a person who has died. The value of the estate after taxes is then passed on to the beneficiaries of the deceased. The estate tax was instituted to ensure that the very wealthiest families, those who have benefited from the greatness of the American economic system, contribute back to that system so that others may also have a chance to achieve and succeed as well. When it functions properly, the estate tax keeps this nation’s wealth from becoming too tightly concentrated in the hands of a few privileged families. But as a result of President Bush's $1.35 trillion tax break bill, the estate tax has been completely repealed in 2010. What this means is that for the first time since 1916, the heirs to multi-million and billion dollar fortunes are able to receive their entire inheritance free of federal taxes, costing at least $14.8 billion in lost revenue in 2010 alone. Last March, the wealthiest person in Houston, Texas (Dan Duncan) became the first multi-billionaire to pass along his entire estate -- estimated to be worth some $9 billion -- to his family without paying any federal estate tax. “In America, we tell our children that America is the land of opportunity, that if they work hard, they can achieve anything. The Responsible Estate Tax Act restores fairness to the system and keeps America’s promise,” continued Sánchez. The Responsible Estate Tax Act is a companion to legislation introduced in the Senate by Senators Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Tom Harkin (D-IA), and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). The Responsible Estate Tax Act would do the following: * Exempts the first $3.5 million of an estate from federal taxation ($7 million for couples), the same exemption that existed in 2009. A $3.5 million exemption would mean that 99.75 percent of all estates would be exempted from the federal estate tax. * Includes a progressive rate structure so that the super wealthy pay more. Under this bill, the rate on estates worth more than $3.5 million but less than $10 million would be 45 percent, the same as the 2009 level. The rate on estates worth $10 million but less than $50 million would be 50 percent, and the rate on the value of estates above $50 million would be 55 percent. * Includes a billionaire's surtax of 10 percent. This bill would also impose a 10 percent surtax on the value of an estate above $500 million ($1 billion for couples). According to Forbes Magazine, there are only 403 billionaires in the United States with a collective net worth of $1.3 trillion. Clearly, the heirs to these multi-billion fortunes should be paying a higher estate tax rate than others. * Closes all of the Estate and Gift Tax Loopholes requested in President Obama's Fiscal Year 2011 budget. These loophole closers include requiring consistent valuation for transfer and income tax purposes; a modification of rules on valuation discounts; and a required 10-year minimum term for Grantor Retained Annuity Trusts (GRATS). OMB has estimated that closing these loopholes that benefit the super-wealthy would raise at least $23.7 billion in revenue over 10 years. * Protects family farmers by allowing them to lower the value of their farmland by up to $3 million for estate tax purposes. Under current law, the value of farmland can be reduced up to $1 million for estate tax purposes under 2032(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Special Use Valuation). This bill would increase the level to $3 million and indexes it to inflation. * Benefits farmers and other landowners by providing estate tax relief for conservation easements. This bill would provide tax relief to farmers and other landowners by amending estate tax rules for conservation easements through an increase in the maximum exclusion amount to $2 million and increasing the base percentage to 60 percent. This legislation would exempt over 99.7 percent of Americans from paying any estate tax whatsoever, while ensuring that the wealthiest Americans in our country pay their fair share. More information about the Estate Tax, its importance to reducing the budget deficit, and its affect on taxpayers, can be found here: www.cbpp.org/files/estatetaxmyths.pdf.
07.01.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act,” legislation that would provide funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. “If we are serious about leaving no child behind, we must admit that schools are not factories and children are not widgets,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “We must place more counselors where there are more students at risk. No child should miss out on a quality education because his or her school was too cash-strapped to afford enough school counselors.” The American School Counselor Association and the American Counseling Association recommend a ratio of one school counselor to 250 students and a lower ratio for counselors working primarily with students at risk. But the average student-to-counselor ratio in California’s public schools is more than 900 to one, a ratio that hardly allows for individual attention and intensive support. With 7,000 students dropping out of high school every single day in this country, additional personal attention and follow-up from professional counselors will prevent our children from falling through the cracks of large L.A. area high schools that serve student populations between two and four thousand. The “Put School Counselors Where They’re Needed Act” would address this problem by providing funding for additional counselors in high schools with high drop-out rates. These additional counselors would work intensively with students at risk and would collaborate with parents, teachers, tutors, employers, and others to create a comprehensive plan to get these students back on the right track. “Professional secondary school counselors are an integral part of the effort to increase graduation rates,” continued Sánchez. “School counselors can identify potential problems early in a student’s school career and make sure that they are addressed before students become overwhelmed and drop out.” This legislation is supported by the National PTA, the American School Counselor Association, and the American Counseling Association.
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today voted for tough legislation that puts consumers first, holds Wall Street and Big Banks accountable, and ends the era of taxpayer-funded bailouts. View her floor speech HERE. “In my district in Southern California, we’ve seen lost jobs, homes, businesses, and shattered dreams of financial security,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The legislation that we put forth today seeks to fix those failures and provide families nationwide with the security of knowing that future financial challenges will be the result of honest markets, not crooked traders.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act provides significant protections for the American consumer and gives federal regulators the tools they need to reign in the irresponsible actions by Wall Street that did so much damage to our economy. The legislation establishes a new independent watchdog with the authority to ensure American consumers are offered safe, non-predatory products when they shop for mortgages, credit cards, student loans, and other financial products. “Honesty is what this bill is all about,” continued Sánchez. “It will help prevent another crisis like the one we’re still recovering from.” The bill reforms the mortgage lending industry by eliminating many of the abusive practices that helped lead to the recent massive spike in foreclosures. Additionally, for the first time this legislation also limits some of the riskiest activities of banks and regulates the multitrillion-dollar market of over-the-counter derivatives. These abusive practices were in large part the result of an ineffective, and in some places non-existent, regulatory system. It also provides new protections for grocers, retailers and other small businesses facing out-of-control swipe fees that banks and other credit and debit card issuers charge these businesses for debit or prepaid-card purchases. The bill, H.R. 4173, passed the House of Representatives and awaits action by the Senate before it heads to President Obama’s desk. ###
06.29.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement after a meeting with President Barack Obama and other Congressional Hispanic Caucus members at the White House today: “President Obama reaffirmed his pledge to address the concerns and priorities of the Latino community. “I conveyed to the President that I have strong concerns about the need to reform our broken immigration system sooner rather than later. Reform must be tough, efficient, and practical. The more we delay, the worse things will get. “I am committed to working with the President to lay the groundwork for comprehensive immigration reform and I am optimistic we will pass a bill.” A photograph of the President’s meeting is available HERE.
06.28.2010	“The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Improvement Act will free up millions of dollars for harbor upkeep,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This is important to places like Long Beach and Los Angeles who are often unable to use funds they have collected because of restrictions on the law.” Federal taxes are collected to pay for maintenance dredging, yet only about half of what is collected is being spent for its intended purpose due to limitations on the way the money is appropriated. As a result, the fund has accumulated a large surplus. By passing Sánchez’ Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Improvement Act of 2010, ports will have more options to use this surplus of funds. “Our nation’s ports are a crucial component of our shipping system and a linchpin of our economy, allowing America to remain one of the world’s largest trading nations,” continued Sánchez. “This bill would strengthen our harbors’ economic position and international competitiveness by expanding their ability to make use of Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund money.” The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund was authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 1986. The purpose was to levy a tax on cargo imported or domestically moved through federally maintained channels and harbors, to pay for Army Corps of Engineers operations and maintenance of these ports and harbors. However, the monies can only be spent if the funding is actually appropriated by Congress. A 2008 report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that while the fee - known formally as the Harbor Maintenance Tax - generates more than $1.5 billion annually, approximately only $900 million is being spent.
06.24.2010	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other women Democratic Members of the House at a press conference to call on Senate Republicans to stop blocking critical job creation legislation. Rep. Sánchez issued the following statement: “I know that there are many families who are facing tough times in this economy. “I want to reiterate what people in my district and across this country are saying: the American people want the government to focus on job creation and job training programs. It’s particularly important among women of color and single mothers who have been hit especially hard by the recession. “We cannot afford to wait any longer to protect working families. We cannot afford to wait any longer to breathe life back into our economy. “It’s time for Republicans start to listen to what American families are saying. This is not the time for political games. It is a time for investments to be made in bringing jobs to families, communities, and our country.” Click here for more information.
06.17.2010	“Small businesses are the backbone of my district and will continue to be the engine of America’s economic recovery,” said Rep. Linda Sanchez. Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Linda Sanchez voted in favor of legislation that will increase lending for small businesses and create hundreds of thousands of jobs. This legislation, which expands much-needed lending to small businesses and offers tax incentives to help America’s small businesses grow, is fully paid for and will save taxpayers $1 billion over the next ten years. “Small businesses are the backbone of my district and will continue to be the engine of America’s economic recovery,” said Rep. Linda Sanchez. “This legislation is another part of our ongoing efforts to put our economy back on the right track as we work to recover from the failed policies of the Bush era.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act will help small businesses expand through investments in states and small banks and offers tax incentives to drive immediate investments in America’s small businesses. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. This $30 billion lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. Republicans in Congress are once again standing on the side of big corporations and big banks instead of siding with Main Street and small American businesses. “Democrats in Congress realize the importance of supporting Main Street,” said Rep. Sanchez. “Last year, almost half of the small businesses seeking loans were unable to meet their credit needs. We want small businesses to have access to capital and resources so they can grow.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act has been endorsed by a variety of organizations, including the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, the American Bankers Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization and the National Bankers Association.
06.16.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ways and Means Committee Member Linda Sánchez issued the following statement at today’s hearing on China's trade and industrial policies: “It is time to stand up for American workers and producers by preventing China from continuing to take advantage of the world trade system. “While we pursue free trade, China continues to manipulate currency, keeping the price of Chinese goods and services artificially low while making the prices of American goods and services artificially high. This isn’t free trade at all – much less fair trade. Our trade deficit with China has cost the U.S. about 2.4 million jobs according to the Economic Policy Institute. “China’s dirty trade tactics, including: condoning intellectual property theft, subsidizing state owned enterprises and foreign investors to lure U.S. jobs overseas, favoring Chinese products, restricting worker freedoms, and manipulating its currency, all benefit Chinese companies while U.S. companies, workers, and farmers get the shaft. The biggest victims are American workers and their families as they face lost jobs, downward pressure on wages, and reduced ability to influence the quality of their lives. “In addition, I find it abhorrent that Chinese workers still lack fundamental rights. Many of us have sought to strengthen labor standards among our trading partners, reflecting basic international rights. Adopting these standards can help to build a healthier and more sustainable global economy. “Our economy is already suffering, experiencing its largest trade deficits in history, and China has been the biggest culprit. It is possible for the United States and China both to benefit from trade, but only if we are both playing by the same rules. It is time for China to play fair.”
06.10.2010	· Rep. Chris Van Hollen, Assistant to the Speaker (MD-08): “It is becoming standard operating procedure for Washington Republicans to create problems – and then refuse to fix them. First it was the economy, then the Wall Street reform. Now, as the Affordable Care Act begins to finally close the prescription drug ‘donut hole’ – a problem the GOP created in their 2003 unpaid for Medicare bill – House Republicans have renewed their calls to repeal health care reform and keep seniors in the ‘donut hole’ and without free preventive health care. In the process, they’d put medical decisions in the hands of insurance companies rather than doctors. As usual, Republicans inside the beltway are totally out of touch with the needs of seniors, middle-class families, and small businesses. Unfortunately, Washington Republicans would rather spend all of their time undermining health care reform then help make it a success." · Rep. Pete Stark, Chair of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee (CA-13): "Starting today, seniors in the donut hole will start receiving $250 checks as part of the Democrats' health reform bill. The Republican alternative: 'Cancel the checks.'" · Rep. Kendrick Meek (FL-17): “Florida seniors are struggling with high prescription drug costs while paying skyrocketing premiums. The contrast is clear: Democrats are willing to tackle the problem by closing the ‘donut hole’ and issuing critical rebate checks. Republicans want to snatch these checks out of their hands, repeal health care reform, and leave seniors out in the cold.” · Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-21): “Relief is finally coming to seniors who fall in the Medicare Part D 'donut hole.' These checks are the first step of many to put seniors and ordinary Americans first – not the profits of big insurance companies. We know that those who opposed health care reform in Congress want to repeal the new law, and steal this very valuable benefit from seniors. I will join my colleagues in fighting any effort to repeal this badly needed heath reform law, which not only helps seniors, but will also provide millions of Americans with access to affordable, quality health care.” · Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13): “I have heard countless horror stories from seniors in my district about the donut hole. It is unconscionable that seniors living on fixed incomes are burdened with the enormous financial burden of covering all of their prescription costs. They resort to dangerous tactics like sharing medications, cutting pills in half, or skipping their prescriptions altogether. This has been a disaster for seniors, and it took a Democratic Congress and a Democratic President to finally fix it. Health reform is a huge victory for seniors on Medicare and it was a long time coming.” · Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39): “Medicare beneficiaries will soon be receiving a rebate in the mail for $250, but if it were up to Republicans, they would be sending it back. I hope that one day that I will no longer hear any American families say they have to choose between putting food on the table and buying their medication, and I look forward to eliminating the ‘donut hole’ completely.” · Rep. Dina Titus (NV-03): “Health care reform is providing seniors with $250 this year to help defray the high cost of prescription drugs at a time when every dollar counts for seniors on a fixed budget. As the first round of checks goes out to help seniors facing the Medicare prescription drug donut hole, Republicans continue their incessant call for the repeal of health care reform that would leave seniors facing high out-of-pocket expenses for life-saving prescription drugs. If Republicans have their way, seniors would have to choose between paying for the drugs they need or other basic necessities.” · Rep. Jim McDermott (WA-07): "This Congress’ health care reform bill finally put a patch over the giant donut hole written into the Republicans’ seriously flawed legislation. Unlike my Republican colleagues did when they designed the donut hole, I’m glad the President understood the importance of considering the needs of seniors when crafting a bill intended to help them. Republicans say they want to repeal health care reform? Have at it. But good luck explaining to seniors why you think paying for prescription drugs should bring them to the brink of bankruptcy." · Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03): “Last year, 46,700 seniors in Connecticut who were enrolled in Medicare fell into the prescription drug donut hole, and were without help in trying to pay for the medication they need. Now, under the new health reform law, help is on the way. These $250 checks are just the first step in reducing seniors’ prescription drug costs, and one of many benefits for seniors included in the new health reforms. In passing the historic health reform law, we stood up against the insurance companies, and for the American people. It will ensure that not only our seniors, but their children and their grandchildren will all have access to the stable, quality, and affordable health care that will let them thrive.” · Rep. Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-20): “We promised seniors that we would close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole, and thanks to the new health reform law, we start closing it today. My state of Florida has the second largest number of people in the donut hole in the country and the seniors in my district are very happy that we are closing this gap in coverage that keeps so many of them from staying on their prescribed medications. When Republicans talk about repealing the health reform law, they fail to tell seniors that what they really mean is that they’d re-open the Medicare donut hole.” ###
06.04.2010	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) issued the following statement regarding Arizona’s law, SB 1070, which forces police officers to question anyone they “reasonably suspect” to be an illegal immigrant: “Let me be perfectly clear: I believe the Arizona law is unconstitutional, will lead to racial profiling, and do nothing to solve our broken immigration system. For eight years I have been working on a comprehensive solution that would bring about a rational, safe and efficient immigration process. I am interested in being a problem solver, not creating problems. “The Arizona law doesn’t solve anything, nor will a patchwork of 50 different state laws. The only way we are going to fix this problem is by federal action. Unfortunately, the people who get on the airwaves to stir up anger by misconstruing opponents comments are not interested in constructive solutions. They’re interested in dividing this country into “us” and “them” to inflame the issue. I have never said that everyone who supports the Arizona law is a racist or white supremacist. Anyone who says different is fabricating comments to get ratings, and trying to get away from the real discussion of how to reform the immigration system in this country. “I stand behind the facts of the statements I have made with respect to the authors of the Arizona law. I encourage anyone who is interested to research the law’s drafters and the groups they are affiliated with to see what kind of broader movement they are promoting.” ###
05.28.2010	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted for H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, legislation that would provide vital tax cuts and support for American workers while also investing in American jobs through tax relief for businesses and investments in infrastructure. “This is a jobs bill,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I want to see ‘Made in America’ make a comeback. This bill spurs job creation through tax cuts and loan relief to small businesses, as well as bond provisions to fund infrastructure improvements in our cities and towns.” The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act will support more than a million American jobs by helping restore credit to small businesses, extending the R&D tax credit, rebuilding American roads and bridges, and closing tax loopholes that encourage businesses to move jobs overseas and allow hedge fund managers to pay lower taxes than their secretaries. The bill also extends unemployment benefits for Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “This bill is about whose side you’re on,” continued Sánchez. “I’m on the side of middle class families – funding summer youth jobs and building the foundation for a healthy, growing economy. Those Republicans who voted no are saying no to millions of Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own, and no to tax benefits for families trying to pay for college or businesses trying to create jobs.” The tax benefits to middle class Americans – including property tax and college tuition deductions – are paid for by closing the tax loopholes that big businesses have exploited to ship jobs overseas and that allowed Wall Street billionaires to pay a much lower tax rate on their income. The bill also promotes corporate accountability for the oil industry, boosting the amount oil companies must pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund – so taxpayers are never stuck with the bill for the risky practices of the industry. In addition, the bill ensures seniors can keep their doctor by preventing cuts in Medicare physician payments. These provisions will ensure that Medicare beneficiaries, as well as military families enrolled in TRICARE and military retirees enrolled in TRICARE for Life, will continue to have access to the doctors of their choice and the same high quality care that they have today. ###
05.13.2010	“This Sunday, as I celebrated my first Mother’s Day as a mom, I was reminded of the importance of a healthy family. “As moms, we set a foundation for our families – whether it’s putting on the sunscreen or scheduling check-ups – we set the example for our children. “One reason I worked so hard to pass the Affordable Care Act is to empower moms and their children. “Thanks to the healthcare reform law, women will no longer be excluded from insurance for pre-existing conditions, pay higher premiums than men, or forced to pay sky-rocketing out-of-pocket costs for basic health services like preventive screenings and maternity coverage. “As a working mom, I know how easy it is to put our own health on the back burner behind work, family, or school. “Mother’s Day marked the beginning of National Women’s Health Week, a time to encourage women to make their health a top priority and recommit to improving the health of women for generations to come. “Women’s health is not just a women’s issue. When we have healthy moms, we encourage the vitality of our children and our communities.” Mother’s Day marked the beginning of National Women’s Health Week, observed the week of May 9 – 15, 2010, and is coordinated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office on Women’s Health (OWH). During this week, women across the country are encouraged to act on the theme, “It’s Your Time,” by making their health a top priority.
05.13.2010	“Henry is a much-loved and respected community leader,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I believe it is incumbent on all members of the South Gate community to honor those that have given so much of themselves to better the city. A post office named in his honor will remind us what true commitment of a civil leader is, and how that determination can inspire us all.” 75- year-old Henry C. Gonzalez currently serves as a Councilmember for the City of South Gate, where he has proudly served for over two decades, beginning in 1982 when he became the first Latino elected to the City Council. He continued to make history as the City’s first Latino Mayor just a year later, a role he has assumed several times during his 23 years in elected office. In 1999, he survived an attempted murder when he was shot in the head by an assailant as he returned home from a Council meeting. As a union steward and later as regional Assistant Director for the United Auto Workers during his time with General Motors, Gonzalez worked to ensure effective communication between employee and employer. When General Motors closed its South Gate auto plant in the early 1980s, Henry Gonzalez played a prominent role in seeking employment for the 4,000 displaced workers. An avid supporter of South Gate youth sports, Gonzalez founded the South Gate High School Booster Club and South Gate Youth Football, Inc. He served as a board member for countless national and local organizations, including the Boy Scouts of America and the Labor Council for Latin-American Advancement and has not missed a South Gate High School football game since 1972. Rep. Sánchez already has broad support for the legislation from the California congressional delegation and will work to have the bill approved by the entire Congress.
05.11.2010	Congresswoman encourages organizations to file a yearly tax return or “e-postcard” by Monday Washington, DC –Rep. Linda Sánchez reminded local tax-exempt organizations to file a tax return by Monday, May 17, 2010 in order to avoid losing their tax-exempt status. Approximately 18,000 California nonprofits haven’t done it yet. “I know that nonprofit organizations value their tax-exempt status so I want to remind them that they may need to file an annual return by May 17 to avoid losing that status,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This requirement has changed in order to better understand how many organizations exist. Whether your organization has a budget in the millions or in the thousands, you are required to fill out an annual form to the IRS.” The Pension Protection Act of 2006 stated that most tax-exempt organizations, other than churches or other houses of worship, must file a yearly return or notice with the IRS. If an organization has not filed an annual return in the past three years (even those with gross receipts normally under $25,000), the law provides that it automatically loses its tax-exempt status. Loss of exempt status means an organization must file income tax returns and pay income tax, and its contributors will not be able to deduct their donations. Organizations will have to file all over again for recognition as tax-exempt with the IRS. The website below that contains a searchable database of those local community non-profits who are at risk of losing their non-profit status MONDAY, MAY 17, unless they file their required forms. Some non-profits may have a later deadline however, all organizations should take notice of the new law as soon as possible. https://nccsdataweb.urban.org/PubApps/statePicker.php?prog=epostcard&display=state The smallest nonprofits (those with gross receipts normally under $25,000) only need to fill out Form 990-N, also known as the e-Postcard. Completing the e-Postcard requires just the eight items listed below: 1. Employer identification number (EIN), also known as a Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). 2. Tax year 3. Legal name and mailing address 4. Any other names the organization uses 5. Name and address of a principal officer 6. Web site address if the organization has one 7. Confirmation that the organization’s annual gross receipts are normally $25,000 or less 8. If applicable, a statement that the organization has terminated or is terminating (going out of business) The IRS has detailed information on who needs to file, as well as Frequently Asked Questions and fact sheets that you can share with groups in your district. Links to More Information from the IRS: Link to FAQ on the issue: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=221600,00.html The 8 questions: https://www.irs.gov/charities/article/0,,id=218162,00.html You can also find more information from the National Council of Nonprofits on their homepage at www.councilofnonprofits.org, or find your State Association at www.councilofnonprofits.org/salocator to get more local information.
05.10.2010	Local High School Art to be Displayed in Nation’s Capitol Washington, DC – On Saturday, local high school students were announced the winners of Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ 8th Annual 39th Congressional District High School Art Competition. Samantha Spawton, a Senior at Mayfair High School in Lakewood, took first place with her piece titled, “They’re Gonna Eat Me Alive.” “Southern California is home to a rich culture of cutting edge talent and creativity,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Each of the winners embody that talent and their work is impressive. Samantha’s work will be on display in the Capitol where my colleagues and I walk through every day, and where thousands of tourists visit throughout the year.” Top Finishers: 1. Samantha Spawton of Mayfair High School for her piece, “They’re Gonna Eat Me Alive” 2. Joshua Oceguera of Mayfair High School for his piece, “Kramahh” 3. James Magana of Lynwood High School for his piece, “Lost” Of over 100 entries received, winners were selected by a panel of local art experts as the overall winner from seven artistic categories. Students from all over California’s 39th District participated in the art competition. Spawton will now travel to Washington D.C. in June for the official awards presentation of all national winners. Her winning piece will be hung in the U.S. Capitol for one year.
05.07.2010	Congresswoman votes to create more energy efficient homes, while spurring construction industry The bill passed the House by a vote of 246-161. “This bill will put American workers on jobs installing Made-in-America technology in our homes,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This package of rebates will help our economy grow by creating more than 150,000 American jobs in industries that were crushed by the Bush economic crisis including those in construction, manufacturing and retail. Also, by using less energy, we can reduce our dependence on foreign oil by as many as seven million barrels a year.” Home Star provides two types of rebates: ü Silver Star – providing up-front rebates for specific energy-saving investments, including insulation, duct sealing, windows and doors, air sealing and water heaters at the time of sale. Homeowners receive up to $1,500 per improvement, with a rebate of up to $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. ü Gold Star – rewarding homeowners who conduct a comprehensive energy audit and implement measures to reduce energy use, backed by a quality assurance program. Consumers receive $3,000 for a demonstrated savings of 20 percent, plus an additional $1,000 for each additional 5 percent energy savings up to $8,000 – capped at 50 percent of the project cost. This legislation builds on our previous accomplishments, including the tax credits for energy-efficient home improvements created in the Recovery Act. Through the end of 2010, homeowners can receive a tax credit for 30 percent of the cost of these improvements, up to $1,500. More information is available at https://www.energysavers.gov/financial The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act has received bipartisan support, and has been endorsed by a broad range of business, labor, environmental, and consumer groups, including the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Home Builders.
05.05.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) has been appointed to the President’s Export Council, the principal national advisory committee on international trade. As a member of the council, Rep. Sánchez will advise President Obama on policies and initiatives that improve U.S. trade policy, promote expanded exports, and create jobs in America. “Strong trade relationships help grow businesses and create jobs in California and across the country,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I look forward to working with President Obama to develop an aggressive export strategy to revitalize American manufacturing. Additionally, I hope to work with the Administration to improve enforcement of our trade laws and agreements so that American working families don’t face unfair competition from countries that don’t play by the rules.” Established by presidential executive order in 1973, the council is composed of business executives, leaders in the labor and agriculture communities, members of Congress, and officials from the executive branch, and reports to the president through the Secretary of Commerce. Sánchez is one of five members of the U.S. House of Representatives appointed to the current council. Since first winning her seat in 2002, Sánchez has tirelessly worked to improve U.S. trade policy and better protect workers, co-founding both the Labor and Working Families Caucus and the House Trade Working Group. Recognizing that trade can be a job-creating pillar of economic recovery, Sánchez has advocated for American working families and has led efforts for trade policies that are proactive, responsible, and responsive to American families’ interests. In addition to promoting exports to create American jobs, the council works to strengthen our economy on the global stage and address trade-related challenges among the business, industrial, agricultural, labor, and government communities.
05.05.2010	“There are so many teachers in my district who work hard to open students' minds to ideas, knowledge, and dreams,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I encourage everyone to take a moment to let a special teacher know how much they touched your life.” Sánchez recognized: · Julie Wright, who teaches first grade at Gardenhill Elementary School in La Mirada. Ms. Wright was recently nominated “Teacher of Year.” · Pattie Blasnick is a Special Day Class Teacher at Ada S. Nelson Elementary School and was recently selected as the Los Nietos Teacher of the Year for 2009-2010. · Juvenal Martinez is a 6th grade teacher at Aeolian School who was recently honored for outstanding service to education and agriculture. This week is Teacher Appreciation Week, a time to honor teachers and recognize the lasting contributions they make to our lives. The theme for National Teacher Day is “Great Teachers Make Great Public Schools.” Teacher Appreciation Week is sponsored by the National PTA and is a time to strengthen support and respect for teachers. Congresswoman Sánchez has recognized the critical role that K-12 education plays in creating a strong new foundation for the American economy. In Congress, she has helped to enact two key bills with critical investments in K-12 education: the Recovery Act and the FY 2010 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations bill. In addition, in December, the House passed the Jobs for Main Street Act, which includes a critical $23 billion Education Jobs Fund that would prevent the layoffs of tens of thousands of teachers in the coming school year if the Senate passes it and it is signed into law. In addition, Reps. Linda Sánchez and Ed Towns (NY-10) have introduced the Increased Student Achievement Through Increased Student Support Act, which will help train more school counselors, social workers, and psychologists to work in hard-to-staff schools to provide students and teachers the support they need so that teachers can concentrate on teaching. For a fact sheet, “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act: Investing in Education for the 21st Century,” click here.
05.04.2010	Washington D.C. – Rep. Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today on the passing of Artesia Councilmember Larry R. Nelson: “The passing of Councilmember Larry Nelson is a loss to the City of Artesia, but his work will live on in a community in which he truly believed, “every day is a good day.” "Larry’s legacy will live in the annual Veteran’s Day event he founded to honor men and women in uniform yesterday, today, and tomorrow. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends.”
04.28.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), worked with colleagues in the House of Representatives today to honor those who have died on the job and draw attention to the need for better enforcement of workplace health and safety laws. Sánchez, along with Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Bruce Braley (D-IA), introduced the resolution honoring Workers’ Memorial Day, which is celebrated each year on April 28. “Sixteen workers are killed on the job each day in America,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, Co-Chair of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus. “In my home, Los Angeles County, that means that, on average, one worker dies every three days. Every three days, one of our neighbors doesn’t come home from work to their families.” Tomorrow, millions of workers worldwide will recognize Workers’ Memorial Day in order to commemorate those who have been injured or killed on the job, and to remind us of the need to strive for better worker safety and health protections. “Now more than ever, we are reminded of those who put their lives on the line trying to earn an honest living for their families,” Sánchez said. “As we remember the miners who lost their lives in West Virginia, let’s continue to fight for the living. This resolution reminds us all to redouble our efforts to make it safe to go to work in America.” Rep. Sánchez also commended President Obama’s Labor Department, which has raised the profile of this issue and empowered the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to do much more than ask for compliance with voluntary standards. Just this week, OSHA implemented a new Severe Violator Enforcement Program which puts higher penalties on employers as a deterrent to get them to furnish safe and healthy workplaces for their employees.
04.23.2010	Linda Sánchez: "This is the most oppressive piece of legislation since the Jim Crow laws." Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) issued the following statement today following Arizona Governor Jan Brewer’s signing of SB 1070, which forces police officers to question anyone they “reasonably suspect” to be an illegal immigrant: “Arizona may as well have issued a law that says only light-skinned people who live or visit here have civil rights. This is the most oppressive piece of legislation since the Jim Crow laws. It’s a sad day for a country founded on freedom when one misguided state condones racial profiling into law to win a few more votes from the hate-monger wing of the Republican party.”
04.19.2010	Washington, D.C. -- California small businesses will be getting a little bit of good news in their mailboxes. Rep. Linda Sánchez said today that companies eligible for new health reform tax credits will be getting a postcard explaining the credits and encouraging them to take advantage of the tax cut. “This is the biggest health care tax cut in history,” Rep. Linda Sánchez said. “It’s important for Southern California small businesses to know it’s out there and they can start taking advantage of it immediately.” The tax credit is available to small businesses with 25 or fewer employees and an average wage of $50,000 or less that provide health insurance for their employees. Companies with 10 or fewer employees and an average wage of $25,000 or less get the maximum credit—35% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit rises to 50% in 2014. The tax credit is also available to small non-profits. For non-profits, the tax credit is worth up to 25% of what the employer is paying for employee insurance coverage. The maximum credit for non-profits rises to 35% in 2014. Rep. Linda Sánchez said the tax credit is especially important to getting the economy of California moving again. “There are 502,923 companies in California that meet the criteria for the tax credit,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This is going to make it a little easier for companies already offering insurance to afford it and will allow more small businesses to start providing health care coverage for their workers.” The tax credits are available now, beginning with this tax year (2010). Beginning this week, the IRS is mailing more than 4 million postcards to small businesses around the country to help ensure that they realize they may qualify for the credit immediately. The IRS provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions on the tax credits. View the postcard.
04.16.2010	“Today, we take a pause in our day to silently honor those who have been hurt by bullying and harassment,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Our kids, regardless of sexual orientation, should go to school to learn, not fear for their safety. Think about the voices you are not hearing today – what isn’t being said conveys a strong message.” The Day of Silence is a day in which students take a vow of silence to bring attention to the anti-lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) name-calling, bullying, and harassment faced by individuals in schools, including students, teachers, and other school staff. Congresswoman Sánchez spearheads a platform of bullying legislation including the “Safe Schools Improvement Act,” which will require schools receiving federal funding to enact policies to prohibit bullying and harassment, and allow them to use funds for resources to teach bullying prevention and intervention. “It’s a shame that recent teen suicides have been the loudest voices for change in the way we think about bullying,” continued Sánchez. “It’s time we combat the outdated belief that bullying is a harmless right of passage. It’s not. It’s literally a life and death issue.” Sánchez is also the sponsor of the “Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act,” and the “Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act.”
04.13.2010	Sánchez, also a Co-Founder of the House Trade Working Group, said, “In my district, I see the closed factories. I hear from my unemployed neighbors. And I know that you’re seeing it in your communities too. We must turn the American economy around.”Sánchez also called on Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner to take action on the Chinese currency problem, and the Office of the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to work to end illegal subsidies, and Customs and Border Protection to provide well-trained customs inspectors to enforce the rules of origin and other provisions in our trade agreements.“Our basic premise is that a trade policy that doesn’t work for working families doesn’t work for America,” continued Sánchez. “It’s not a question of trade promotion versus protectionism. The question is whether our trade policy promotes fair trade, which can benefit working families across the nation, or unfair trade, which benefits only the wealthiest few at the expense of the rest of us.”Sánchez stressed that efforts to clean up the trade pool must include strengthening alliances between U.S. manufacturers, labor, and environmental interests.“When I hear that the U.S. must provide additional trade preferences to nations with abusive labor records, I think of the old Vietnam era argument: “we had to destroy the village in order to save it.”“Here’s where I think we should go with preference reform.“We should add environmental standards.“We should strengthen labor standards.“We should make sure that when the USTR finds wrong doing, it has the flexibility and authority to suspend benefits for individual industries or even individual producers within industries to avoid punishing whole countries for the bad acts of a few.“Finally, we should ensure that we don’t use preference programs as a substitute for international development aid, including infrastructure development and investment in human capital so that our poorer neighbors can grow their own next generation of entrepreneurs.“I am working with my colleagues on Ways and Means to advance these proposals and am hopeful that some or all of them will be included in our preference reform package.“We need to demonstrate that trade policy is of interest to more than just stockholders in Fortune 500 corporations. It’s of interest to businesses small and large. To executives and middle managers. To workers and their families.“Together, we can accomplish more than we ever could in the old-style “pro-trade v. anti-trade” stand-off if we shed our stereotypes about the other side and work together to achieve common goals.“While our economy is growing again, and we’re no longer staring into an economic abyss, we must do more to ensure that the good news spreads to more sectors of the economy. We can’t let an increase in low-wage service jobs satisfy us.”
03.24.2010	To view Rep. Sánchez speech, click here. “I am pleased that this bill incorporates legislation I wrote to strengthen the low-income housing tax credit,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “A stable roof over a child’s head contributes to his or her education, emotional well-being, and overall physical health. This bill also invests billions to encourage small business growth and extends the highly successful Build America Bonds program, which has helped finance over $16 million for projects that create jobs while investing in schools, hospitals, roads, and bridges in California. And the jobs created pay a living wage.” Introduced by Rep. Sánchez, the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Exchange provision would allow investors in low-income housing credits to receive cash instead of a tax credit. This is important because many entities that invest in these credits do not currently have taxable income. Because of the recession, financial institutions that previously invested in these credits have no incentive to keep investing because they have no taxable income. This provision would promote the development of low-income housing by allowing investors to exchange otherwise unusable low-income housing tax credits for cash to be put toward the development of this housing. H.R. 4849 also extends the TANF Emergency Fund which States can use to subsidize employers, including small businesses, who hire unemployed workers. This Fund is currently on track to put over 160,000 Americans back to work, with more to come if extended. Rep. Sánchez also remarked on the effectiveness of the Build America Bonds (BABs) program, deemed to be one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes to create jobs and fund important projects in nearly every state in the nation. A detailed description of BABs including a State-by-State listing of BABs issuances through February 1, 2010 can be found here. Highlights of H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act include: · Extension of successful Build America Bonds · 100 percent exclusion of small business capital gains · Small business penalty relief · Increase in deduction for start-up expenditures · Extends the TANF Emergency Fund
03.21.2010	“Whether all Americans should have access to quality healthcare at a reasonable price is a question a century old. First raised by Teddy Roosevelt in 1912, then repeated by FDR, Harry Truman, and later presidents, the question almost answers itself. No nation can be strong whose citizens are sick and poor. To improve our economy, to care for our people, to fix our expensive and broken healthcare system, the time is now. “Truman argued that the principal reason why people could not receive the care they needed in 1946 was that they could not afford to pay for it. At the time, the cost of healthcare accounted for 4 percent of the nation's income. Today, the reason people don’t receive care most likely remains its unaffordability, but the aggregate cost of healthcare has since risen to 16 percent of the nation’s income. “Having grown up in a working family of seven kids, I know how important health insurance is. My parents couldn’t predict which of us might break a leg, need our tonsils out, or worse, but they could predict that without insurance, they couldn’t pay to get us the care we needed. There is no reason that hard working Americans should be priced out of needed healthcare. “Without doubt, this is not a perfect bill. It does not contain strong employer responsibility provisions or a public plan to provide real competition to private insurers. It cuts DSH payments for hospitals too much. It benefits states that have left some of their poorest citizens out of Medicaid without rewarding states like California that have been doing the right thing all along. “It contains an Independent Payment Advisory Board, which would severely limit Congressional oversight of the Medicare program and place authority within the executive branch, without Congressional oversight, judicial review, or state or community input. It also does something no bill has ever done beforeprohibits undocumented immigrants from spending their own money to buy private health insurance within an insurance exchange or marketplace. “But the bill’s strength - that it makes health insurance accessible and affordable for more than 30 million Americans who currently lack insurance - is so much more important than its weaknesses. “After fifteen months of hearings, meetings, debates, and ideas, the time has come for Congress to act to make healthcare better for all Americans. “I take this vote after much thought and consideration, not for any politician, but for my constituents who are anxious about whether they will be able to afford care for themselves and their children when they need it. For a nation as wealthy as America to have tens of millions of people without health insurance is shameful. “Even those who have insurance fear losing their jobs, and with it their insurance. Some are concerned that they will reach their annual or lifetime caps on coverage. Others are anxious that their insurance companies will simply drop them as soon as they get sick. “This bill, which my constituents have told me this nation desperately needs, will address a number of shortcomings in our current system. “In our current system, those who have insurance pay more to subsidize care for those who don’t have insurance. This bill changes that by requiring everyone to have basic health coverage. Everyone has a stake in improving public health. Currently, the uninsured don’t get preventive care, and once they’re sick, they wind up in the most expensive place to get treatment the emergency room. The large number of uninsured distorts our system, acting as a hidden tax on the insured. This bill repeals that hidden tax. “In our current system, those with pre-existing conditions are discriminated against. No child asks to be born with muscular dystrophy, juvenile diabetes, asthma, or Down Syndrome. Yet current law allows insurance companies to deny or limit their coverage. This bill fixes that injustice, protecting our children, and ensuring they can access coverage for life. “In our current system, some women pay twice as much as men for insurance simply because they are women. This bill will changes that so insurance companies will treat all people equally. “In our current system, Americans who work just as long and just as hard as their fellow citizens often lack insurance simply because they work for a small company instead of a large one. This bill addresses that too, by creating generous tax credits to small businesses to make insurance more affordable, and by creating affordability credits to help self-employed folks buy insurance at an affordable price in an insurance marketplace. “In our current system, healthcare costs are skyrocketing out of control. This bill will help rein in costs by paying doctors for quality, not quantity, and actually reduces the budget deficit, make our nation more fiscally stable. “Oh, and one more thing, in our current system, millions of Americans like their doctors and insurance companies. This bill allows you to keep them. Millions of Americans will see no change in this bill except for the added peace of mind that occurs when you are no longer at the mercy of an insurance company that can drop or deny coverage at the drop of a hat. “And I haven’t even mentioned the improvements to Medicare: closing the donut hole, eliminating co-payments on preventive tests, and reducing fraud and waste to extend the life of the Medicare Trust Fund. “Yes, anyone who looks at this bill can find something wrong with it. But I can’t remember the last time I voted on a perfect bill here in Congress. Just about every bill can be improved in one way or another. “On balance, this bill does what I came to Washington to do: to give a voice to average working people, whose voices are too often drowned out by the voices of moneyed interests. “Because I believe this bill would make America a stronger, more stable, healthier, fairer, and more just nation, I vote yes.” ###
03.18.2010	Washington, DC - Ways and Means Committee Member Linda Sánchez (CA-39) applauded the signing of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment (HIRE) Act by President Barack Obama today. The HIRE Act will create hundreds of thousands of new small business and construction jobs this year, spur private sector hiring, and help rebuild our crumbling infrastructure. This bill is just one step in a series of initiatives this Congress is taking to put Americans back to work and to restore the American economy. “This law will encourage businesses to hire and help put Americans back to work this year and it’s fully paid for to make sure that we do not saddle the next generation with the cost of these job-saving efforts,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “While this jobs bill is absolutely necessary, it’s by no means enough. There’s a lot more that we’re going to need to do to and bring about full economic recovery -- from helping small businesses to get loans that they need, to offering incentives to make homes and businesses more energy efficient, to investing in aging infrastructure so we can put Americans to work rebuilding roads, parks, and schools.” The HIRE Act includes a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers, to create some 300,000 jobs, and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. It also includes tax cuts to help small businesses invest, expand, and hire more workers, provisions to make it easier for states to take up infrastructure projects such as school construction and energy retrofitting, and continues requirements ensuring that a portion of the highway and transit funding goes to minority-owned businesses, which is especially important in our community. The bill includes the following provisions: New Tax Incentives for Businesses to Hire Unemployed Workers " Tax incentives for businesses to spur immediate job growth. A new payroll tax exemption to provide employers with incentives to hire and retain new employees. The bill provides businesses with an exemption from Social Security payroll taxes for every worker hired in 2010 who has been unemployed for at least 60 days. (The maximum value of this incentive is $6,621, which equals to 6.2 percent of wages paid in 2010 up to the FICA wage cap of $106,800.) The longer that a business has a new qualified worker on its payroll, the greater the tax benefit. The House amendments incorporate an IRS fix to make sure that small businesses can take advantage of the payroll tax holiday. " Bonus for Keeping Employees Long Term. Provides an additional $1,000 income tax credit for every new employee retained for 52 weeks. Spur Small Business Investments to Grow " Small Business Expensing. Extends Recovery Act provisions that double the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2010 from $125,000 to $250,000. This will help small business make the investments they need to grow and hire more workers. Highways and Infrastructure " School Construction, Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy. Expands Build America Bonds’ successful direct payment option to include the issuers of qualified school construction bonds, qualified zone academy bonds, clean renewable energy bonds, and qualified energy conservation bonds. " Transportation Extension. Extends surface transportation programs through December 31, 2010 to provide states and localities with the certainty they need to make decisions on capital-intensive projects and allow for billions more to be invested in infrastructure throughout the United States. It includes language continuing the application and enforcement of the minority-owned business enterprise contracting requirements for surface transportation projects. " Avoiding a Highway Shortfall & Bolstering the Trust Fund. Transfers approximately $20 billion from the General Treasury and to the Highway Trust Fund (HTF), as the HTF is estimated to run short of funds in June. This transfer will reimburse the HTF for interest it should have collected in the past and will allow the federal government to support existing federal highway and transit programs through the end of this year at the levels authorized for Fiscal Year 2009. " Critical to Job Creation. Every $1 billion in federal funds invested in infrastructure creates about 34,700 jobs. Given that construction-related manufacturing is operating at only 68 percent of capacity and has an unemployment rate of nearly 25 percent, these investment provisions will go a long toward our neighbors back to work. Offsets " Cracks down on Overseas Tax Havens. Provides the U.S. Treasury Department with significant new tools to find and prosecute U.S. individuals that hide assets overseas from the Internal Revenue Service. The bill would require new reporting by foreign financial institutions to give the IRS more data to detect fraud and tax evasion. " Delaying tax break for foreign interest payments. Delays for 3 years (through 2020) a questionable tax break enacted in 2004 that would let U.S. multinational companies that have shipped jobs overseas reduce their U.S. taxes by deducting more of their worldwide interest income against their U.S. income. This provision has not gone into effect, and not one company currently utilizes this provision. ###
03.17.2010	Washington, DC - The House Committee on Ways and Means today approved H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act, legislation to provide tax benefits to small businesses and extend effective financing measures to create jobs and improve America’s cities and towns. The Act includes a provision first introduced by Rep. Linda Sánchez to bolster the development of low-income housing. “It’s great that the Small Business and Infrastructure Job Tax Act includes my provision for promoting low-income housing,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This program will help spur investments in affordable housing so that more families can afford a home.” The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Exchange provision would allow investors in low-income housing credits to receive cash instead of a tax credit. This is important because many entities that invest in these credits don’t currently have taxable income. Because of the recession, financial institutions that previously invested in these credits have no incentive to keep investing because they have no taxable income. This provision would promote the development of low-income housing by allowing investors to exchange otherwise unusable low-income housing tax credits for cash to be put toward the development of this housing. “When we help our small businesses, we help our communities,” continued Sánchez. “This Act is just one effective step we are taking to address the number one priority of American families, creating new job opportunities.” Sánchez also highlighted the effective use of Build America Bonds (BABs), a program many have deemed one of the economic recovery effort’s biggest successes, to create jobs and fund important projects in nearly every state in the nation. A detailed description of BABs including a State-by-State listing of BABs issuances through February 1, 2010 can be found here. The House is expected to consider the legislation as early as next week. Highlights of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act include: " Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Exchange Program " Extension of successful Build America Bonds " 100 percent exclusion of small business capital gains " Small business penalty relief " Increase in deduction for start-up expenditures Please click here for a comprehensive listing of resources related to H.R. 4849, including bill text, technical descriptions and revenue estimates from the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT), as well as amendments offered during markup.
03.04.2010	“The Supreme Court’s decision opened up the floodgates for corporations to spend unlimited amounts of money on elections,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This amendment would protect our elections from corporate influence that can drown out the voices of average Americans.” On January 21, the Supreme Court ruled on Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. In a 5-4 decision, the Court ruled that, because corporations have the same rights as individual American citizens, corporate funding of independent political broadcasts in candidate elections cannot be limited. This means that special interests - from Big Oil to multinational prescription drug firms - can now spend unlimited funds on advertisements and independent expenditures aimed at influencing the outcome of American elections. The top three Fortune 500 companies in 2009 brought in an average profit of more than $27 billion. Last year, special interests spent $3.3 billion lobbying Congress. According to the nonpartisan group Common Cause, in every election this decade, candidates for Congress have raised more money from big donors and political committees and less money from small donors giving $200 or less. The 2008 election was the most lopsided yet: wealthy interests put in $8 for every $1 from small donors. Sanchez’ amendment would clarify the situations in which a corporation may be treated as a person under Federal law and would ensure that corporations would be subject to campaign finance laws and regulations. “Our democracy runs for the people, by the people - not by corporations with the most money,” continued Sánchez. “I want to make sure these companies play by a strict set of rules.” ###
02.24.2010	“The most successful affordable rental housing program in U.S. history has been badly affected by the economic crisis,” said Rep. Sánchez. “This program will help spur investments in affordable housing - which means working families will have an affordable home and developers can provide more jobs.” The financial crisis has reduced investment in the most successful affordable rental housing production program in U.S. history - the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (Housing Credit). This program is the primary resource for the development of affordable rental housing nationwide. Since 1986, the Housing Credit has financed 9 out of every 10 of America's apartments for low-income families, providing affordable housing to more than 2 million Americans. In addition, ensuring that this credit can continue to spur growth in affordable housing during this economic downturn will provide thousands of needed jobs in the decimated construction industry. “Providing a safe and stable home gives families the foundation to find employment, get an education, and play an active role in their communities,” continued Sánchez. “Investing in these credits is an investment in American families and will pay dividends for years to come.” Just before the financial crisis hit, the Housing Credit program financed about 120,000 apartments each year nationwide. In California, the Housing Credit financed 18,221 affordable rental homes annually. Due to the weakened economy, investor participation is down by more than a third from its peak in 2006. The Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Exchange Expansion and Job Creation Act of 2010 has the support of a statewide coalition of more than 2,000 nonprofit and local government housing organizations. ###
02.17.2010	“The staff at Long Beach Memorial and Miller Children’s Hospital Long Beach are impressive, caring individuals,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It’s amazing to see some of the most advanced technology in the world, like the da Vinci Surgical System’ being used here in Southern California.” Rep. Sánchez also held a roundtable discussion with doctors, nurses, parents, and patients to talk about healthcare reform and local medical concerns. “All around my district, there are new and disturbing examples of what the future will be like if Congress fails to enact comprehensive health insurance reform this year,” said Sánchez. “This hospital is a shining example of what we can do with more resources, quality insurance coverage, and better access.” “We greatly appreciate Congresswoman Sánchez visiting our hospitals to learn more about our programs and listen to our thoughts and concerns,” said Diana Hendel, chief executive officer, Long Beach Memorial and Miller Children’s Hospital Long Beach. “Her visit was also a welcomed surprise for our staff and patients’ families, who enjoyed meeting the Congresswoman.” Ways and Means Committee Member Rep. Linda Sánchez has worked to draft health insurance reform that will shift the power from insurance companies into the hands of consumers by lowering prices, increasing choice, and protecting Americans from abusive insurance company practices. According to a Washington Post poll released this month, Americans strongly support Congress continuing to work on comprehensive health insurance reform (63 percent support) - including a majority of Independents. The House and Senate continue to work to reach agreement on a health reform package, and President Obama will convene a bipartisan, bicameral meeting on February 25 to move forward with a solution for American Families and businesses. ###
02.05.2010	Legislation already has more than 20 original co-sponsors Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) and Congressman John Larson (CT-1), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced a resolution today in opposition to Republican plans to privatize Social Security. The resolution expresses the will of House Democrats to preserve Social Security and reaffirms our commitment to working in a bipartisan way to make common sense adjustments to strengthen the program for generations to come. “When the stock market crashed in 2008, it was apparent that the Republican’s push to privatize Social Security was a bad idea," Rep. Sánchez said. "Americans have not forgotten the dangers of tying their retirement security to the whims of Wall Street. It was a bad idea then, and it is a bad idea now. This resolution supports Americans who contribute all their working life to a retirement and want income security in their golden years.” “Republicans are dusting off their old playbook and re-hashing old ideas like the privatization of Social Security that the American people have already rejected," said Rep. Larson. "Their ideas would end the program as we know it and put the retirement security of millions of America’s seniors and workers at risk. My colleagues and I introduced this resolution to show the American people that we are standing with them and against these destructive ideas.” The resolution states: Social Security has provided the foundation for Americans’ retirement security for generations and should be preserved for generations to come. Social Security provides a guaranteed benefit that one can never outlive, and unlike private savings or investments, it is not subject to the ups and downs of the stock market. * Social Security is more much more than an individual retirement plan. It also provides income security for the spouses and minor children and workers who have become disabled. The American people made clear in 2005 that they did not seek drastic changes in Social Security when they resoundingly rejected President Bush’s attempt to privatize Social Security in favor or preserving a secure guaranteed foundation of retirement income free from risks and losses of the stock market. The Current minority party plan for Social Security is even more extreme than the plan they advanced in 2005. It cuts guaranteed Social Security retirement and survivor benefits for all workers. It diverts trillions from the trust fund into private accounts. It increases Federal borrowing by $4,100,000,000,000. It subjects worker’s basic retirement security to market volatility and the risk of losses. The resolution already has more than 20 original co-sponsors including, Rep. James Oberstar (MN-08), Rep. Pete Stark (CA-13), Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-08), Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-27), Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-01), Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51), Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Rep. Richard Neal (MA-02), Rep. John Yarmuth (KY-03), Rep. Danny Davis (IL-07), Rep. Shelley Berkley (NV-01), Rep. Ike Skelton (MO-04), Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-07), Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), Rep. Earl Pomeroy (ND- at large), Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12), Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03), Rep. Dave Obey (WI-07) and, Rep. Henry Waxman (CA-30), with many more members continuing to sign on. ###
02.01.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) commended President Barack Obama today for his inclusion of $330 million in funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), the federal program that reimburses states for the costs of incarcerating undocumented felons, in the FY 2011 Budget. “I commend President Obama’s plan to include SCAAP funding in the 2011 Budget,” said Rep. Sánchez. “After years of working to maximize funding that both Presidents Bush and Obama zeroed out in the past, I am pleased to see President Obama responding to Congressional priorities. It is important that California taxpayers don’t bear the entire burden of housing criminal aliens, when it should be the responsibility of the federal government.” SCAAP provides federal payments to states and localities to reimburse them for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens with at least one felony or two misdemeanor convictions for violations of state or local law, and incarcerated for at least four consecutive days during the reporting period. SCAAP was enacted in 1994, but funding was zeroed out under the Bush Administration. Rep. Linda Sánchez has worked tirelessly since then to ensure adequate funding for SCAAP, including legislation reversing a Bush Administration rule that limited reimbursement for post-conviction costs. ###
01.28.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39), Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, urged Californians to take full advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a credit for people who do not earn high incomes. The EITC continues to be one of America’s most powerful anti-poverty and work support programs. Each year, the credit helps approximately 24 million working families make ends meet, lifting nearly five million out of poverty. However, an estimated five to seven million eligible taxpayers nationwide do not claim benefits they are entitled to through the EITC. “In such dire economic times, it is more important than ever that eligible families take advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit,” said Rep. Sánchez, Member of the Ways and Means Committee, charged with overseeing the EITC. “EITC can reduce your taxes or give you a refund. If you’ve earned, claim it.” In an effort to help struggling families during this economic downturn, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 temporarily increased the EITC; expanded it for three or more children; and increased the amount of EITC benefits current beneficiaries receive, making over 650,000 new families and 1.3 million children eligible. Currently, families making up to $48,000 may qualify for the credit, which may be worth more than $5,600. “Because of the Recovery Act’s temporary EITC expansion and current economic conditions, it is likely that there are taxpayers who may be eligible for the EITC for the first time,” continued Sánchez. “I encourage my constituents to take advantage of free tax preparation sites and resources, including those provided by the IRS, to make sure that they receive the benefits they deserve this tax filing season.” Click here to visit the IRS EITC Central Website. ###
01.26.2010	Rep. Linda Sánchez urged her colleagues to join her in this important effort during a floor speech today, where she recognized two outstanding counselors from her district. “Angela Castellanos of Santa Fe High School in Whittier, CA and Alex Paredes of Southeast High School in South Gate, CA are just two examples of counselors who do exceptional work every single day to help our students reach their highest potential,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It is because of the unending dedication of counselors like Angela and Alex that children across our country succeed in becoming engineers, doctors, and even Members of Congress.” Sánchez noted that California’s student to counselor ratio is a dismal 945 students to one counselor almost four times the recommended ratio. School counselors play a vital role in the development of students on academic, social, and personal levels but unfortunately often find themselves the casualty of budget cuts. “Our counselors do amazing, and often unrecognized, work,” continued Sánchez. “Our communities are strengthened by the students who are championed by their school counselors. I hope that National School Counseling Week has a greater impact than just the recognition of outstanding counselors I hope that it helps policymakers recognize that, to do well inside the classroom, students often need extra assistance outside the classroom.” View Rep. Sánchez’ entire speech here ###
01.21.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39), introduced a congressional resolution today that will declare Feb. 1-5, 2010 “National School Counseling Week” to honor the important role school counselors play in the lives of students across the country. The student to counselor ratio is 475-1 nationally, and an appalling 945-1 in California. “I introduce this resolution every year because the critical role school counselors play in helping the students of today become the accomplished adults of tomorrow never diminishes,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I hope that the celebration of National School Counseling Week reminds budget writers across California’s school districts that students cannot achieve their best without the support of counselors to help them access tutoring services, choose the right classes and right college, and help them work through troubling emotional issues that threaten to derail their education. ” The bipartisan resolution, introduced along with Rep. Vernon Ehlers (R-MI), recognizes that school counselors have been integral in efforts to reduce student drop-out rates by helping identify and address problems early in a student’s career. The American School Counselor Association also endorsed this important resolution. This effort comes as a part of Rep. Sánchez’ drive to make schools safe, provide additional counseling and student support in low-income schools, and to improve school environments for personal growth and academic achievement. ###
01.13.2010	Washington, DC- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis announced today the release of $150 million in Pathways Out of Poverty training grants that will in part be awarded to Latino communities as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. These green jobs grants will support job training that will lead to well paying jobs in a new clean economy. “These grants are direct investments in working families in Los Angeles that will not only advance the energy security of our nation, but also the economic security of our families,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “With these green job training efforts, we can support innovation and lift people out of poverty.” “These ‘Pathways Out of Poverty’ grants will help workers in disadvantaged communities gain access to the good, safe and prosperous jobs of the 21st Century green economy,” said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. “Green jobs present tremendous opportunities for people who have the core skills and competencies needed in such well-paying and rapidly growing industries as energy efficiency and renewable energy.” The Los Angeles Community College District (LACCD) will serve the communities of Watts, Willowbrook, and Florence-Graham with $4,000,000 in funding that will train more than 900 participants in skills integral to the burgeoning green construction and retrofit industry. Jobs for the Future, Inc., which serves Los Angeles, will receive $7,997,936 in funding to provide basic education services and training for hundreds of participants to land green construction-related employment. In addition to education and job skills training, Pathways Out of Poverty grants emphasize the link between the knowledge and skills needed to land a job and the reliable transportation, child care, and other support needed to keep a job. Background on Recovery Act Pathways out of Poverty Grants: For individuals who are living below or near the poverty line the current economic downturn has created a unique set of challenges and has heightened the need to find pathways out of poverty and into employment. These individuals may lack basic literacy and job readiness skills and they may face other barriers to employment, such as the need for childcare or transportation. To assist individuals in meeting these challenges, the Department of Labor is investing in Pathways Out of Poverty grants, which will integrate training and supportive services into cohesive programs that will help targeted populations find pathways out of poverty and into economic self-sufficiency through employment in energy efficiency and renewable energy industries. Despite the economic downturn, these green industries present many potential opportunities for individuals to learn new skills and competencies, gain employment and advance along career pathways. In order to most effectively serve the specific populations targeted by these grants, the Department of Labor encouraged applicants to focus project efforts in communities located within one or more contiguous Public Micro Data Areas (PUMAs) where poverty rates were 15% or higher. PUMAs are geographic areas designated by the U.S. Census Bureau. These investments will prepare participants for employment within energy efficiency and renewable energy industries and are designed to: * Include sound recruitment and referral strategies for targeted populations; * Integrate basic skills and work-readiness training with occupational skills training, as necessary; * Combine supportive services with training services to help participants overcome barriers to employment, as necessary, and; * Provide training services at times and locations that are easily accessible to targeted populations. Thirty-eight awards ranging from approximately $1 million to $8 million each were made to two categories of grantees: (1) National non-profit organizations with networks of local affiliates; and (2) local public organizations or private non-profit organizations. In both categories, projects will be implemented at the community level by partnerships that include non-profit organizations, the public workforce system, the education and training community, employers and industry-related organizations, and labor organizations. ###
12.16.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced today that she has secured initial support for $1.6 million in federal funding for California State University Long Beach’s Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, a cutting-edge maritime and logistics research institution. The funds will support research on critical maritime military and commercial transportation issues, including the efficient movement of cargo through local ports, as well as the effectiveness of cargo port and supply chain security. The investment was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill which was passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then must be signed by President Obama to become law. “I am very pleased that the defense bill includes my request for key research projects at Cal State Long Beach,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “These investments are critical to developing and implementing green transportation technology that can provide us cleaner air and less crowded freeways.” Rep. Sánchez praised the work of the Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies in improving the movement of cargo to and from our ports and was pleased to be able to work with CCDoTT to ensure this funding emphasizes the development of environmentally-friendly technologies, including high-speed transportation that will help alleviate traffic and improve local air quality. Serving the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, the Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies is a U.S. Navy approved and supported research and development institution. The Center’s Agile Port and High Speed Ship Technology program, which will be funded by this appropriation, has become a research leader on dual-use civilian/military transportation technologies that will make the movement of goods and people more efficient. “As with all of our appropriations legislation, we have been looking closely at every line of our budget to eliminate and cut programs that aren’t working, and invest responsibly in key priorities that will protect our country and grow our economy,” added Rep. Sánchez. “Our budget for this year makes smart, needed investments in our communities that will promote long-term economic growth.” The Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill also makes a commitment to fiscal responsibility by reigning in outsourcing and putting Defense personnel, not contractors, in charge of critical department functions. At the same time, it will allow the Inspector General to hire additional investigators to ensure proper oversight of Department of Defense acquisition and contracting. To help Americans hit hardest by this recession, this bill also provides emergency relief by extending unemployment insurance, helping with health insurance premiums through the COBRA program, and funding for nutrition assistance programs to help families in need put food on their table. ###
12.15.2009	Washington D.C. - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and 25 other Members of Congress are urging the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to reject efforts by Chevron to threaten the cancellation of trade benefits for Ecuador because the oil giant faces a multi-billion dollar liability in the South American nation for allegedly dumping billions of gallons of toxic oil waste into the rivers and streams of the Amazon rainforest. A letter sent December 15 to USTR Ambassador Ron Kirk, says: “We write to express our concern about news reports indicating that Chevron Corporation continues to request that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) withhold U.S. trade preferences for Ecuador. We urge you to reject Chevron’s request and reaffirm that U.S. trade agreements will not be used as leverage to interfere in private claims processing through Ecuador’s legal process.” “Chevron pushing the Administration to take the extraordinary step of yanking special trade preferences for Ecuador turns the goal of the U.S. trade preferences program on its head,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Trade preferences should be used as a hand up to provide needed help to the families of developing nations, not a paddle to punish governments who refuse to succumb to the demands of multi-billion dollar corporations.” When it came to her attention that Chevron had been lobbying Members of Congress and the Obama Administration to punish Ecuador because its government refused to intervene in a private lawsuit, Rep. Linda Sánchez began an awareness campaign. Testifying before the Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee hearing on trade preference systems, Sánchez advocated for tens of thousands of indigenous Ecuadorians who have been seeking remediation from Chevron for more than fifteen years from a human and environmental tragedy to have their day in court. The population in the affected area suffers from high rates of cancer and birth defects, and too many mothers have experienced miscarriages and the loss of a child. “Rather than allowing this case to come to a conclusion, embarking on clean-up efforts, or even seeking mediation, Chevron has engaged in a lobbying effort that looks like little more than extortion,” continued Sánchez. “Apparently, if it can’t get the outcome it wants from the Ecuadorian court system, Chevron will use the U.S. government to deny trade benefits until Ecuador ‘cries uncle.’” Rep. Sánchez and her colleagues write: “We do not prejudge the outcome of the case, nor do we take a position on the litigation. We do believe, however, that the tens of thousands of indigenous residents of Ecuador who have brought this case deserve their day in court. We further believe that the USTR should not interfere in an ongoing judicial matter, particularly when this case involves environmental, health and human right issues that have a regional, and even global, importance.” Full text of the letter is below: December 14, 2009 The Honorable Ron Kirk United States Trade Representative 600 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20508 Re: Ecuador’s Inclusion in Andean Trade Preferences Benefits Dear Ambassador Kirk: We are writing to express our concern about news reports indicating that Chevron Corporation continues to request that the United States Trade Representative (USTR) withhold U.S. trade preferences for Ecuador. We understand that this request arises as part of an effort to quiet a legal claim brought against Chevron by some 30,000 Ecuadorians who reside in Ecuador’s northeastern Amazon region. We urge you to reject Chevron’s request and reaffirm that U.S. trade agreements will not be used as leverage to interfere in private claims progressing through Ecuador’s legal process. For nearly four years, Chevron Corporation has made similar requests of the United States Trade Representative’s Office (USTR). To its credit, USTR has rejected them. A judgment is expected sometime next year by the Ecuadorian court in a civil case in which the Ecuadorian plaintiffs allege that Texaco, subsequently acquired by Chevron dumped billions of gallons of toxic waste water into unlined pits and waterways in Ecuador’s Amazon forests while drilling for oil, resulting in severe human health and environmental problems in the region. We do not prejudge the outcome of the case, nor do we take a position on the litigation. We do believe, however, that the tens of thousands of indigenous residents of Ecuador who have brought this case deserve their day in court. We further believe that the USTR should not interfere in an ongoing judicial matter, particularly when this case involves environmental, health and human right issues that have regional, and even global, importance. We appreciate your consideration of our request that you continue your past policy of allowing the case against Chevron to unfold without pressure from the USTR. We look forward to hearing from you soon. Should you have any questions on this matter, please contact Celeste Drake in the office of Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) Lloyd Doggett (TX-25) Danny Davis (IL-7) John Lewis (GA-5) Jim McDermott (WA-7) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Bill Delahunt (MA-10) Sam Farr (CA-17) Raul Grijalva (AZ-7) Phil Hare (IL-17) Brian Higgins (NY-27) Steve Israel (NY-2) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) Barbara Lee (CA-9) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McGovern (MA-3) Michael Michaud (ME-2) James Moran (VA-8) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) John Olver (MA-1) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Pete Stark (CA-13) Betty Sutton (OH-13) ###
12.11.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez introduced an appropriations bill today for $4.75 billion in direct spending to create jobs in design, engineering, maintenance, repair, and construction in National Parks, Monuments, and Forests across the U.S. “There is one simple way to get Americans working again; by creating jobs where they are needed,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “My legislation is a two-pronged solution that addresses both an economic crisis and a backlog of work in our national parks.” Opportunities to improve roads, buildings, and other infrastructure exist in urban and rural areas across the nation, from the Theodore Roosevelt Birthplace in New York City and Fort Sumter in South Carolina to Cabrillo National Monument in San Diego and the Hiawatha National Forest in Michigan. The Public Lands Rehabilitation and Job Creation Act, H.R. 4291, will address years of underfunding and a growing number of projects on deferred maintenance lists. Investments in inventory, design, cyclic repair and maintenance, as well as major repairs and construction, will help break the logjam of work to be done. Experts project that an investment of $4.25 billion in the National Park Service and the Federal Highway Administration will create at least 45,650 park-based jobs, and that an investment of $500 million in the Forest Service will create an additional 7,250 forest-based jobs. The jobs will range from entry level to highly skilled. “Since January 2008, the number of unemployed Americans has grown each month and in my home state of California, the unemployment rate has reached more than twelve percent,” continued Sánchez. “These investments will do more than create jobs-they will make our infrastructure safer, our Parks more user-friendly, our water cleaner, and ecosystems stronger. Much like the Works Progress Administration (WPA) projects of the Great Depression era, the results will benefit Americans for generations to come.” The Public Lands Rehabilitation and Job Creation Act is supported by Wilderness CPR, the Wilderness Society, the National Parks Conservation Association, the American Equipments Distributors, and more. ###
12.10.2009	Most of these investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “This is great news for our community,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Students who are homeless or who have an incarcerated parent are the most vulnerable to being left behind. I am proud to help the East Whittier School District establish this program, which I believe will become a model for improving student retention and performance throughout the state.” These investments include: * $450,000 for Bus Shelters for City of Whittier: Congresswoman Sánchez secured federal funding to purchase and install ten bus shelters with solar lighting in the City of Whittier. The addition of these bus shelters will facilitate greater use of public transit. * $500,000 for the City of Whittier Emergency Operations Center: Funding will allow the City to construct a new facility that will house personnel, communications, and equipment to ensure continuity of operations in the event of a disaster, such as a wildfire or earthquake. The City’s current Emergency Operations Center is inadequate to serve the City’s needs, and this valuable investment will make the community safer and more secure. * $225,000 for East Whittier School District - Project Action Dropout Prevention Program: Funding will go toward the Project Action Drop Out Prevention Program to provide homeless children and the children of incarcerated parents with the out-of-classroom support they need to succeed inside the classroom. The funding will be used to create new staff positions to work to help identify resources for homeless children, provide services to meet their needs, and coordinate with an already existing mentoring program to give students of incarcerated parents access to mentoring programs. “It is a priority of mine to bring home federal funding that will invest in our own communities, especially for the education of our youth” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “During these tough economic times, smart investments in our children and workforce will yield great rewards for local families.” ###
12.10.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced today that she has secured initial support for over $3 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Long Beach area. Most of these investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “This funding is an important step to provide new opportunities for our students who need it most,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am also pleased to promote programs and initiatives that impact our environment in a positive way.” These investments include: Hawaiian Gardens: * $100,000 for Hawaiian Gardens Drop Out Prevention Program: These funds will expand an existing and successful drop-out prevention and intervention program. Funds will pay for school counselors who will focus on at-risk youth and provide classroom presentations, discussion groups, home visits, excursions, guest speakers, and homework assistance. The program will be a collaboration with ABC Unified School District and local city government to maximize resources so that local youth can achieve their potential. * $200,000 for Bus Shelters for City of Hawaiian Gardens: Congresswoman Sánchez secured funding to purchase and install eight bus transit shelters in the City of Hawaiian Gardens. The addition of these bus shelters will facilitate greater use of public transit. Artesia: * $250,000 for Solar Lights for Artesia Park: This federal funding will be used to install solar powered lights with battery backups to replace existing lights in several parks and adjoining parking lots. This project will lower greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the city’s long term energy costs. Long Beach: * $100,000 for Environmental Job Training Program for Youth At-Risk in Southeast Los Angeles County: Funding will expand a successful youth job training program that supervises, trains, and temporarily employs youth at-risk. This program gives high school age students and young adults jobs skills while performing environmentally-friendly projects that help the local community. Youth work on supervised local projects for park and playground construction and providing environmental clean-up. This program has a successful record of steering youth at-risk away from crime and towards well-paying, permanent jobs. “It is a priority of mine to bring home federal funding that will invest in our own communities, especially for the education of our youth” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “During these tough economic times, smart investments in our children and workforce will yield great rewards for local families.” ###
12.10.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced today that she has secured initial support for over $3 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Los Angeles County area. Most of these investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “This is terrific news for the region,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am particularly proud to help fund programs that address the needs of kids today for brighter futures tomorrow.” These investments include: * $150,000 for Food Banks in Southeast Los Angeles County - Community and Senior Services: to provide needed equipment to Food Finders, Inc of Long Beach and Interfaith Food Center in Whittier. These non-profit food banks serve communities of southeast Los Angeles County and funding will enable them to meet a growing need for their services among the recently unemployed and other vulnerable members of the community. * $225,000 for Gang Alternatives Program for Southeast Los Angeles County: for staff salaries and operating expenses to provide “Gang Alternative Program” courses at schools in southeast L.A. County that have large populations of youth at-risk of dropping out. The project will help reduce gang involvement and bullying in high-crime areas by providing educational seminars at public schools to 4th grade students and their parents on strategies to avoid gang involvement and bullying. Watts/Willowbrook: * Street Lighting Fixture Energy Efficiency Retrofit Project: Congresswoman Sánchez joined with several Los Angeles area colleagues to secure $500,000 to install energy-efficient lighting in the City of Los Angeles, $100,000 of which will be used in the Watts area. The City of Los Angeles will replace 250 existing streetlight fixtures in the Watts area of the city with Light Emitting Diode (LED) fixtures. LED fixtures will consume at least 40% less energy than the existing light fixtures and save the city an annual energy savings of $18,000. * $250,000 for Watts/Willowbrook Demonstration Project to Raise Breastfeeding Rates: These federal funds will help train obstetric and pediatric providers and staff of Watts Healthcare Corporation to incorporate best policies and research-based practices to teach and support breastfeeding to expectant and new mothers. The project will improve breastfeeding rates among underserved women in the Watts/Willowbrook area of Los Angeles County. Breastfeeding has been shown to reduce obesity, asthma, and other chronic diseases. * $250,000 for Business Training for Youth At-Risk in Watts/Willowbrook: These federal funds will go towards a program to teach an innovative Summer Youth Entrepreneurial Academy for high school youth and young adults in the Watts area. The program will train young people in businesses and economic principles and expose them to different career paths and entrepreneurial opportunities via field trips with business leaders throughout the greater Los Angeles area. Some of these youth may develop future internship opportunities, develop their own businesses, or simply benefit from the program in a profession of their choosing. The more interests and life skills young people have, the more alternatives they will have in life and the less likely they will be to turn to gangs and crime. “It is a priority of mine to bring home federal funding that will invest in our own communities, especially for the education of our youth” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “During these tough economic times, smart investments in our children and workforce will yield great rewards for local families.” ###
12.09.2009	Washington, DC - Ways & Means Committee member Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), introduced legislation today to amend the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the Recovery Act) to allow Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) to participate in the law’s energy grants program. “This simple change will allow more American businesses to benefit from investments in renewable energy projects while spurring job growth,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “An investment today will result in a lifetime of energy savings.” Congress created Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in 1960 to enable investors from all walks of life to own professionally managed, income-producing real estate. A REIT is a tax designation for an investor investing in income-producing real estate (such as apartments, health care facilities, hotels, offices, and warehouses) that reduces or eliminates corporate income taxes. In return, REITs are required to distribute at least 90% of their income into the hands of the investors. REITs provide similar advantages over other types of real estate investments to the advantages mutual funds provide over typical stock investments. “Because buildings represent almost half of all U.S. energy use, including 70% of all electricity use, providing incentives for businesses to engage in energy efficiency projects will significantly reduce energy use in America,” continued Sánchez. “This is a win-win approach to stimulating the economy, creating jobs, and protecting our environment.” Despite being designed for this purpose, the Energy Grants provision in the Recovery Act has been interpreted to benefit a REIT only to the extent it retains taxable income. Because most REITs distribute their entire income to investors, REITs have been unable to take advantage of these grants. By fixing this seemingly small oversight in the Recovery Act, this bill can have big effects in our community. ###
12.08.2009	Washington, DC -- Members of the Congressional Task Force on Job Creation commended President Obama today on the proposals he laid out today to accelerate job growth and lay the foundation for robust economic growth. The jobs creation task force is a group of 20 members, co-chaired by Congresswoman Betty Sutton (OH-13) and Congressman Alcee Hastings (FL-23), working together to gather and review ideas for legislation that will create jobs and put our economy on sound footing for the future. Congresswoman Linda Sanchez (CA-39): “I applaud President Obama for working with Congress on proposals to create jobs immediately and help out our working families,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “When the economy is in a crisis, our priority should be to support families and put Americans back to work. As a member of the Congressional Task Force on Job Creation, I am advancing proposals with this in mind, from job-creating tax policies to direct-hire jobs programs to rebuild our infrastructure and conserve our resources.” Congresswoman Betty Sutton (OH-13) , Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Job Creation: “Far too many Americans across the country are without a job and many more continue to worry about what tomorrow will bring. Today, President Obama made it clear that he agrees with House Democrats that now is the time for bold efforts to create jobs, employ our workers, and rebuild our economy so that it will work for and with America's workers and businesses. “I have heard it said that 'we are in a jobless recovery,’ but I assert that there is no such thing. There cannot be a meaningful 'recovery’ until and unless my constituents have access to jobs that will enable them to provide for themselves and their families. I share the President’s belief that we must invest in our nation’s small businesses and give them the tools they need to grow and hire new workers. I also agree with the President that now is the time to secure our nation’s infrastructure by making key investments to modernize our roads, bridges and infrastructure. “As Co-Chair of the Democratic Caucus’ Congressional Task Force on Job Creation, I am focused on bringing new and innovative ideas to the table that will put Americans back to work and restore the promise of the middle class. I look forward to working with the Administration, House and Senate Leadership and my colleagues to take immediate, smart and effective steps to create jobs and help facilitate rapid re-employment for our constituents.” Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus: “President Obama made clear today that he is standing with House Democrats as we invest in the American people and put middle class Americans back to work. We know families are hurting not just from the recent recession, but from decades of an economy that allowed the wealthiest to prosper but squeezed the middle class between rising costs for health care, education and other basic necessities and stagnant wages. By investing in small businesses, the engines of job growth, and our local communities, we will continue to rebuild the economy so that it puts working families first. “A jobless recovery is not acceptable, and we will do everything we can to create good-paying American jobs and put people back to work. I am glad President Obama agrees with proposals set forth by House Democrats to use returning TARP funds to pay for job creation legislation. It is time for Wall Street to help rebuild Main Street. We will take steps in the coming weeks to make sure that happens.” Congresswoman Dina Titus (NV-03): “When I was sworn into office nearly one year ago, our country lost more than 700,000 jobs in one month alone. Since that time we have taken numerous steps to address the economic crisis we inherited. While we have seen signs that we are moving in the right direction, our work is far from done. Families in Southern Nevada are still struggling to find work and make ends meet. “Today, President Obama made it clear that job creation must be our top priority moving forward. With Nevada’s unemployment still at record levels, action is needed to get people back to work. President Obama outlined a number of ideas, from strengthening small businesses so they can once again become engines of growth in our community to investing in energy efficiency that will create clean energy jobs. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues to put Nevadans back to work and grow our economy.” Congressman Paul Tonko (NY-21): “The President made it clear today that creating jobs for Americans is our number one priority, and I wholeheartedly agree. While House Democrats have already taken steps to stabilize the economy and slow down the rate of job loss, especially as indicated through the Recovery Act, there is a broad agreement that more needs to be done. “We need to continue what we started by making it easier for small businesses to create and sustain jobs, by investing and improving in our aging infrastructure, and by focusing on energy projects big and small whether we’re making our homes more energy efficient or providing research and development funds that will lead to breakthrough developments in the clean energy technology of the future. I will continue to work with the President, leadership in the House and our local elected officials and business leaders to create jobs. This will lay the groundwork for an economy built on innovation, entrepreneurs and ideas that will include clean energy jobs at the forefront, helping make America even stronger than before.” Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-08): “Today President Obama has given us another indication that he is leading the nation in the right direction out of this economic mess that he inherited. At this time, Congress is working with President Obama and his economic advisers to take the necessary and responsible steps to speed up job creation and economic growth,” said Pascrell, a member of the Congressional Task Force on Jobs Creation who met today with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner in an effort to find common ground with the administration. “I am glad to hear the President support my position that we find a way to use some of the Troubled Asset Relief Program money to provide small businesses with the help they need the most: easier access to credit and labor in order to remain liquid and increase productivity,” Pascrell said. “At the same time, President Obama is not neglecting the national deficit and is working to make significant efforts to get our spending under control. I applaud President Obama’s focus on these key issues. These are the common-sense principles that the best Main Street businesses have been built upon.” ###
12.08.2009	Washington, DC - Ways and Means member Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), along with Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), introduced a bi-partisan bill today to restore a provision that enables tax-exempt bonding for “air and water pollution control facilities,” so that facilities can readily pay for the clean air and water technology necessary to meet rising Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) standards and reduce their impact on the environment. “As we continue to look for ways to assist businesses and local governments in their efforts to reduce pollution, these bonds provide an affordable solution that puts people to work while providing cleaner and healthier communities,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This is a smart and cost effective way for Congress to increase industries’ investment in air and water pollution control facilities.” This authority was previously available (prior to 1986) and proved so effective that even facilities that were “grandfathered” - and not subject to clean air standards - opted to update their pollution controls voluntarily. According to the EPA, as of 2005, there were 474 counties in thirty-two states,including Los Angeles, CA that had not yet met clean air standards for ozone, and additional counties and states had not met carbon monoxide or particulate standards either. Many states have also increased their enforcement of total maximum daily loads for water pollution. Considering the growing number of ill health effects linked to environmental conditions, and the uncertainty surrounding the global climate, clean air and water standards have continued to rise. This in turn has increased the demand and cost of pollution control technologies needed for clean industrial air and water emissions. Ironically, since 1986, state and local governments have not been able to provide tax-exempt financing to privately owned air and water pollution control facilities, despite its demonstrated success. The Clean Air and Water Investment Act would return to state and local agencies the power to provide federal tax exempt bonding to industries to help ensure healthier and safer communities for American families. Furthermore, the bill does not present any added cost to the taxpayer nor any new liability to the U.S. Department of Treasury because it is subject to a pre-existing cap on private activity bonds. As of 2005, this cap held over $18 billion in un-allocated funds. “By allowing state agencies to access this surplus, my bill represents a cost-effective and sensible approach to help American businesses minimize their impact on our environment,” continued Sánchez. ###
12.04.2009	Washington, DC - Committed to strengthening America’s middle class and creating new jobs, the Populist Caucus today sent a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer encouraging them to pass a strong jobs bill to expand the infrastructure investments previously made as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“As members of the Populist Caucus, a Caucus dedicated to job creation, we urge you to pass a strong jobs bill that will build upon the infrastructure investment in the Stimulus Package and create good paying, quality jobs for America’s hard working men and women,” the letter states. “We believe that despite economic growth, it is clear that Americans on Main Street are still suffering. The country needs a strong jobs bill that focuses on Main Street workers and small businesses, which are the driving force of our nation’s economy.”The letter was signed by 19 members of the Populist Caucus, including Chairman Bruce Braley (IA-01), and Vice Chairs Keith Ellison (MN-05) and Betty Sutton (OH-13). Other Populist Caucus members signing the letter were Reps. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Bob Filner (CA-51), Leonard Boswell (IA-03), Mike Michaud (ME-02), Linda T. Sanchez (CA-39), Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), Phil Hare (IL-17), Mazie K. Hirono (HI-02), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Steve Kagen (WI-08), Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Peter Welch (VT-At Large), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Jackie Speier (CA-12) and Tom Pierello (VA-05).The full text of the letter is below:December 4th, 2009The Honorable Nancy PelosiSpeaker, U.S. House of RepresentativesH-232, U.S. CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515The Honorable Steny HoyerMajority Leader, House of RepresentativesH-107, U.S. CapitolWashington, D.C. 20515Dear Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer,Thank you both for your continued leadership during these tough economic times. As members of the Populist Caucus, a Caucus dedicated to job creation, we urge you to pass a strong jobs bill that will build upon the infrastructure investment in the Stimulus Package and create good paying, quality jobs for America’s hard working men and women.As you know, at the beginning of November it was reported that the nation’s unemployment rate had risen to 10.2%. This was the first time since 1983 that the unemployment rate had risen above 10%. This comes with a net loss of 219,000 jobs in September and a net loss of 190,000 jobs in October, which was the 22nd month of consecutive job loss. We believe that despite economic growth, it is clear that Americans on Main Street are still suffering. The country needs a strong jobs bill that focuses on Main Street workers and small businesses, which are the driving force of our nation’s economy.We urge you to pass a strong jobs bill that focuses on increasing employment opportunities for the millions of Americans that are out of work. Please feel free to contact any of us if we can provide further assistance.Sincerely,Bruce BraleyKeith EllisonBetty SuttonMarcy KapturBob FilnerLeonard BoswellMike MichaudLinda T. SanchezLloyd DoggettPhil HareMazie K. HironoHank JohnsonSteve KagenDave LoebsackCarol Shea-PorterPeter WelchJohn YarmuthJackie SpeierTom Pierello###
12.04.2009	Congresswoman Linda Sánchez has worked hard over the years to secure federal funds for many outstanding projects and programs focused on improving and empowering the communities of the 39th Congressional District through the appropriations process in Congress.Below you will find a complete list of the projects and programs for which Congresswoman Sánchez has requested federal authorization through the Water Resources Development Act of 2010.Artesia, Fire Flow Capacity: Construction and installation of a new water main and fire hydrant along 183rd Street from Gridley Road to Roseton Avenue.Amount Requested: $700,000Cerritos, C-5 Well: Funding will be used to complete construction of a potable drinking water well (C-5) providing additional drinking water for City of Cerritos.Amount Requested: $3,400,000Lakewood, Construction of new reservoir and water treatment plant: City of Lakewood will demolish aging reservoir, construct a replacement, build a drinking water treatment plant, and replace five miles of sewer pipes.Amount Requested: $9,900,000Long Beach, Los Angeles River Debris Study: Funding will allow Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a study of what technology and practices would better address waterborne debris originating in the Los Angeles River.Amount Requested: $2,000,000Long Beach, Mitigation Credit for Cerritos Wetlands: A change in port mitigation rules to allow the Port of Long Beach to get credit for efforts to improve the Los Cerritos Wetlands in Long Beach. Long Beach has been working with the Army Corps of Engineers to develop a wetlands mitigation plan that would enable the Port of Long Beach to receive mitigation credit for improvements to the Los Cerritos Wetlands. The high elevation and unique tidal regime of the site limit the amount of port mitigation credit such a restoration would generate under current federal mitigation rules.Amount Requested: $0Los Angeles County, Storm Drain Study: Designs for conservation, pollution control, and recreation purposes in the Los Angeles County unincorporated area of Willowbrook adjacent to Mona Park.Amount Requested: $6,000,000Los Angeles County, Local Water Replenishment Project: Construction of a groundwater replenishment system facility that aims to eliminate reliance on imported water for Southeastern Los Angeles County.Amount Requested: $20,000,000Los Angeles County, San Gabriel River Watershed Study: Funding will be used to carry out five demonstration projects in the San Gabriel River Watershed to develop a plan to enhance the watershed's resources.Amount Requested: $50,000,000Lynwood, Storm Drain Installation: The funds would be used to install a new storm drain and catch basin along Long Beach Boulevard.Amount Requested: $2,000,000South Gate, Design and construction of new reservoir: Design and build a new water reservoir in an aging South Gate city well. Project includes a new water booster station to increase water pressure.Amount Requested: $6,000,000The Water Resources Development Act will be considered by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee before moving to the House floor, then to the Senate. Throughout the process Rep. Sánchez will continue to fight to secure authorization for these important programs which will improve the quality of drinking water; increase our water storage capacity; rebuild our infrastructure; protect our environment, and enhance our firefighting capabilities in Southeast Los Angeles County.###
11.25.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez and her husband, Jim Sullivan, attended President Barack Obama’s first state dinner Tuesday night at the White House. The formal dinner honored Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India and the Indian people for their friendship and bond with America.“I was honored to receive an invitation to such a noteworthy event,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “As the world’s largest democracies, the United States and India can work together to advance our shared goals of respect and dignity to build a better future. The event highlighted a strong and growing economic and political partnership as well as a friendship between our two countries.”The state dinner was held Tuesday evening in the East Room of the White House. The dinner concluded a visit by Prime Minister Singh where he and President Obama agreed to increase cooperation on security, battling terrorism, and other issues.Click here for more information on Prime Minister Singh’s visit.###
11.19.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Sánchez voted to preserve seniors’ access to their doctors by fixing the way Medicare pays physicians. The Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act will permanently reform the Medicare payment system, repealing a 21% cut in payments to doctors scheduled to take place in January and replacing it with a stable system that protects seniors, preserves their relationship with their doctors, and promotes primary care.“By fixing this system in a responsible way we are ensuring that our seniors have reliable access to their doctors and the primary care they need,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Medicare is not a handout, it is a benefit that our seniors have earned, and this bill takes crucial steps toward strengthening it and providing the highest quality of care and benefits for retired and disabled Americans.”This bill tackles seniors’ main concern - preventing pay cuts that could encourage doctors to stop seeing Medicare patients. It builds on the historic health insurance reform bill the House passed earlier this month, which will lower premiums, extend the solvency of Medicare by five years, improve preventive and primary care for seniors, and close the “donut hole” drug coverage gap.“For California’s seniors and those with disabilities, this is no abstract issue,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Access to a doctor can mean everything for them: independence, hope, and security. This bill will lower costs and improve care for seniors, who put in a lifetime of hard work to make this country great.”To underscore a commitment to reduce the deficit, the House attached statutory “pay-as-you-go,” or PAYGO, legislation to the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act before sending it to the Senate. By joining statutory PAYGO with legislation fixing Medicare physician payments, it makes PAYGO more credible and effective - avoiding the need to waive it for current policies that Congress and the President have already agreed should be extended - and sending a clear message that we are committed to fiscal responsibility.“This is a direct example of Congress fulfilling a commitment to honest budgeting, and by permanently fixing the way doctors are paid we are putting a stop to budget gimmicks,” said Rep. Sánchez. “We’re also reminding the American people, as well as the U.S. Senate, that new policies must be paid for.”With statutory PAYGO in place, all new tax and entitlement policies must be offset, restoring fiscal discipline and bringing down the deep deficits that face our nation. By enacting statutory PAYGO, Democrats are putting an end to the reckless “borrow-and-spend” policies of the Bush Administration and the Republican Congress and reinstating the principle that led us from record deficits to record surpluses in the Clinton Administration.###
11.18.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted to provide local firefighters more tools and resources to prevent and fight fires, and keep our communities safe. At a time when many towns and cities are facing budget shortfalls and cuts to basic services, the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act invests in vital assistance programs that allow local fire departments to provide training, purchase equipment and vehicles, and hire personnel.“Our local firefighters must have the best training and equipment at their disposal to keep our communities safe,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez.The bipartisan legislation authorizes a total of $2.2 billion a year in grants for local municipalities to upgrade crucial equipment and maintain adequate levels of personnel. It also makes it easier for local fire departments to access these funds by lowering matching requirements and modifying time commitments.Ever since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, fire departments and first responders across the country have been overstretched taking on even more responsibilities to respond to possible terrorist attacks, as well as preventing and fighting fires. This legislation will give our fire departments the critical resources they need to address these threats.“This bill provides critical funding to safeguard our homes, our neighborhoods, and - first and foremost - our families,” said Rep. Sánchez. “State and local governments may be facing falling revenues and shrinking budgets, but they should never have to choose between adequately trained personnel and functioning equipment. This bill protects against that.”The bill has the support of the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the National Fire Protection Association, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute.The bill now heads to the Senate, where it awaits final passage before heading to President Barack Obama for his signature. For more information on how to apply for a grant, visit the Department of Homeland Security’s Firefighter’s Grant Program website or contact Rep. Linda Sánchez’ local office at 562.860.5050.###
11.17.2009	Washington D.C. - Ways and Means member Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) testified today before the Trade Subcommittee hearing on trade preference systems. Rep. Sánchez, a long time advocate for a new trade model, took the opportunity to discuss what works about U.S. trade preferences policy as well as what does not.“As we re-examine our preference systems, I urge the Committee to explore options for holding nations accountable for protecting the rights of working families,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “We must examine our trade preferences with a focus on shared prosperity. We should encourage development with dignity. We should shape preferences programs to promote labor rights and a clean environment, which will help build economic opportunity both here and abroad.”America’s preferences programs have a laudable goal: to assist developing countries in their efforts to build up domestic industries, increase exports, and alleviate poverty. In some cases, the preferences appear to have been wildly successful. In others, the preferences have been less successful - at least from the point of view of working families.Speaking on reports that some countries engage in policies that deny workers freedom of association, Sánchez said, “Encouraging and rewarding such abhorrent human rights policies with trade benefits is contrary to what America stands for, and not only harms families abroad, but also those struggling to make a living here at home.”According to a petition filed with the United States Trade Representative, the government of the Republic of the Philippines has engaged in policies that deny workers freedom of association as guaranteed under International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention 87, and has undermined the ability of workers to form and join unions in violation of ILO Convention 98. The petition also accuses the Philippine government of involvement in extra-judicial killings and abductions of union leaders, members, organizers, and supporters through elements of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, the Philippine National Police, local police forces, and private security forces.“Given such reports, which are not limited to the Philippines, I strongly believe that it is appropriate to re-examine our approach to preference system creation and renewal,” continued Sánchez.Rep. Sánchez also discussed Ecuador, a nation in which our trade policies may be leaving working families behind. The Chevron Corporation, in the midst of a multi-billion dollar lawsuit brought on by indigenous Indian peasants, has been accused of dumping billions of gallons of toxic oil wastes into the region’s rivers and streams, causing extraordinary environmental and human damage. Chevron has been pushing - first the Bush Administration - and now President Obama’s, to take an extraordinary step by yanking special trade preferences for Ecuador if the country’s government doesn’t quash the case.Texaco, now Chevron, began its oil operations roughly 40 years ago in a once pristine region of the Amazon rainforest. Today, this region, the size of Rhode Island, struggles to deal with an environmental and humanitarian crisis. More than 1,400 residents have died from cancer, birth defects are prevalent, and the region suffers from water contamination, rainforest deforestation, and ecosystem degradation. The inhabitants of the region still drink and bathe in polluted water.“There are innumerable stories I could share from the 230,000 people who live along the oil fields in northern Ecuador,” Sánchez testified. “Too many children have cancer and, as a result, too many parents have to experience the ultimate heartbreak - the death of a child.“Instead of allowing this case to come to a conclusion, embarking on clean-up efforts, or even seeking mediation, Chevron has engaged in a lobbying effort that looks like little more than extortion. Apparently, if it can’t get the outcome it wants from the Ecuadorian court system, Chevron will use the U.S. government to deny trade benefits until Ecuador cries uncle.“This turns the goal of trade preferences on its head! Trade preferences should be used as a hand up to provide needed help to the families of developing nations, not a paddle to punish governments who refuse to succumb to the demands of multi-billion dollar corporations.“It’s well past time to reform our trade policies so that they work for working families. We must abandon the naïve view that free trade alone is an economic development policy.“If poor countries have opportunities to build up their middle class, it creates new consumers for U.S. products.“Trade preferences must be combined with other forms of assistance that will help countries to sustain themselves and develop the infrastructure and capacity they need to fully take advantage of the trade preference programs the U.S. offers and the world market at large.”To read more about Chevron’s lobbying efforts in the Ecuador case, click here.###
11.13.2009	Whittier, CA - Rep. Linda Sánchez helped kicked off a middle school football game yesterday by tossing the pre-game coin. Dexter Middle School’s afterschool program, Club Dexter, hosted Rep. Linda Sánchez to show appreciation for over $238,000 in funding received for the program, which allows Club Dexter to provide students a safe place to get help with homework, play sports, and participate in arts and crafts activities and field trips. “I am pleased to bring home funds that help out amazing programs like Club Dexter,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It’s programs like these that make my job as a Member of Congress worthwhile.” The funding also helped the City of Whittier expand other services at the school, including a new sports program for middle school students. Club Dexter is coordinated by the non-profit SKILLS Foundation and features a homework club, intramural sports program, arts and crafts activities, and field trips. In addition, funding has also be used to pay for staffing and online resources at the Whittier Library Homework Center. Rep. Linda Sánchez spoke to seventh and eighth graders from Dexter Middle School, telling them, “I encourage you to believe in yourself and remember that there are no bounds on what you can do. The school campus and the county line should be no restriction on your dreams. If you want to go to Washington, like me, to help the country, you can. If you want to become a business person who travels overseas or join NASA and travel to space, you can.” In Congress, Rep. Sánchez has launched her “Safe Kids Initiative,” a series of bills designed to keep kids safe in the schoolyard and online, and making sure all kids have access to counselors, psychologists, and social workers.
11.11.2009	Cerritos, CA - Rep. Linda Sánchez gave the following remarks at the City of Cerritos Veteran’s Day Celebration November 11, 2009: “I am honored to be here as we commemorate the bravery, sacrifice, and service of our nation’s veterans, particularly those right here in our community. “Those of you who serve, and those who remain behind, deserve our deepest gratitude for your sacrifice. For putting our nation’s interests above your self-interest. For defending our Constitution, our country, and our way of life. And for your commitment from the time of enlistment and throughout the rest of your lives. You have earned our support. “I am grateful that each year, our nation sets aside a day to honor our servicemen and women, who serve both at home and abroad, who volunteer to put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms that we take for granted. Certainly, you deserve our thanks every day, but Veterans Day reminds us to give the thanks that we owe daily. “As a nation, we have been good at honoring our men and women in the Armed Forces with commemorative holidays, parades, and medals. But we have not always been good at fulfilling our promises to our veterans. “While our warm words of thanks are warranted, they are not enough. “We owe a sacred trust to every man and woman who wears the uniform of the United States of America. We owe them the best care they were promised, and the benefits and support that they have selflessly earned. “We must ensure that during their service and after, they don’t need to also fight bureaucracies to receive GI benefits, healthcare, or pension payments. “We have an obligation to meet the needs of our returning veterans and their families by providing care and support for both the physical and emotional wounds, as well as educational and employment assistance to help make the transition to civilian life successful. “I am especially proud that Congress has passed legislation this session that honors those commitments by providing the largest funding increase for health care ever requested by a President or veterans organizations. “This funding has strengthened health care through the addition of 17,000 new doctors and nurses, more community-based outpatient clinics and new Vet Centers, expanded mental health screening and treatment, and improved access for veterans in rural areas. “I am proud that the new Post 9-11 GI Bill, which went into effect in August, provides the opportunity for a full, four-year college education, and that this benefit is transferable to family members, including to all children of those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, regardless of the length of military service of the parent. “During these tough economic times, Congress has enacted a military pay raise, tax credits for businesses who hire unemployed veterans, tax cuts for servicemembers and families, disabled veterans relief, stop-loss payments, help for military families harmed by the housing crisis, expanded homeownership opportunities, and tuition assistance and training opportunities for military spouses seeking careers that can be maintained as they move from station to station. “These efforts are just a few of the investments Congress is making in our servicemembers. We must keep working to fulfill our promises to those who protect of us. We must keep our promises to those who have kept theirs. “While we may not all agree with a President’s decision to use or not to use military force in a given situation, we can agree that those who answered the call of service and sacrifice to our country deserve our support and gratitude. The debt we owe to them is immeasurable. “Our servicemembers and their families deserve to have all the tools necessary while on active duty, and those needed to resume their lives when they return. I will continue to fight in Congress to ensure that we keep our promises and commitments to you - our nation’s heroes. Rep. Linda Sánchez is the sponsor of legislation to provide long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans for their dedicated service to our country by designating March 30 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” March 30 marks the day when the last U.S. troops completed their service in Vietnam.
11.10.2009	i-SAFE project started with $190,000 federal funds secured by Sánchez Whittier, CA Rep. Linda Sánchez spoke to students and teachers at Nelson Elementary School today on the dangers of cyberbullying. Rep. Sánchez secured $190,000 in federal funding for i-SAFE, Inc., a non-profit foundation, to provide anti-bullying , internet safety programs, training and a mobile computer lab at Los Nietos School District. “Words that didn’t exist just a couple of years ago, including “sexting,” and “textual harassment,” describe the new ways people use technology to hurt, harass, and humiliate others,” continued Sánchez. “That is why schools need online safety programs, like the i-SAFE curriculum, to help keep our children safer and on the right track in school.” i-SAFE incorporates classroom curriculum with community outreach to empower students, teachers, parents, law enforcement, and concerned adults to make the internet a safer place. With the federal funding, i-SAFE provides a comprehensive program that includes grade level appropriate cyber safety curriculum, professional training of Los Nietos staff, and student and parent assemblies. “I know, from meeting with kids, moms and dads, teachers, and police officers that more and more young people and being bullied online,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Bullying is not a harmless prank or rite of passage. It is dangerous, both physically and mentally.” Rep. Sánchez encouraged the students to use their MySpace, Facebook, and cell phones in a smart way, reminding them that once they put their words out, they can never get them back. Rep. Sánchez is also the sponsor of federal legislation titled, the “Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act,” (H.R. 1966), which would give federal prosecutors the ability to punish cyberbullies who engage in repeated, hostile, and severe electronic communication made with an intent to harm.
11.07.2009	Legislation Covers 96 percent of Americans, Reduces the Deficit Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over healthcare, joined her colleagues tonight to vote for the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962). Rep. Linda Sánchez gave the following statement: “I vote on behalf of the nearly 50 million Americans who don’t have health insurance. “On behalf of parents who have to choose between taking their sick child to the doctor and paying the electric bill on time. “On behalf of adult children who are slowly losing their parents to Alzheimer’s, and yet can’t afford the quality care their parents need. “In a Nation as prosperous as ours, it is a shame and a tragedy that so many families suffer, watching their loved ones die, when timely tests or early care could have prevented it. “American families have waited too long for the freedom and security that universal healthcare can provide. “I strongly support H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act because this legislation tells families yes. “Yes, they can afford high quality health care. “Yes, they can get health insurance even if they have a pre-existing condition. “Yes, they can expect to be treated fairly by insurance companies, regardless of their gender or age. “Yes, they can keep their health insurance, even if they get sick. “And yes, we can pass health reform that protects and strengthens our economy by encouraging development and use of health information technology, generic drugs, and advanced medical devices. “It’s well past time for Congress to make sure that an unforeseen illness or accident doesn’t mean economic ruin for American families. To stop the abuses of health insurance companies, who play games instead of paying for health care. To ensure that Americans have the freedom to change jobs or to become entrepreneurs, instead of being locked into a job they hate because it is the only way they can afford healthcare. “I worked to make sure this bill bars insurance companies from charging women more just because they are women. “I worked to make sure that this bill creates Collaborative Care Networks, to ensure that doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers work together to provide working families, lower income Americans, and those with chronic conditions the high quality coordinated care they need to stay healthy and out of emergency rooms. “I worked to make sure this bill includes, among the choices it offers consumers, a public option that will focus on health care, not profits. “I’m proud of my work on this bill, because it means American families and businesses will have the peace of mind that comes with knowing they can access affordable, quality care when they need it. “It means that my son Joaquin can grow up in a country that is a little fairer, a little more humane, and a little more secure than the one I grew up in. “I vote for children and families by supporting this bill.” The legislation passed today will cover 96% of Americans and guarantees stability, lower costs, higher quality, and a greater choice of plans for all Americans. It puts you and your doctor not the insurance companies in charge of your health care decisions. If you have insurance, this bill: * Keeps your insurance company from denying you care or coverage - or charging you more - because of diabetes, heart disease or any other “pre-existing condition.” * Gives you peace of mind that you won’t lose coverage if you lose your job, move, or change jobs. * Prevents insurance companies from dropping you because you get “too sick.” * Covers preventive care with no co-pays or deductibles. * Limits out-of-pocket expenses your insurance company can make you pay. If you don’t have insurance, this bill: * Lets you comparison shop for a quality, affordable health plan through a new health insurance marketplace. * Offers you low group rates even for individual coverage. * Helps lower your premiums with affordability credits for those who need help paying. * Prevents any insurance company from denying you coverage for heart disease, diabetes or another “pre-existing condition.” * Extends coverage for young Americans, allowing them to stay on their parents’ health insurance plans up to their 27th birthday if they choose. * Includes the choice of a public health insurance option to compete on a level playing field with private insurers. For our seniors, this bill: * Strengthens Medicare, extending its solvency for years to come. * Improves access to your doctor. * Lowers Medicare drug prices by beginning to close the coverage gap or “donut hole” immediately, and closing it completely over the next 10 years. * Reduces inefficiencies and program costs to help Medicare remain solvent without cutting benefits. * Improves coordination and increases the quality of care for seniors with diabetes, high blood pressure, and other chronic conditions. In Rep. Sánchez’ district, the Affordable Health Care for America Act will: * Improve employer-based coverage for 342,000 residents. * Provide credits for up to 118,000 households to help pay for coverage. * Improve Medicare for 66,000 beneficiaries, including closing the prescription drug “donut hole” for 6,800 seniors. * Allow 16,300 small businesses to obtain affordable health care coverage and provide tax credits to help reduce health insurance costs for up to 15,100 small businesses. * Provide coverage for 122,000 uninsured residents. * Protect up to 1,100 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. * Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and health care providers by $50 million. For more information on the Affordable Health Care for America Act please visit: Healthcare
11.04.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez worked to accelerate critical reforms that will protect consumers from the abusive practices of the credit card industry. The House of Representatives passed a bill today to move up the effective date for credit card reforms to Dec. 1, 2009, from Feb. 22, 2010. “This marks a step forward in bringing consumers badly-needed relief," said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Congressional action became necessary because of gamesmanship by credit card companies. It may be a little late for Halloween, but the bill tries to turn the credit card companies’ tricks into a treat for consumers. ” In May, President Obama signed into law a credit card reform act to crack down on the way issuers raise fees and interest rates. The reforms were scheduled to roll out in three parts over 12 months. The bill passed today is meant to keep credit card issuers from getting in under the wire with a last gasp of unfair practices. “Credit card companies took advantage of the time between when the reform act was signed and when it was scheduled to go into effect by raising interest rates, minimum payments, and fees on consumers,” Sánchez continued. “Hard working families have enough trouble making ends meet in this economy and should not be unfairly burdened by credit card companies trying to make a profit.” By moving up the start date of much of the Credit CARD Act, Congress can limit the worst practices of credit card companies before the full law takes effect. The Credit CARD Act implemented tough regulations on the credit card industry and empowered consumers by equipping them with the tools they need to manage their own credit. The original legislation includes crucial measures that protect consumers from unfair interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing, and due-date gimmicks. The common-sense reforms in this bill will bring transparency and fairness to the credit card industry and will provide customers with the information they need to make smart financial decisions. The House passed the bill 331-92. The Senate will also have to vote to pass the bill in order for it to become law.
10.29.2009	Legislation Covers 96 percent of Americans, Reduces the Deficit Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over healthcare, joined House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at a press conference today to unveil a new health reform bill. The Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962) blends and updates the three versions of previous bills passed by the House committees of jurisdiction in July. It will slow the growth in out-of-control costs, introduce competition into the health care marketplace to keep coverage affordable and insurers honest, protect people’s choices of doctors and health plans, and assure all Americans access to quality, stable, affordable health care. “I am proud that for the first time in our history, all Americans will have access to quality, affordable health care under health insurance reform legislation unveiled by House Democrats today,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “But I am most pleased that insurance companies will no longer be able to discriminate against women on the basis of gender.” The bill includes Rep. Sánchez’ provision to prohibit health insurance companies from engaging in “gender rating,” a practice which charges women more for health insurance premiums than men. The Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act would amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit gender rating in both the group and individual markets. “Never again will a woman be denied insurance or charged one and a half times the amount of a man, simply because she is a woman,” continued Sánchez. “Never again will women be denied coverage for such “pre-existing conditions” as pregnancy, C-section, or being a domestic violence victim.” The bill also includes a provision encouraging healthcare providers to participate in “Collaborative Care Networks,” to deliver higher quality, more coordinated care to low-income and vulnerable patients. The provision, based on the Sánchez’ DSH Collaborative Care Network Pilot Program Act (H.R. 3043), will allow providers to better track patients who have chronic conditions like diabetes and asthma, and to provide necessary services like interpreters or transportation to appointments, while keeping patients out of expensive emergency rooms. The legislation will ensure that 96 percent of Americans will be covered by a quality, affordable health plan. The Congressional Budget Office estimates the cost of expanding coverage at $894 billion, consistent with the $900 billion coverage mark laid out by President Obama. And the legislation will be paid for. CBO estimates the bill reduces the deficit by at least $30 billion over 10 years. “For too long, health care in America has been a privilege - not a right,” said Sánchez. “I have worked long and hard to help develop this consensus bill that incorporates feedback from my constituents and delivers reform that will protect and strengthen coverage for those who have it and help cover those who are currently uninsured.” The key components of the Affordable health Care for America Act include: Increasing choice and competition. The bill will protect and improve consumers’ choices. * If people like their current plans, they will be able to keep them. * For individuals who aren’t currently covered by their employer, or are self-employed, the proposal will establish a new Health Insurance Exchange where consumers can comparison shop from a menu of affordable, quality health care choices including private plans, health co-ops, and a new public health insurance option. The public health insurance option will play on a level playing field with private insurers, spurring additional competition. * This Exchange will create competition based on quality and price that leads to better coverage and care. Patients and doctors-not insurance companies-will have control over decisions about their health care. Giving Americans peace of mind. The legislation will ensure that Americans have portable, secure health care coverage - so that they won’t lose care if their employer drops their plan or they lose their job. * Every American who receives coverage through the Exchange will have a plan that includes standardized, comprehensive and quality health care benefits. * Insurance companies won’t be able to increase premiums or deny care based on pre-existing conditions, race, or gender, and will be limited in the premium increases they can impose due to age. * Co-pays for preventive care are eliminated, and out-of-pocket expenses are capped to protect every American from bankruptcy. Improving quality of care for every American. The legislation will ensure that Americans of all ages, from young children to retirees, have access to greater quality of care by focusing on prevention, wellness, and strengthening programs that work. * Guarantees that every child in America will have health care coverage that includes dental, hearing, and vision benefits. * Provides better preventive and wellness care. Every health care plan offered through the exchange and by employers after a grace period will cover preventive care at no cost to the patient. * Increases the health care workforce to ensure that more doctors and nurses are available to provide quality care as more Americans get coverage. * Strengthens Medicare and Medicaid and closes the Medicare Part D donut hole’ so that seniors and low-income Americans receive better quality of care and pay lower prescription drug costs and out-of-pocket expenses. Ensuring shared responsibility. The bill will ensure that individuals, employers, and the federal government share responsibility for a quality and affordable health care system. * Employers can continue offering coverage to workers, and those who choose not offer coverage contribute a fee of eight percent of payroll. * All individuals will generally be required to get coverage, either through their employer or the exchange, or pay a penalty of 2.5 percent of income, subject to a hardship exemption. * The federal government will provide affordability credits, available on a sliding scale for low- and middle-income individuals and families, to make premiums affordable and reduce cost-sharing. Protecting consumers and reducing waste, fraud, and abuse. The legislation will put the interests of consumers first, protect them from problems in getting and keeping health care coverage, and reduce waste, fraud, and abuse. * Provides transparency in plans in the Health Exchange so that consumers have the clear, complete information, in plain English, needed to select the plan that best meets their needs. * Establishes consumer advocacy offices as part of the Exchange in order to protect consumers, answer questions, and assist with any problems related to plans. * Simplifies paperwork and other administrative burdens. Patients, doctors, nurses, insurance companies, providers, and employers will all encounter a streamlined, less confusing, more consumer-friendly system. * Increases funding of efforts to reduce waste, fraud, and abuse; creates enhanced oversight of Medicare and Medicaid programs. Reducing the deficit and ensuring the solvency of Medicare and Medicaid. The legislation will be entirely paid for¬ - it will not add a dime to the deficit. It will also put Medicare and Medicaid on the path to a more fiscally sound future, so seniors and low-income Americans can continue to receive the quality health care benefits for years to come. * Pays for the entire cost of the legislation though a combination of savings achieved by making Medicare and Medicaid more efficient ¬- without cutting seniors’ benefits and revenue generated from placing a surcharge the top 0.3 percent of all households in the U.S.(married couples with adjusted gross income of over $1,000,000) and other tax measures. * The Congressional Budget estimates the bill will reduce the deficit by at least $100 billion over ten years. * Estimates also show the bill will slow the rate of growth of the Medicare program from 6.6 percent annually to 5.3 percent annually. To view a copy of the Affordable Health Care for American Act, H.R. 3926, click here.
10.28.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA) today applauded the enactment of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which will extend protections to victims of violent crimes committed on the basis of a person's actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, and/or disability. It also strengthens existing hate crimes protections for a variety of other categories, including race, color, religion, national origin, and ethnicity. “After years of opposition, we’ve finally passed inclusive hate crimes legislation to protect Americans from hateful acts of violence no matter what color they are, who they love, or how they pray,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I applaud President Obama for signing this legislation protecting our constituents and making our community and our country a better place to live.” Despite the pervasiveness of the problem, current law limits federal jurisdiction over hate crimes to incidents against protected classes that occur only during the exercise of federally protected activities, such as voting. Further, the statutes do not permit federal involvement in a range of cases where crimes are motivated by bias against the victim’s perceived sexual orientation, gender, disability or gender identity. This loophole is particularly significant given the fact that four states have no hate crime laws on the books, and another 21 states have extremely weak hate crimes laws. “In the Matthew Shepard case, the local sheriff’s department nearly went bankrupt trying to pursue the case,” continued Sánchez. “Now, with this new legislation, federal authorities will be able to assist local ones, and even our most vulnerable neighbors will know they have access to justice, no matter where they live.” The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act was included in the National Defense Authorization Act, which President Obama signed into law today. Rep. Sánchez, a founding member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, was particularly pleased that the legislation included protection for transgender Americans.
10.27.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced a bi-partisan resolution calling for the observance of a National Labor History Month, encouraging reflection on the labor movement’s heritage and its many contributions to America’s history. “Today, most Americans work in clean, well-lit, well-ventilated, air-conditioned workplaces,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It is all too easy to forget the desperate conditions and treatment in which workers, including children and women, were forced to endure less than a hundred years ago. The labor movement played a leading role in ending inhumane and unfair practices.” The resolution, co-sponsored by Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), and 52 other Members, recognizes the significant role labor leaders played in the civil rights movement, fighting to end racial and gender discrimination in the workplace. As early as World War II, labor leaders fought to end racial discrimination against African-Americans working in the defense industry. Cesar Chávez’ United Farmworkers Union fought not only for labor rights, but for equal rights for Latinos in countless walks of life. National Labor History Month will pay tribute to those who put themselves on the line for all of America’s working men and women. “In addition to fighting against the exploitation of workers, labor leaders also played a significant role in the civil rights movement, in the creation of the Social Security system, and in the growth of pensions, sick leave, paid vacations, and disability insurance,” continued Sánchez. “This bill pays tribute to those contributions so that the legacy of this struggle is permanently honored.” Text of the resolution is as follows: CONCURRENT RESOLUTION Recognizing and honoring America’s labor movement, supporting the designation of a National Labor History Month, and for other purposes. Whereas the labor movement has greatly impacted the quality of life of all Americans; Whereas in the early 20th century, millions of Americans left their farms to begin new lives as factory workers; Whereas many of these individuals found neither secure employment nor higher wages at their new jobs; Whereas the industrial economy brought these workers exploitation, continued poverty, and the risk of injury and death; Whereas students of United States history vividly recall the images of filthy children emerging from mills and mines, stories of terrible fires and explosions, and the grim legacy of the slums that emerged in factory towns; Whereas efforts to eliminate child labor, sweatshops, and workplace disasters began to succeed only after workers organized and spoke with a united and independent voice; Whereas the American labor movement helped the first generation of industrial workers express their aspirations and insecurities, and empowered them with the necessary tools to define the terms and conditions of their employment and expand the role of labor in larger society; Whereas in facing the challenges posed by global competition and rapid technological advances, the workers of the 21st century need the same effective leadership that allowed their forebears to succeed; Whereas many Americans, members of union and non-union households alike, are unaware of these struggles; Whereas the United States has recognized other important contributions made to this country through designations such as National Women’s History Month and National Black History Month; Whereas the celebration of Labor Day on the first Monday of September, while a cherished holiday by all accounts, is inadequate for educating the public about the many contributions that unions, union members, and other working people have made to the lives of working families; Whereas many resources exist within various colleges, universities, and international union training centers to educate union members on the importance of these labor struggles; and Whereas each new generation of workers must embrace the activism that has characterized labor’s rich history, and all Americans should recognize the role that labor has played in the continuing progress of the democracy of the United States: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That Congress- (1) honors and recognizes the American labor movement; (2) supports the designation of a National Labor History Month; and (3) urges government officials, educators, the media, and all Americans to observe a National Labor History Month with ceremonies, activities, and programs that encourage reflection on the labor movement’s heritage and its many contributions to the creation and maintenance of a more just America.
10.21.2009	Collective Bargaining Agreement will Level Out the Field Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) applauded the agreement today between the National Football League (NFL) and the National Football League Players Association (NFLPA) to level the playing field for retired and disabled football players and current players. “The agreement today is a touchdown for retired and disabled football players who should not be forgotten nor deprived of benefits,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “These players helped build the legacy and popularity of the NFL and are entitled to the benefits they earned. I applaud DeMaurice Smith for his dedication to these players and their well deserved agreement today.” Sánchez, a longtime advocate for fair treatment of retired and disabled football players, sent a letter on September 15, 2009 to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell urging him to guarantee that there would be no reduction in pension or disability payments to retired players in the event of an uncapped 2010 football season. Sánchez has literally been driving this issue down the field by following up her prior work on the issue of equity for disabled players with the request that Commissioner Goodell put his promise that there will be no reduction in pension or disability payments in writing. Many league retirees, particularly those who helped build the league in its early years, rely on their pensions to pay basic expenses and would be in serious financial jeopardy if their pensions were suddenly reduced. The NFL today agreed to sign a proposed amendment to the Collective Bargaining Agreement with the NFLPA to effectuate this commitment. Rep. Sánchez has also noted that team values appear to have increased an impressive 550% since 1995 and that pre-1993 players received a smaller share of revenues than they do now. She has asked the NFL and the NFL Players Association (NFLPA) to work together to address this inequity. Specifically, Sánchez would like to see a substantial “legacy” payment for players who retired before 1993 that would be funded separately from the pool of funds for current players. “While owners enjoy not only substantial anti-trust benefits and the financial growth and success of a multi-billion dollar organization, those who literally put their backs on the line to build the League’s capital have not received a fair share of the spoils as they aged and developed long-term health problems.” Two years ago, as Chair of a Judiciary Subcommittee, Rep. Sánchez held a hearing that highlighted problems the retirees had in fighting through red tape while trying to overcome multiple surgeries, dementia, and homelessness. “Just like any other job - football players are entitled to a fair and just retirement and disability plan,” continued Sánchez. Text of Rep. Sánchez’ letter to Commissioner Goodell is below. September 15, 2009 Commissioner Roger Goodell National Football League 280 Park Ave., 15th Floor New York, NY 10017 Re: Equity for Disabled and Retired Players Dear Commissioner Goodell: As you know, I am an advocate for fair, adequate, and appropriate treatment of retired and disabled football players. I am writing to commend you on the National Football League’s (“NFL” or “the League”) guarantee that there will be no reduction in pension or disability payments to retired players in the event of an uncapped 2010 football season. It is my understanding that the NFL Players Association (“NFLPA”) has proposed an amendment to the Collective Bargaining Agreement to effectuate your commitment. Retired and disabled players’ issues remain a priority for me and many of my colleagues. I would greatly appreciate it if you would keep me apprised of whether the League intends to execute the proposed amendment. On a related note, the 2009 Forbes’ National Football League valuation data was recently brought to my attention. In this current economic climate, I am happy to see a profitable business with increased revenue and operating income. Forbes calculated a 7% increase in revenue for the league and a healthy 31% increase in operating income for the individual teams. It would be reassuring to know that our retired and disabled players will share in the league’s economic success. Most tellingly, it appears that the average value of a team has increased 550% since 1995the earliest date of publicly released data. If this figure is incorrect, would you please provide the teams annual or average profit increase since 1993? My understanding is that prior to 1993, players received a smaller share of revenues than they do now and retired players received only very limited benefits. Therefore, the players who are in the most need of help are the ones who have not benefited financially from the tremendous growth of the sport and the financial success of the owners since 1993. I wonder if the parties involved might work together to see this inequity addressed. Specifically, I would like to know if the NFL and the NFLPA would be willing to agree to a substantial “legacy” payment for players who retired before 1993 that would be funded separately from the pool of funds for current players (as I understand the vast majority of benefits for retired players to be funded)? Again, I appreciate your personal efforts and the efforts of the League to guarantee benefits to our retired and disabled football players. I look forward to hearing your response. Thank you for your stewardship on this issue. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez
10.14.2009	Sánchez Works to Make Similar Federal Law Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), applauded California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger for signing state legislation into law to end gender discrimination in health insurance premiums. The new law will prevent health insurers from charging men and women different rates for the same health insurance policies in the individual market. “Governor Schwarzenegger set the stage for the rest of the country by signing the gender rating bill into law,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I’ve introduced federal legislation that would apply this same idea to every state and rid the nation’s health insurance laws of open sex discrimination, help millions of Americans obtain affordable health care coverage, and assist overburdened public health systems.” Earlier this year, Rep. Sánchez introduced the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act in Congress, which would amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit gender rating in both the group and individual markets. Sánchez also listed her Top 5 Reasons Health Insurance Isn’t Fair to Women a compelling list of realities for why we need the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act. “Women have the most to benefit from health insurance reform - and this is just one reason,” continued Sánchez. “I am pleased that my colleagues in both the House and Senate agree-all versions of the health reform bill include my provision to end “gender rating” so that women don’t have to pay higher premiums simply on the basis of their sex.”
09.30.2009	Washington D.C. - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) testified today before a Judiciary Subcommittee hearing on her bill, H.R. 1966, the “Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act,” which would create a new federal law to give prosecutors the ability to punish those who use electronic means to engage in severe cyberbullying -- defined as repeated, hostile, and severe communication made with an intent to harm. “Today’s kids are so wired into their electronic social networks that they type more messages than they speak each day,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Their virtual world is more real to them than the so-called real world.” The legislation is named after Megan Meier, a 13-year old girl who hung herself after being cyberbullied relentlessly by who she thought was a boy named Josh. Megan’s family would later learn that “Josh” was Lori Drew, 49, who had posed as a teenage boy to harass and torment Megan. Lori Drew was never brought to justice due to the absence of a law defining this type of bullying as a crime. “I believe that we can protect our right to free speech and victims of cyberbullying at the same time,” continued Sánchez. “I want the law to be able to distinguish between an annoying chain email, a righteously angry political blog post, or a miffed text to an ex-boyfriend - all of which are and should remain legal; and serious, repeated, and hostile communications made with the intent to harm. When the latter rises to a criminal level, as it did in the case of Lori Drew, prosecutors should have a tool at their disposal to allow them to punish the perpetrator.” Rep. Linda Sánchez also mentioned Hail Ketchum-Wiggins’ case, a 17-year old girl who was cyberbullied at her high school near Sánchez’ Congressional District in Southern California. Three varsity athletes posted a video on Facebook in which they described how and where they would rape Hail before disclosing the manner in which they would kill her. You can see the students’ tormenting video here: “While Missouri and many other states have enacted cyberbullying statutes, the children of other states are waiting for Congress to act,” said Rep. Sánchez. Today’s hearing by Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security is the first step in the legislative process, where committee members hear witnesses representing various viewpoints on the measure. The Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act, which currently has 17 bipartisan co-sponsors, will now await to be considered in a “mark-up” session where committee members will vote on amendments to the bill. To view Rep. Sánchez’ testimony, visit her YouTube page
09.24.2009	Notes that Hispanics are Disproportionately Lack Insurance Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) gave a passionate argument today on the floor of the House of Representatives to urge her colleagues to pass quality, affordable health care for all Americans. Rep. Sánchez noted that health costs disproportionately affect Hispanics - who have an unbelievable uninsured rate of nearly 31%. View Rep. Linda Sánchez speech on her YouTube site at: https://www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez “I understand just what is at stake with health reform because I see it, and experience it in my community every single day,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “My constituents have told me that health care costs are beyond their reach. Some can’t afford insurance at all, and others have been denied or dropped the minute they get sick.” “Hispanics are more likely to be uninsured, and Hispanic small business owners, like all small business owners, are struggling with higher health care costs than large companies -- costs that are rising all the time,” continued Sánchez. “But the problems in our health care system aren’t just a Hispanic problem, they're an American problem.” Hispanic Heritage Month is celebrated this year, from September 15 through October 15, a time when Americans honor the Hispanic community - the fastest growing demographic group in this country. “Hispanic values - faith, family, love of country - are American values,” said Rep. Sánchez. “No one in America should go broke because they got sick. That’s a basic principle that we seek to uphold.” Earlier this year, Rep. Sánchez unveiled “Linda’s Online Health Care Forum,” and invited her constituents to share their questions, suggestions, and stories with her through her website about health care reform. Sánchez has already received hundreds of messages from her constituents and has been thanked for allowing them to share their views.
09.21.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez introduced a resolution today to recognize the Water Replenishment District (WRD) of Southern California on its 50th anniversary and the crucial role it plays in the daily lives of Southern California residents. The bipartisan resolution notes that for five decades, the Water Replenishment District of Southern California has operated to fulfill its mission of efficiently managing southern Los Angeles County’s vital water resources. As the population of the region continues to grow, it has become vitally important to maximize the use of all water sources available to the Water Replenishment District. “For fifty years, the Water Replenishment District has ensured that Southern Californians have access to high quality water,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Every time we turn on the faucet, or pour a glass of water for our kids, we have the WRD to thank.” Because of the effective work of the Water Replenishment District, there has been a reduction of reliance on the expensive and uncertain supply of imported water and the increase in the use of locally-developed supply. “As the demand for clean water supply increases, the Water Replenishment District of Southern California continues to work toward an ambitious, yet attainable, goal of eliminating the dependence of imported water by 2015,” continued Sánchez. “The good work of WRD serves as a model to other communities of the Southwest that have similarly scarce water resources.” Voters established the Water Replenishment District in 1959 to manage groundwater for nearly four million residents in 43 cities throughout southern Los Angeles County. WRD is involved in groundwater monitoring, safe drinking water programs, combating seawater intrusion, and groundwater replenishment operations - equating to nearly 40% of the total demand for water.
09.15.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) testified during a hearing held by the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL Subcommittee) on her legislation that will protect the elderly and their families from being forced to accept mandatory arbitration clauses when they enter into contracts for nursing homes care. To view Rep. Sánchez testimony, visit her YouTube site at: https://www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez At the hearing “Mandatory Binding Arbitration: Is it Fair and Voluntary?” Rep. Sánchez stated, “Last Congress, when I chaired this Subcommittee, I held four hearings on arbitration matters. I was both shocked and heartbroken when I heard testimony of families who were left powerless and bankrupt because of contracts that had an arbitration clause in the fine print.” Sánchez’ legislation, the Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act (H.R. 1237), will make pre-dispute, mandatory, binding arbitration clauses in contracts between long-term care facilities and their residents unenforceable. This legislation will not prohibit arbitration, but will simply ensure that nursing home residents have the choice whether to arbitrate a dispute after it has arisen. “This bill is about fairness,” continued Sánchez. “Fairness demands that parties to a contract should have a legitimate choice, not a forced one, about whether or not to arbitrate their disputes. We have to protect families and seniors, and that includes giving them the tools they need to protect their full legal rights.” The long-term care industry is one stark example where businesses draft “take-it-or-leave-it” admission agreements for prospective residents that include pre-dispute mandatory arbitration clauses. For families who are unable to provide adequate care in the home setting, the need for an immediate placement for their loved one makes the “take-it-or-leave-it” choice, no choice at all. Rep. Linda Sánchez made it very clear that she strongly supports the principles of arbitration and the arbitration process. Arbitration can clear court dockets, provide swift resolution, and reduce legal fees. However, because it can also limit evidence and damages, and deny the possibility of a jury trial, it must be willingly entered into by both parties, not just the party with greater economic power. Sánchez continued by saying, “The emotional toll and the sense of vulnerability when moving a loved one into the care of strangers at a nursing home is something I am all too familiar with. My father, who has been struggling with Alzheimer’s for a number of years, took a turn for the worse in recent years, to the point where we could no longer provide safe and adequate care at home. “One of the last things I wanted to worry about when searching for that perfect placement was whether he was forgoing his legal rights. Instead, I wanted to focus solely on the quality and range of services the facility would provide him. “As it turned out, my family chose a facility that met our requirements but also had a mandatory, pre-dispute arbitration clause in its contract. This bill is for the families across the nation who face similar decisions at a time when they are least prepared to make them.”
09.11.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez commended the work of four local students who spent time interning in her Congressional Office in Cerritos this summer. The following interns worked with Sánchez’ staff to provide important constituent services: * Ashley Ramos, Whittier College student * Nancy Negrete, Firebaugh High School student * Tiffany Ho, Cerritos High School student * Nicole Osako, incoming freshman at the University of California, Irvine and recent Cerritos High School graduate “Our summer interns - Ashley, Nancy, Tiffany, and Nicole - truly made a difference for their community by helping out the residents of the 39th Congressional District,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It is inspiring to see a group of young women choosing public service. I look forward to seeing these rising stars go on to accomplish great things.” Rep. Sánchez’ internship program provides local students with the chance to learn more about government and develop leadership skills that will serve them well wherever they go in life. Interns help plan district events, contribute to casework and grant development and conduct general office management. Ashley Ramos, a student at Whittier College said, “This was a rewarding experience to learn about the Congresswoman’s work in such a great learning environment. It is difficult to please everyone but Congresswoman Sánchez makes a tremendous effort to make her decisions beneficial for her constituents.” Nancy Negrete, a senior at Firebaugh High School in Lynwood said, “This internship gave me the ability to learn and investigate core issues, and to learn how legislation has an impact on our everyday lives. Working for Congresswoman Sánchez was an incredible experience that gave me a strong sense of personal involvement in legislation and politics.” Tiffany Ho, a student at Cerritos High School said, “At the age of 15, I never would have expected to be exposed to politics. Given that healthcare is such a prominent issue today, interning with Congresswoman Sánchez has been a valuable opportunity that allowed me to meet with key leaders in today’s society.” Recent Cerritos High School graduate Nicole Osako said, “The most rewarding part of this internship was being able to help constituents with their problems and concerns. It’s an amazing feeling to know that you had a hand in solving the problems of people in your community. I feel I have gained an even stronger passion for public service.” This fall, Nicole will be an incoming freshman at the University of California, Irvine. Fall, spring and summer internships are available in Rep. Linda Sánchez’ offices in Cerritos, CA and Washington, DC. To learn more about internships, including deadlines and application information, visit the internship section of Rep. Sánchez’ website here.
09.11.2009	Bush Policies Left Americans Worse Off and the Economy in the Worst Recession since the Great Depression Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez responded to the release of this year’s Census Report on Income, Poverty and Health Insurance. The report shows the number of Americans without health insurance increased to 46.3 million in 2008, and climbed by 7.9 million during the eight years of the Bush Administration. It also shows that real median household income dropped nearly 4 percent last year to $50,303, with a drop of $2,197 over the last eight years. The number of Americans in poverty grew to 39.8 million, with the nation's poverty rate climbing to the highest rate since 1997 - to 13.2 percent up from 12.5 percent in 2007 - and 8.2 million more Americans falling into poverty during the Bush years. “Forty-six million Americans -- including 6.3 million Californians -- without health care, isn’t a minor nuisance, it’s a tragedy,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “But in economic terms, the uninsured also cost us all: $1,100 extra for the average American family, higher costs for our businesses, and huge pressure on state and federal budgets. Only by acting now on health reform can we bring stability and security to Americans who have insurance today, and affordable coverage to the growing number of American families who don’t.” “After eight years of one of the worst economic records in history, 8.2 million more Americans fell into poverty, and 7.9 million more Americans lost health insurance,” continued Sánchez. “As a Co-Chair and Co-Founder of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, I am proud to work with President Obama to undo the legacy of the Bush Administration and its devastating impact on hardworking families who are simply trying to provide quality housing, education, and health care for their families.” Experts agree that the Bush Administration has one of the worst economic records in history, with the: * Worst private sector jobs record of any Administration in 75 years, with job losses exceeding 700,000 in January 2009 alone * Worst record for economic performance since President Harry Truman, when quarterly GDP data was first released; also leaving office in January 2009 with an economic growth rate of -6.4 percent, the worst decline in a single quarter in nearly 30 years * National debt nearly doubling from $5.7 trillion to $10.6 trillion
09.11.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez joins with all Americans in commemorating the tragic events of September 11, 2001, with a National Day of Service and Remembrance. Created by the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, the National Day of Service channels the powerful sense of unity, patriotism, and shared purpose Americans felt in the wake of the 9/11 attacks into meaningful action in our communities. “Just days ago, we paid tribute to Senator Kennedy, the ultimate patriot,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This year, as we reflect on the many heroes we have lost, we clearly see that honoring them through our service and showing gratitude is more important than ever.” The National Day of Service and Remembrance is the culmination of several months of service projects, a crucial part of the Kennedy Act. Projects held in all fifty states and the District of Columbia included food drives, neighborhood cleanups and volunteer construction work. Hundreds of additional projects involving tens of thousands of volunteers, nonprofits, businesses, faith groups and governments will take place across the country as Americans reflect on the 9/11 anniversary. Rep. Sánchez noted that within days of taking over the majority, House Democrats took dramatic steps to keep Americans safe at home and abroad. Democrats passed and implemented the full package of recommendations of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, succeeded in passing a new GI Bill to better provide for veterans’ education, increased service members’ pay in the 2009 Defense Authorization, and improved healthcare for female veterans through the Women Veterans Healthcare Improvement Act. Rep. Sánchez also supported streamlining VA funding to ensure our veterans receive crucial health services without interruption. “There is one thing the terrorists of 9/11 could not destroy - the pride of Americans who rallied together stronger and more united than before,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I encourage my fellow Southern Californians to join me this September 11 and in the days ahead in giving back to our community and honoring the memories of those who have already given us so much.” RESOURCES: In order to find a volunteer opportunity on September 11 in your community, there are two useful websites: https://www.serve.gov/ https://www.911day.org/ - which is the website of the MyGoodDeed nonprofit organization For information on the Serve America Act, visit: Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act.
09.09.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez voted with her colleagues today to pass a House Resolution honoring first responders and paying tribute to the victims of the Southern California wildfires. Los Angeles County Fire Captain Tedmund ‘Ted’ Hall and Firefighter Specialist Arnaldo ‘Arnie’ Quinones lost their lives on August 30 in the Los Angeles National Forest. “My thoughts and prayers are with the Hall and Quinones families, who lost two heroes that made the ultimate sacrifice trying to save the lives of others,” said Rep. Sánchez. “And my thoughts are with the firefighters and first responders still standing in harm’s way.” H. Res. 724 condemns the acts of arson that ignited the Los Angeles County Station Fire and extends appreciation to the volunteers, law enforcement, and medical personnel for helping evacuees, sheltering the displaced, and treating injuries in recent weeks. “Our California firefighters battle incredible obstacles - searing heat, unstable terrain, heavy equipment - all in an effort to save the lives and homes of others,” continued Sánchez. “We pay tribute today and extend our deepest gratitude to every hero in Southern California who has volunteered, helped evacuees, sheltered the displaced, or helped treat injuries in the last few weeks.”
09.09.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez announced a grant award to the City of Lakewood for $695,200 from the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) Program. The funds will help Lakewood improve energy efficiency, reduce energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and create green jobs locally. “This is a tangible example for why I worked so hard to pass the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I’m happy to see Lakewood benefit from this award to create local jobs and help our environment.” The City of Lakewood will use the federal funding for improvements to a 25-year old Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) system at the Centre at Sycamore Plaza, a meeting and banquet facility. The efficiency of new replacements to the system will result in significant energy savings with over $32,000 in annual utility bill savings. “We appreciate Congresswoman Sánchez’ efforts to assist the city in reducing our impact on the environment,” said Lakewood Mayor Todd Rogers. “Every project that makes us more energy efficient and our “carbon footprint” smaller is a victory for a greener Lakewood. With the Congresswoman’s help, energy conservation is being built into our most-used city facility, with long-term payoffs in the form of lower operating costs and measurable environmental benefits.” The EECBG Program was funded for the first time by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Funding for the EECBG Program under the Recovery Act totals $3.2 billion, of which approximately $2.7 billion will be awarded through formula grants to more than 2,300 cities, counties, states, and Indian tribes nationwide. In addition, more than $400 million will be delivered through competitive grants, which will be awarded through a separate, future Funding Opportunity Announcement.
09.03.2009	Artesia, CA - Over 600 local seniors attended Rep. Linda Sánchez’ 7th Annual Senior Fair yesterday at the Artesia Community Center to get free health screenings, receive information and legal advice, and consult with federal agencies. Rep. Sánchez updated seniors on legislation in Congress including social security, Medicare, and health insurance reform. “This is one of my most important events of the year because it brings help directly to our seniors,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I’ll never forget Mr. Carlos Garcia who came to this event last year to share his story with me. He had taken a free prostate screening at my senior event four years ago and was shocked to find out that he had prostate cancer. Because of the screening, he found out early enough so that he was able to get it treated easily and recover successfully.” Over 40 vendors were on site, including some providing free screenings for bone density, blood pressure, sun damage, and glucose levels. Other vendors provided information to seniors regarding financial planning, reverse mortgages, elder rights, housing rights, and caregiver assistance. Representatives from the IRS and Social Security Administration answered individual questions and the Center for Healthcare Rights gave information regarding Medicare and prescription drugs. “This year, opponents of health insurance reform are trying to spread myths and scare seniors,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I want to make sure seniors know the facts. Health reform will shrink the “doughnut hole” in prescription drug coverage; makes all preventive coverage free of co-payments or co-insurance; and increases physician payments to ensure that doctors continue to accept Medicare patients.” Rep. Sánchez also spoke about a bill she introduced in Congress that would allow seniors who are eligible to receive home health care services from Medicare to choose adult day care services instead. The “Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act,” (H.R. 3043) would provide a new option without adding to the cost of Medicare. For more information on the Senior Fair, please call Rep. Sánchez’ office at 562-860-5050. Click here for a brochure on what health insurance reform means for seniors:
09.03.2009	Rep. Sánchez helps bring big improvements to local Post Office Paramount, CA - Today Rep. Linda Sánchez presented Postmaster Debra Pendleton and all the employees of the Paramount Post Office with an American flag which she had flown over the United States Capitol to commemorate the newly improved Paramount Post Office. Rep. Sánchez is responsible for prompting the United States Postal Service (USPS) to make much-needed renovations to the Paramount Post Office including a new parking lot, new passport services, and improved customer service. “I am happy to see the stars and stripes fly over a proud local project,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The new improvements make it a safer, faster, and more pleasant experience doing business at the Paramount Post Office.” After receiving complaints from constituents about long lines, traffic problems and a report from an elderly woman who had fallen outside because of bumpy pavement, Rep. Sánchez worked to bring together the USPS and the City of Paramount and collaborate on an improvement project for the Paramount Post Office. The new parking lot evolved from the cooperation of the USPS, Southern California Edison, and a local small business, ABC Nursery, which donated the land it was using for parking. Rep. Sánchez also announced additional improvements to the Post Office: * A new Passport Office, which will reduce waiting times in the main post office. It will also dispense money orders. * The replacement of concrete in the parking lot and walkways for improved and safer access to the facility, especially for people with disabilities. * Aesthetic improvements to the building and grounds, including new landscaping, fresh paint, and an artistic postal mural.
08.31.2009	Lakewood, CA - Over 300 local homeowners and future homeowners attended Rep. Linda Sánchez’ Housing Summit in Lakewood on Saturday to get free advice from housing experts and learn about tax incentives for purchasing a first home or making home improvements. “A home is one of the most important financial investments most of us will ever make,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the Ways and Means Committee. “I worked hard to pass the $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers and want to help more people learn about it along with energy efficiency tax credits. These are savings working families can really use right now.” The Housing Summit provided help for those thinking of purchasing a home, interested in learning about tax credits for energy efficient upgrades for a home (like the $1,500 available for upgrading windows), or interested in how to refinance or modify a mortgage. Attendees heard from experts with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Los Angeles County Community Development Commission, and Global Green USA. Congress has taken actions to help those struggling to make their monthly mortgage payments. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, which was passed by Congress and signed by President Obama earlier this year, provides incentives for lenders, servicers, and homeowners to work together to modify loans to avoid foreclosures. “Over 230,000 mortgages have been modified to make monthly payments affordable since the program started,” said Rep. Sánchez. “If this pace continues, we can expect to help 3 to 4 million homeowners avoid foreclosure over the next three years, which will greatly help stabilize the housing market.” As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, which drafts tax legislation, Rep. Sánchez teamed with colleagues to pass the Housing and Economic Recovery Act, which authorized an $8,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers. The law also created the Neighborhood Stabilization Program which allocates $4 billion in assistance to states and local governments to purchase and redevelop foreclosed homes, which will help stabilize communities and property values. For more information on this event or other housing information please visit Rep. Sánchez website at www.lindasanchez.house.gov or call 562-860-5050.
08.31.2009	Rep. Linda Sánchez Dedicates Environmental Project to Reduce Pollution Lakewood, CA - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez dedicated an innovative environmental project in Lakewood with $950,000 she secured in federal funding. “I first learned about tree wells a few years ago but there were none in operation in California,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Lakewood today becomes the first small city in Los Angeles County to use this natural technology. I am proud that I was able to bring federal funding for local projects like this that make a positive impact on our environment.” Sánchez dedicated two state-of-the-art bio-retention tree wells that will clean storm water runoff from Paramount Boulevard and surrounding streets. Bio-retention tree wells take in storm water from street gutters and capture the harmful pollution that would normally flow untreated into drainage systems that empty onto local beaches and in the ocean. The tree wells capture and remove trash, oil and grease, bacteria, metals, and nutrients such as fertilizer. “This one little tree - and others like it - can play a powerful role in cleaning the pollution that comes from our roadways, heads down our storm drains, and then goes straight to our ocean and beaches,” said Rep. Sánchez. “These tree wells will capture pollutants that harm our families and help keep our water safe.” Bio-retention tree wells are considered a cutting-edge “low impact development” technology. The Lakewood project is the first in Los Angeles County to be installed by a small city. As part of Rep. Sánchez’ ongoing efforts to “green” local communities, a portion of the $950,000 in federal investments she secured for this project was allotted to repave two miles of Paramount Blvd. and to install six new bus stops with solar-lighting.
08.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy. “Senator Kennedy's death moves me to great sadness but also a sense that we should celebrate a person who embodied the term “public servant”. Senator Kennedy fought the good fight longer than almost any senator in our history. His accomplishments, improving the lives of working people, women, immigrants, minorities, gay and lesbians, people with disabilities and fighting for just causes like affordable health care are too many to list. I was honored to work with Senator Kennedy on legislation to provide a living wage for working people. And, I am committed to continuing the fight he began for affordable, quality health care for all Americans with my colleague and friend, Congressman Patrick Kennedy. It is a fight that his father began over 40 years ago. My thoughts and prayers are with Vicki, Tara, Teddy Jr., Patrick and the all of the Senator’s family, extended family and friends. Senator Kennedy knew of our struggles and our hopes for a better future. A champion for all Americans will be missed.”
07.31.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted to increase funding for the “cash for clunkers” program. The initial launch has been so successful in encouraging Americans to trade in their old gas guzzlers for new fuel-efficient cars, that funding ran out the first week it was made available to American consumers and Congress is acting quickly to extend it. The program allows consumers to trade in their old, gas-guzzling cars for vouchers worth up to $4,500 to help pay for new, more fuel-efficient vehicles. Almost 200,000 cars have already been sold through the program, and it is expected to spur the sale of up to 800,000 more fuel-efficient cars and trucks, while stimulating the ailing auto industry and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. “This is a smart program that will help accelerate our clean energy economy, cut down on pollution, and save money at the pump,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It goes a long way towards getting Americans back to work and behind the wheel of cleaner, more environmentally-friendly cars.” The legislation provides rebates for cars and trucks in the following four categories: * Passenger Cars: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. * Light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. * Large light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a “work truck.” New vehicles with improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. * Work Trucks: The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher. The initial bipartisan legislation was supported by a broad coalition that includes the AFL-CIO, UAW, car dealers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. “This is a win for the consumer, the economy, the environment, and the auto industry,” said Rep. Sánchez.
07.21.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today delivered the keynote address at the annual Minority Media and Telecommunications Council (MMTC) Policy Conference Breakfast in Washington, D.C. Rep. Sánchez’ speech focused on the importance of minority representation in the media and questioned “how many times a Latina actress on TV is cast as a maid instead of a lawyer, or as a nanny instead of a businesswoman.” Sánchez’ remarks indicated that policy should “address the persistent, stereotypical portrayal of minorities in the media” and increase ownership by minorities in the media and telecommunications sectors for an equal playing field. Rep. Sánchez’ prepared remarks are as follows: Good morning. David, thank you for the kind introduction. I am pleased to be here with all of you today. I'd like to share a quick story with you, about an incident that happened to me about a year and a half ago. One day in the Capitol while going to vote, I was rushing to catch the elevator, and just as the doors were closing, I threw my arm in to stop it, and jumped in. There were two older, southern men standing inside, and one of them looked down at me and asked, "So, whose office do you work in?" Dressed professionally and wearing my pin that identified me as a member of Congress, I was dismayed that these two assumed I was someone else's staff. I politely smiled and responded, “Oh, I have my own office in this building.” Then the elevator doors opened, and they scurried out. Because I am young, because I am a woman, and because I am Latina, I know about misconceptions of minorities. And I am working to change them every day. I raise this issue because minority media is also in a predicament. According to a study by the nonpartisan group Free Press, people of color own just 3% of all local TV stations and 8% of all local radio stations, even though they make up 35% of the U.S. population. It is not surprising then, that we aren’t fairly represented in front of the camera or microphone either. While we have made great strides in improving the diverse faces and voices in popular media, I remain concerned about persistent stereotypes in the portrayal of minorities in television, film, and other media. Take the most recent confirmation hearings of Supreme Court nominee Sonia Sotomayor. Love or hate her politics, the last thing you can characterize her as is being unqualified. In fact, if confirmed, she would bring the most judicial experience of any Supreme Court nominee in 100 years. Yet some members of the Senate have chosen to focus on her ethnicity rather than her experience - even going so far as to “joke” with her that she has “some splainin’ to do!” Well, they may be surprised to know that not all of us with Hispanic heritage talk like the character Ricky Ricardo from I Love Lucy. The point is this: there is a serious lack of accurate representation of minorities in the media. How many times is a Latina actress on TV cast as a maid instead of a lawyer? A nanny instead of a businesswoman? Given that the Writers Guild of America found that minorities comprise just 10% of television writers, this is no real surprise. This is why media ownership is so important as well. When minority media ownership begins to catch up to the minority population in the United States, then we stand a better chance of the full breadth of our community being portrayed. We can do better, and we must do better. I would like to see a strengthened minority-ownership initiative at the FCC - both in the media and telecommunications sectors. I know that MMTC has been a champion on this throughout its history, and I applaud you for taking on this issue. As a member of the Ways and Means and the Judiciary Committees, I get to work directly on this issue and many more that have the ability to positively affect minority communities and businesses. In Congress, I have been working hard to ensure a business friendly and level playing field to encourage minority leadership in media and telecommunications. And I would also like to see a more concerted effort to bring back the minority ownership tax incentives that worked so well in the past. For two years, I served as Chairwoman of the so-called sleepy Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law - which is funny because in law school, I did the worst in my Administrative Law class! But when I took over this committee, I woke it up and held numerous hearings on the Cell Tax Fairness Act of 2008, The State Video Tax Fairness Act, and the Internet Tax Freedom Act. Maybe I should try to get my old professor to give me retroactive credit! I also advocated vigorously for the passage of the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act. This legislation minimizes the effect on state and local government revenue, treats businesses fairly, and keeps Internet access affordable to consumers. Ensuring equal employment opportunities, preparing lawyers and law students in communications law, and advocating for greater diversity and minority participation in media and telecommunications are priorities that I share with MMTC. Today more than ever, the digital divide prevents low-income people from having the same access to internet and broadband service as others - also something that I am watching along with MMTC. One thing that I am proud of is the much-needed broadband investment in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, especially the 4.7 billion dollars dedicated to Broadband Technology Opportunities Program. Media consolidation is another issue that faces minority business owners. While we need to turn back the tide of media consolidation, we cannot lose sight of the fact that minority businesses who want to compete in the field of telecommunication services face tremendous barriers to entry. Congress must look at ways to enhance the ability of small market players and new entrants to compete against the dominant players in the spectrum auction and the FCC should look at other ways to level the playing field for small minority owners. Reforms we’ve already made to the Small Business Administration will help advance minority media owners as well as other minority businesses. Media matters. It shapes opinions. New media matters. It shapes young people’s opinions tremendously. That is why I don’t just rely on the mainstream media to get my message out there. I have taken it upon myself to use new media outlets to connect with my constituents. I do public service announcements, frequently update my Facebook page, and post video messages on YouTube so I don’t have to rely solely on the Rupert Murdochs of the world to get my message out there to as many people as possible. Minority ownership has stagnated and the vast majority of minority-owned stations are AM stations or low-power FM stations. Disproportionately, these stations are licensed to towns some distance from central cities. The FCC is considering several proposals that would make it easier for outlying stations to relocate closer to their audiences. And I will to continue to work towards rectifying these discrepancies to create a better and more equal playing field for minority media owners. I appreciate the opportunity to speak to you, and I look forward to working with MMTC and all of you on these critical issues. Thank you again for inviting me and enjoy your breakfast.
07.14.2009	Rep. Sánchez’ priority on gender-rating included Washington, DC - The three Committees with jurisdiction over health policy in the U.S. House of Representatives introduced comprehensive health care reform legislation today that will reduce out-of-control costs, encourage competition among insurance plans to improve choices for patients, and expand access to quality, affordable health care for all Americans. One of Rep. Linda Sánchez’ priorities - to prohibit health insurance companies from engaging in “gender-rating” - is included in the bill. “As a member of the Ways and Means Committee, I have been in numerous meetings and worked countless hours to make sure that this legislation will lower costs, offer more choices, and end the need to make job and life choices just to keep health care,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the Ways and Means Committee. “The growing cost of health care is one of the biggest drags on our economy. Within a decade, we will be spending one out of every five dollars we earn on health care. We simply can’t afford not to act on this historic reform.” The reform announced today is a strong starting point to protect what works in our health care system and fix what doesn’t in an effort to put us back on the path to prosperity and fiscal responsibility. “I worked hard to make sure that Gender Equity in Health Premiums is included in health care reform,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It is absurd that insurance companies can charge women more simply for being women.” Click here to read more about Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act and Sánchez’ “Top 5 Reasons Health Insurance Isn’t Fair to Women.” The health care reform plan offers: LOWER COSTS FOR CONSUMERS " No more co-pays or deductibles for preventive care " An annual cap on out-of-pocket expenseskeeping Americans from financial ruin " An end to rate increases for pre-existing conditions, gender, or occupation " Group rates of a national pool if you buy your own policy " Guaranteed affordable oral health, hearing, and vision care for kids GREATER CHOICE " If you like your doctor and current plan, you can keep them " More choice, with a public health insurance option competing with private insurers STABILITY AND PEACE OF MIND * End to denials for pre-existing conditions like heart disease, cancer, or diabetes * Get needed care without waiting to be able to afford it, no lifetime limits * Job and life choices will no longer be based on health care coverage HIGHER QUALITY * Doctors, not insurance giants, will be in charge * More family doctors and nurses will enter the workforce, helping to guarantee access * Benefits will include mental health “This plan tells every American - if you have coverage and a doctor you like, keep it,” said Rep. Sánchez. “If you don’t, this plan will help you find and afford quality care.” Last week, Rep. Sánchez unveiled “Linda’s Online Health Care Forum,” and invited her constituents to share their questions, suggestions, and stories with her through her website about health care reform. Sánchez has already received hundreds of messages from her constituents and has been thanked for allowing them to share their views. ###
07.13.2009	Washington, DC - Reps. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Phil Hare (D-IL) spearheaded a congressional effort to urge Guatemalan President Alvaro Colóm to end the continued exploitation of and violence against workers and unions. 38 other Members of Congress joined them to send a letter to President Colóm urging him to address this dire situation and pledging their support to work with him to effectively enforce the nation’s labor laws. “Guatemala has serious anti-labor violence ranging from raids and attacks on union offices to threats, harassment, and even assassinations,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade. “The ongoing problems of worker exploitation and labor violence not only harm Guatemalan working families, but also violate Guatemala’s promises under CAFTA to enforce its own labor laws. It is unfortunate that this Bush-negotiated trade agreement did not include stronger protections for workers, which is why I am committed to changing our trade model to include better enforcement and stronger labor provisions.” The Central American Free Trade Agreement passed Congress in 2005 and went into force with Guatemala in 2006. Since then, Guatemala has become the second most dangerous country for trade unionists in Latin America - with nine assassinations and numerous death threats in 2008 alone. Last year, the AFL-CIO and six Guatemalan unions filed a complaint with the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Trade and Labor Affairs (OTLA), calling on the Bush administration to demand the Guatemalan government take all measures necessary to end the violence and oppression of trade unionists. This past January, just days before President Bush left office, the OTLA issued a report that confirmed the charges in the complaint and found additional serious rights violations. The report recommended several actions Guatemala could take to improve its record and promised to reassess the situation in consultation with the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of State, in six months. Those six months are nearly up, but too little has changed for Guatemalan workers. “As co-chair of the International Workers Rights Caucus, I firmly believe we have a moral obligation to ensure workers rights are upheld around the world,” said Rep. Phil Hare. “The submission under chapter 16 of the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) put forth by the Guatemalan unions amounts to a full-fledged suppression of workers’ fundamental rights to organize, work in safe conditions, and receive the wages and benefits they have been promised. Not only are these violations of Guatemala’s commitment under CAFTA, an agreement with an extremely weak labor chapter to begin with, but violations of international labor standards. I hope President Colóm heeds the advice of our letter and does everything he can to tackle the continued exploitation of workers in his country.” Click here to read the public Report of Review from the Office of Trade and Labor Affairs: Full text of the letter is as follows: Dear President Colóm: There is little question that your government faces several serious challenges, many of which have plagued Guatemala for decades. In addition to high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality, which is worsening in the context of the current economic crisis, escalating criminal violence, fueled in part by drug trafficking, now threatens the security of the people and the nation. We applaud the considerable efforts you have undertaken in the relatively short time that you have been in office, and we extend to you our support to help address these seemingly insurmountable challenges. Today, however, we call upon you to meaningfully address continued violations of worker rights in Guatemala. Upon ratifying the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), the government of Guatemala assumed a binding obligation to enforce its existing labor laws and regulations. However, since July 1, 2006, when the trade agreement entered into force, labor violations and impunity for those violations remains the norm. In an effort to get Guatemala to live up to its commitments under CAFTA, six Guatemalan unions, with the support of the AFL-CIO, filed a submission under Chapter 16 of CAFTA with the US Department of Labor’s Office of Trade and Labor Affairs (OTLA) on April 23, 2008. The submission alleged several serious labor violations, including the firing of numerous union officers and members, the failure of employers to bargain in good faith, and failing to make required contributions into the health care system so that workers injured on the job can receive medical attention, among several others. The complaint also alleged the assassination of two union leaders for reasons related to their union activity. On January 15, 2009, the OTLA issued its report. In each of the five cases detailed in the submission, the OTLA sustained both the facts and legal arguments, in whole or in large part, of the submitters. Indeed, in some cases, the report contained additional factual findings even more troubling than those alleged in the submission. For example, the report provides additional details regarding several, repeated failures by the government to act, including: a) failure of labor inspectors to conduct inspections over employers’ objections (12 times); b) repeated failure of inspectors to use police power to access facilities when companies refused entry; and c) repeated failure of courts to enforce orders, where failure to comply with an order constitutes a criminal violation (11 times), among others. The OTLA found at that time that in no case had the labor violations been remedied in accordance with the law of Guatemala. In the end, the OTLA gave the government six months to act on a set of recommendations related both to the resolution of the individual cases and to systemic failures in the administration of labor justice. On July 16, the OTLA will determine whether it will make a recommendation to the Secretary of Labor to call for formal consultations. It is our understanding that the government has made some, but insufficient, progress in the individual cases highlighted and has yet to begin to address the systemic concerns. We urge you to act upon these recommendations quickly and comprehensively. The government must commit itself to do all that it can to tackle the continued exploitation of workers. If your government is willing to address this issue seriously, we will of course provide what support we can for your efforts. We firmly believe that improving working conditions is in the long term interest of Guatemala. As the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has observed, “countries which strengthen their core labor standards can increase economic growth and efficiency by raising skill levels in the work force and by creating an environment which encourages innovation and higher productivity.” Further, “any fear that better core standards would negatively affect the economic performance [of Guatemala] or [its] competitive position in world markets has no economic rationale.” Sincerely, Linda Sánchez, Phil Hare, Tammy Baldwin, Bruce Braley, Michael Capuano, Andre Carson, John Conyers, Danny Davis, Peter DeFazio, William Delahunt, Rosa DeLauro, Lloyd Doggett, Eliot Engel, Chaka Fattah, Bob Filner, Al Green, Raul Grijalva, Rush Holt, Hank Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Dennis Kucinich, Barbara Lee, Sander Levin, Dan Lipinski, Stephen Lynch, Eric Massa, James McGovern, Michael Michaud, Dennis Moore, Gwen Moore, Eleanor Holmes Norton, James Oberstar, Donald Payne, Jan Schakowsky, Brad Sherman, Adam Smith, Pete Stark, Betty Sutton, John Tierney, Lynn Woolsey, 1 The government of Guatemala ratified the Central America Free Trade Agreement on March 10, 2005. The agreement entered into force between the United States and Guatemala on July 1, 2006. 2 OECD, International Trade and Core Labor Standards (2000), p. 3. 3 OECD, Trade, Employment and Labor Standards (1996), p. 38.
07.09.2009	Invites constituents to share stories, suggestions on health care reform Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the Ways and Means Committee, which is developing health care reform legislation, today unveiled "Linda’s Online Health Care Forum," and invited her constituents to share their questions, suggestions, and stories with her through her website. “I want my constituents to have a forum where they can easily have a dialogue with me on health care reform,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I believe health care reform should include as many voices as possible to make reform a reality. Hearing from my own constituents from southern California will help us as Congress prepares to pass quality, affordable health care for all.” The Ways and Means Committee is one of three House committees developing health care legislation. Health care costs already consume a disproportionate share of the federal budget while leaving nearly 50 million people with no health coverage. This paradox burdens American families, makes our businesses less competitive, and makes health costs a leading cause of personal bankruptcy. The draft proposal from the Committee would protect what works in our health care system and reform what doesn’t, encouraging competition to lower costs and increase choice. In addition, the bill would prohibit unfair health insurance practices that are legal today, including “gender rating,” charging women more for health insurance simply because they are women. This provision is based on Congresswoman Sánchez’ Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act, H.R. 2635. “Right now, America spends nearly twice as much more per person on health care than any other country and all that spending isn’t making us any healthier,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It makes no sense to place such a tremendous burden on working families without real benefits in health outcomes and worker productivity. Reforming our health care financing system will help get our economy back on track and help every American family afford comprehensive, high quality care.”
06.30.2009	New Benefits will make Federal Student Loan Payments More Manageable to Repay Washington, DC - On July 1, new benefits will take effect that will make student loans more affordable to repay by allowing borrowers to cap their monthly loan payments at a reasonable percentage of their income. Certain eligible low-and moderate-income students taking out new federal student loans will also see lower interest rates and higher Pell Grant scholarships. “As one of the few Members of Congress still paying off student loans, I fought hard for essential help for students who are working their way through college,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Getting an affordable college education has never been more important. College graduates should be able to choose careers based on their skills and interests, rather than on the size of student loan payments. This will make loan repayment easier for students, no matter what job they take.” The benefits are all kicking in as part of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, which Rep. Sánchez helped enact in 2007 under the new Democratic Congress. The legislation invested $20 billion in college aid for families, at no additional cost to taxpayers - the single largest investment to help Americans pay for college since the GI Bill. Beginning July 1, for the first time, borrowers will be able to participate in a new Income-Based Repayment program that caps their monthly loan payments at just 15 percent of their discretionary income (defined as 15 percent of what a borrower earns above 150 percent of the poverty level for their family size). “This new program gives our students the help they need to get a quality college education and continue on their paths to lifetime success,” continued Sánchez. Any current or future borrower whose loan payments exceed 15 percent of their discretionary income will be eligible. After 25 years in the program, borrowers’ remaining loan balances, including interest, will be completely forgiven. Other benefits that go into effect July 1 include: * Cheaper interest rates on need-based (subsidized) federal student loans. On July 1, interest rates on these loans will continue to drop, from 6 percent to 5.6 percent. This is the second of four annual cuts in this interest rate; it will continue to drop until it reaches 3.4 percent in 2011. Nationwide, about 5.5 million students take out subsidized student loans each year. * Higher Pell Grant scholarships for low- and moderate-income students. Due to funding boosts provided by both the College Cost Reduction and Access Act and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the maximum Pell Grant scholarship for the 2009-2010 school year will be $5,350 - more than $600 above last year’s award. About 6 million students receive this scholarship each year. In addition, Americans will continue to be able to enter into a new public service loan forgiveness created under the law. College graduates - or workers of any age - who enter public service professions will have their federal college loans completely forgiven after ten consecutive years of service and loan repayments. Eligible public servants include firefighters, public defenders and prosecutors, first responders, law enforcement officers, early childhood educators and men and women serving in the military, and more. This program can be used in conjunction with Income-Based Repayment. Recent data shows that Americans’ interest in public service is surging. This year’s applications for programs like Teach for America and AmeriCorps have skyrocketed by 42 percent and 200 percent, respectively.
06.30.2009	Local High School Artist's Piece on Display in Nation’s Capitol Washington, DC - South Gate resident Xochitl Castillo, who attends South Gate High School, is this year’s winner of Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Annual 39th Congressional District High School Arts Competition. Castillo’s piece is called “Storyland.” “I love this competition because it shows me just how talented and creative our local students are,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Xochitl is certainly a gifted artist. I am proud to see her work on display in the Capitol where my colleagues and I walk through every day on our way to work, and where thousands of tourists visit throughout the year.” Of over 100 entries received, Castillo’s piece was selected by a panel of local art experts as the overall winner from seven artistic categories. Castillo and two guests attended a reception last week in Washington, D.C. Her artwork then went on display in the U.S. Capitol Building. Students from all over California’s 39th District participated in the art competition. After the awards announcement and local reception held at Cerritos College, Castillo’s winning piece was sent to Washington, DC to hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Free air fare and lodging was provided for Castillo and one family member to travel to Washington for the official award presentation. The artwork of the second and third place finishers in the Congressional Arts Competition will be showcased in Congresswoman Sánchez’ office in Cerritos. “This is just one part of my effort to inspire our youth in their education and creative development,” continued Sánchez.
06.26.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez today voted for the American Clean Energy and Security Act to revitalize our economy by creating millions of new jobs, increase our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and preserve our planet by reducing the pollution that causes global warming. “I want my constituents to know the facts - the cost of this legislation is equal to about a postage stamp a day - regardless of what critics are saying,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “There is no way to quantify the cost of doing nothing, but it is clear that the costs to our economy and environment will be catastrophic compared to the minimal cost of acting now.” “By making investments in clean energy, we are creating whole new industries with millions of good-paying American jobs, and generating hundreds of billions of dollars in energy savings,” continued Sánchez. “Our actions in Congress today show that the United States is ready to lead the world on the effort to fight global warming and reduce dependence on fossil fuels. We will not stand for any more wasted years of damage to the planet and the health of our children.”
06.25.2009	Bill gives seniors, people with disabilities, and families option to choose adult day care under Medicare Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act which would allow seniors, people with disabilities, and their families by including adult day care as a covered service in Medicare. “Adult day care is a family-friendly option for seniors who require rehabilitation and other assistance with daily life tasks, but don’t require 24-hour care,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The Medicare Adult Day Care Services Act is a cost-effective way to add more choice to Medicare because it would pay adult day care providers 98% of the home health rate and give our seniors the option to choose adult day care. This not only helps the patient but the patient’s family who most likely has another job in addition to being a fulltime caregiver.” In addition to increasing choices for seniors and people with disabilities, this bill would provide a vital service to family caregivers. These caregivers (who are primarily women and who typically come from families with lower average incomes than non-caregiving families) lose an average of $659,139 in wages, pension benefits, and Social Security benefits over a lifetime, so providing Medicare beneficiaries the option of adult day care helps protect incomes for family caregivers without adding to the cost of Medicare. “The American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, the National Adult Day Services Association, Easter Seals, the National Council on Aging, and the Texas, New Jersey, North Carolina, Arkansas, Arizona, Wisconsin, California, and New York Adult Day Associations commend Rep. Sanchez for promoting the use of quality, cost-effective medical adult day services as a way to improve Medicare post-acute services for older adults and persons with disabilities,” said Larry Minnix, CEO of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging. Click here to read A Maturing Option: Day Care for Seniors, a compelling story on adult day care.
06.24.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez announced internship opportunities in her district office in Cerritos, CA and encouraged students to apply. Deadline for the Fall Session Internship is Friday, August 14, 2009. “I encourage students interested in the legislative process and contributing to the betterment of Southern California to apply for an internship at my office,” Rep. Linda Sánchez said. “An internship in my Cerritos office can offer our young rising stars a tremendous learning and service opportunity.” Rep. Linda Sánchez is seeking college students and recent graduates to apply for internships for the Fall Session. Internships are geared to college students and recent grads with an interest in communication, law, politics, urban planning, and related fields. Internship duties will include press monitoring, event preparation, constituent services and local issue research. Interested students should contact Rep. Sánchez’ Cerritos office at 562-860-5050 to apply. Applicants can visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov for requirements, deadlines, and an online application. Click here to view a video by Patrick Martinez, a 22-year old who recently completed a fellowship in Rep. Sánchez’ Washington office. “Experience that you get here is something you can’t get anywhere else,” said Martinez. “If you are from Congresswoman Sánchez’ district, everything that she does here is for you. Wouldn’t you want to be a part of that?”
06.19.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the Cure and Understanding through Research for Alzheimer’s (La CURA) Act of 2009 to increase funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct adequate Alzheimer’s research, outreach, and education. “Last month, I was asked to give a speech at the premiere of HBO’s documentary, The Alzheimer’s Project - not because of all the work I have done in Congress on Alzheimer’s - but sadly because my father, who suffers from the disease, is featured in the film,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This legislation is near and dear to my heart because of my father and the millions of others like him who live every day with this disease. Help must be available for families of all colors and all ages whose resources are not sufficient to meet their needs. Increasing awareness, support, and outreach for those confronted with Alzheimer’s disease and for their families will help better equip our nation to face this disease.” Every 71 seconds, someone develops Alzheimer’s disease, and by midcentury, someone will develop this disease every 33 seconds. This is important for all communities throughout the United States, but particularly for Hispanics who the Census Bureau projects, given long life spans and increasing growth within the American population, will experience a six-fold increase of Alzheimer’s cases by 2050. The increase in Alzheimer's in the Hispanic population is particularly troubling because physicians, who diagnose and treat Alzheimer's, and caregivers, who help Alzheimer's patients get through the day, often lack Spanish language skills or sufficient knowledge of the culture to ensure that their treatment recommendations are carried out effectively. Lack of access to health care and a strong cultural commitment to caring for one’s elders within the family are among the factors that make Hispanics with dementia less likely than non-Hispanics to see a physician and use related services provided by formal health professionals. Hispanic caregivers surveyed were significantly more likely (33 percent) than caregivers of other races (23 percent) to believe that Alzheimer’s disease is a normal part of the aging process and were also significantly more likely (67 percent) to dismiss the symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease as old age than other respondents of other races (53 percent). Delays in diagnosis and lack of early and consistent treatment can lead to higher levels of impairment and increased stress on family caregivers. “The Alzheimer’s Foundation of America is pleased to endorse La Cura Act of 2009 and thanks Congresswoman Linda Sanchez for her leadership in helping to promote public awareness of Alzheimer's disease, especially among Hispanic populations,” said Eric J. Hall, President and CEO of the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. “Access to early diagnosis and treatment are critical for all individuals with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias and for those of minority ethnic backgrounds in particular. Issues of stigma and mistrust as well as language and communication barriers are often magnified in the Hispanic community. Under La Cura Act, the NIH will have the necessary resources to examine ethnic health disparities that interfere with optimal quality of care. The act's emphasis on education related to risk reduction and the training of healthcare professionals to recognize and diagnose Alzheimer's disease are essential elements for disease management. By addressing key issues plaguing the Alzheimer's community, La Cura Act offers hope for families facing this heartbreaking disease." La CURA will authorize increased funding to conduct adequate Alzheimer’s research, outreach, and education. The legislation helps expand the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Alzheimer’s education and outreach activities in all communities, including those with cultural concerns about participation in sensitive research like the collection of brain tissue and genetic information. La CURA will address deficiencies in research participation by encouraging increased Hispanic participation in NIH clinical trials and epidemiological studies, promoting identification of culturally competent care, and addressing delays in diagnosis and underutilization of services by Hispanic patients.
06.18.2009	Governor’s proposed cuts would affect 1.3 million low-income seniors and people with disabilities Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez and four other members of the California Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger today, urging him to spare Supplemental Security Income/State Supplementary Payment (SSI/SSP) recipients from his proposed statewide budgetary cuts. “The Governor has already planned to cut a variety of public assistance, health, and education programs,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “We cannot pull the rug out from under seniors and those who need help the most. I urge Governor Schwarzenegger to think about the implications of his proposal before he slashes their benefits.” Rep. Linda Sánchez is a member of the Ways and Means Committee and its Subcommittee on Social Security. Full text is as follows: Dear Governor Schwarzenegger: As you continue to work toward restoring the state of California to fiscal stability, we write to urge you to reconsider your proposal to cut critical State Supplemental Payment (SSP) benefits to Supplemental Security Income/State Supplementary Payment (SSI/SSP) recipients in California as of October 2009. Full funding for this public assistance program will keep the most vulnerable Californians from sliding further into poverty. In addition, their ability to afford necessities like food, clothing, and shelter will put money back into the economy, helping to further the state’s economic recovery. We are aware that you are grappling with a $24 billion budget deficit and certainly understand the competing interests before you as well as the difficult decisions you face. However, we also understand the harmful consequences that further cutting SSP payments will have on the 1.3 million Californians affected. If enacted, your proposal to cut the SSP grant program in October will mark the third time this year that California’s elderly and disabled will see a reduction in their benefits. As a result, an estimated 18,000 SSI/SSP recipients who would otherwise be eligible for the SSP payment would lose their entire benefit. Perhaps more devastating are the individuals who will lose their Medi-Cal eligibility due to the SSP cuts already enacted. In July 32,000 individuals will lose assistance and even more in October unless this proposal is rescinded. Medi-Cal provides critical healthcare assistance to this fragile population; cutting it in addition to cash assistance will only hasten the slide of some SSP recipients from poverty into homelessness or worse. We strongly believe that cutting State Supplementary Payment benefits to our most vulnerable seniors and people with disabilities is detrimental to California’s future and will hinder our economic recovery. We encourage you to continue looking for alternative ways to help the state close its budget gap without hurting our seniors and disabled. Respectfully, Linda Sánchez Fortney “Pete” Stark Bob Filner Diane Watson Grace Napolitano
06.17.2009	Washington, DC - Reps. Linda Sánchez and Mike Honda fought for and won support for an amendment that would increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). The amendment was part of the fiscal year 2010 Commerce-Justice-Science Spending Bill which passed the House of Representatives Tuesday night. SCAAP provides federal payments to states and localities to reimburse them for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens with at least one felony or two misdemeanor convictions for violations of state or local law and incarcerated for at least four consecutive days during the reporting period. Rep. Sánchez’ full statement for the Congressional Record is below. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support this amendment to increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). When the Federal government passed SCAAP in 1994, it recognized its responsibility to reimburse states and localities for the arrest, incarceration, and transportation costs associated with criminal aliens. Unfortunately, this program has been consistently under-funded. This year was not the first time a President proposed no funding for the SCAAP program. Fortunately, the Appropriations Committee allocated $300 million to the program. While this level is significantly better than zero, it remains $100 million below the 2009 funding level. Our amendment will provide that additional $100 million for SCAAP. Even with $400 million, states and localities would still only receive reimbursement for a small fraction of what they are spending. This inadequate funding has had a devastating effect on public safety, especially in California and other border states. At a time when many states and counties face budget shortfalls, every dollar reduction in SCAAP reimbursement means one less dollar to spend on essential public safety services. Following SCAAP funding cuts in 2003, the LA County Sheriff’s Department was forced to implement a new “early release” policy for inmates convicted of misdemeanors. From a public safety perspective, it is far better for criminals to serve their full sentences. Without adequate resources, other programs will have to be scaled back or terminated to accomplish this goal. Basic police protection, anti-gang activities, homicide investigations, anti-terrorism activities; and rehabilitation programs to reduce recidivism are programs that could face cuts in California and across the nation if this amendment does not pass. We introduced this bipartisan amendment to ensure that police chiefs and sheriffs do not have to choose between keeping our youth out of gangs and incarcerating criminal aliens. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you.”
06.09.2009	Ways and Means Committee outlines effort to reduce costs, protect current coverage, and preserve choice to ensure affordable, quality care for all Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez and her Democratic colleagues on the influential House Ways and Means Committee met with President Barack Obama today in the State Dining Room at the White House to discuss health care proposals. “We had a very productive meeting with President Obama which underscored that we share a commitment to fixing our broken health care system,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I told President Obama that health care reform should include as many people as possible, and a better safety net for those who will still have problems affording health insurance after the reforms are in place. These policies make sense for the economy, because they'll reduce emergency room use - the most expensive kind of care -and put the emphasis on cheaper preventive care, which will keep people healthy and working.” The Ways and Means Committee is one of three House committees developing health care legislation. An essential part of the health care proposal is a new public insurance plan option that would compete with private plans and put a check on out-of-control prices. Health care costs burden U.S. businesses and families, are a leading cause of bankruptcy, and eat away at federal and state budgets. Rep. Linda Sánchez assured President Obama that she would work tirelessly with him to help reform the U.S. health care system, aiming to cut costs and ensure that millions of working families now without health insurance get access to affordable, high quality care. Earlier today, leaders of the Committees with jurisdiction over health policy outlined a framework which fulfills President Obama’s commitment to health reform that: * Reduces costs; * Protects current coverage and preserves choice of doctors, hospitals, and health plans; and * Ensures affordable, quality health care for all. Please click here to view the outline.
06.08.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today in honor of U.S. Army First Sgt. Blue C. Rowe, of Whittier, CA, who was killed in action in Afghanistan. To view Rep. Sánchez’ speech click here . Statement for the Record - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) on the Death of U.S. Army First Sgt. Blue Rowe of Whittier, CA in Afghanistan Monday, June 08, 2009 Madam Speaker, It is with great sadness that I rise to pay tribute to U.S. Army First Sgt. Blue C. Rowe. Sgt. Rowe, a devoted husband and father, was a constituent of mine from Whittier, California. This brave American was killed in action in Afghanistan on May 26, 2009, on the 15th anniversary of his service in the military. Sgt. Rowe was killed by an improvised explosive device. The thirty-three year-old Rowe leaves behind his seven year-old son Andrew and his wife, Cindy. My thoughts and prayers go out to Cindy and Andrew. I hope that they can find some solace in the gratitude that our nation owes to Sgt. Rowe for his honorable service to his countrymen. Sgt. Rowe spent his entire adult life serving our country. He joined the Army in 1994 and served in Operation Iraqi Freedom. Last July, he mobilized again for duty in Afghanistan. He and his family have made the greatest sacrifice that one can make, and we are forever in his debt. Sgt. Rowe, whose life embodied the meaning of the word “patriot,” will be missed by family, friends, and colleagues, but his honorable deeds will not be forgotten.
06.05.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez helped secure funding today for the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) after tireless efforts to urge members of the Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee to provide increased funding in the fiscal year 2010 CJS Appropriations bill, so that more low-income families and individuals can access legal assistance. “With our economy in trouble and numerous working families facing foreclosure, more individuals need legal assistance programs for help and advice,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the House Judiciary Committee. “It is critical that legal assistance programs have adequate funding to provide working families with equal access to justice. I applaud the Subcommittee for understanding the importance of this funding.” At the request of Rep. Sánchez and several of her colleagues, the CJS Subcommittee will also partially rescind restrictions on how charitable legal providers who receive Legal Services Corporation funds can use the funds they receive from private donors. Such restrictions have severely limited the types of legal assistance private organizations can provide to families in need. Removing restrictions on the use of non-LSC funds will significantly broaden the resource base for programs receiving LSC funds without the need for additional Federal funding. Programs which receive Legal Services Corporation funding help the most vulnerable, such as families facing unlawful evictions or foreclosures, displaced persons attempting to obtain federal emergency assistance, and women seeking protection from abuse. Since 2005, several reports have shown the impact of underfunding of legal services programs: * In California, more than 66 percent of the civil legal needs of low-income Californians go unmet. * In Wisconsin, 80 percent of poor households facing a legal problem do so without an attorney. * In Utah, 87 percent of poor households facing a legal problem do so without an attorney. * In New Jersey, 99 percent of defendants in eviction cases are unrepresented by an attorney.
05.26.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), issued the following statement in response to the California Supreme Court’s decision to uphold Proposition 8, the ballot initiative narrowly approved by voters last November that amended the California constitution to eliminate the right of same-sex couples to marry. "I strongly opposed Proposition 8 and am disappointed that the Court determined it to be valid,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “However, I applaud the Court's conclusion that Prop 8 will not abrogate equal protection or due process rights guaranteed to all citizens by the California Constitution and cannot tear families apart by nullifying same-sex marriages that already exist."
05.26.2009	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, the first Hispanic woman to serve on the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s nomination of U.S. Court of Appeals Second Circuit Judge Sonia Sotomayor as his nominee to serve on the United States Supreme Court. “With this nomination, another glass ceiling has been broken for Hispanics in this country,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Judge Sotomayor’s life is a testament to the power of education and hard work that defines and lifts so many immigrant families. She is uniquely qualified to ensure that all communities are treated fairly in the eyes of the law. I hope she is speedily confirmed.”
05.22.2009	Washington, DC In honor of Memorial Day, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) donated 25,000 of her unused frequent flyer miles to turn them into “Hero Miles,” for the Operation Hero Miles program that provides free plane tickets for the family members of wounded troops. “Sometimes the love and familiar face of a family member is the best medicine to help a servicemember recover from an injury,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It is with deep respect that I offer this small gesture to support our men and women in uniform and make it just a little bit easier for them to see their families.” About Operation Hero Miles Operation Hero Miles was created by Congressman C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) in 2003, after visiting BWI-Thurgood Marshall Airport. At that time, military personnel on R and R leave were dropped off in Baltimore and forced to pay their way home from there. The Congressman worked together with the airlines and created "Operation Hero Miles" to give the troops free plane tickets home. Now that R and R travel is paid for by the military, "Operation Hero Miles" gives family members of wounded servicemen and women free plane tickets to travel to a military hospital to be by the bedside of injured loved one. Operation Hero Miles gives ordinary citizens an opportunity to help our troops in a very direct way that makes a real difference in their lives. The program is brilliant in its simplicity. For more information on donating, or to see if you are eligible for a ticket, visit www.heromiles.org. Congress has made historic gains for America’s Troops, Veterans, and Military Families. Among these accomplishments include a New GI Bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, the largest increase in history for veterans’ health care and other services, and significant strides in rebuilding the American military and strengthening other benefits for our troops and military families. VIETNAM VETERANS Every Congress, Rep. Sánchez introduces a “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” resolution to help honor and recognize the many Vietnam veterans who returned to the United States in the 1960’s and 1970’s without a formal “thank you” or “welcome home” as has traditionally been given to returning service members in our nation. In addition, Sánchez attends a “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans” event in her district to celebrate and honor veterans. This year, she was proud to secure medals for Mr. Frank Gonzales, of Whittier, CA who served in the U.S. Army, including a tour of duty in Vietnam. Rep. Sánchez helped him to receive his 12 earned medals, including the Purple Heart for injuries sustained in combat and the Bronze Star for saving the life of a fellow soldier. EXPANDING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY " New GI Bill for the 21st Century takes effect August 1 to restore promise of a full, four-year college education for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan; veterans can sign up now. " Gives businesses a $2,400 tax credit for hiring unemployed veterans. " Provides nearly 2 million disabled veterans a $250 Economic Recovery payment. " Expands relief, homeownership opportunities, and refinancing options for returning veterans through VA home loans. " Creates a new Veterans Corps to provide services to veterans and military families, as well as creates volunteer opportunities for veterans. STRENGTHENING HEALTH CARE " Increases funding for veterans’ health care and other services by $17.7 billion (more than 40%) since January 2007 -- including the largest single increase in the history of the VA. This is more of an increase in less than three years than the Republican-controlled Congress provided in 12 years. " Strengthens quality health care for 5.8 million patients -- adding more than 8,000 new doctors and nurses since 2007 " Veterans’ budget this year, which was hailed as “cause for celebration” by the American Legion, provides veterans’ health care and other services the largest funding increase (nearly 12%) ever requested by a President. " Expands mental health screening and treatment " Ends Bush’s ban on enrolling modest-income veterans for VA health care " Allows Congress to provide VA medical investments one year in advance to ensure sufficient, timely and predictable funding " Strongly supported by major veterans’ organizations, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, Vietnam Veterans of America, and Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America " Cleans up the scandal of inadequate support for our wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and facilities nationwide. " Improves outpatient medical care, restores integrity, and efficiency to disability evaluations, cuts red-tape " Smoothes the transition from the Armed Forces to VA system implementing a single, accurate, paperless health record from enlistment through retirement " Rebuilds and renovates VA and military hospitals " Strengthens mental health services critical to the estimated 620,000 troops returning from Iraq or Afghanistan who suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), depression, or traumatic brain injuries (TBI). " Invests in DOD research for TBI and PTSD, along with counseling, suicide prevention, telehealth, and risk reduction efforts for troops and families " Establishes comprehensive suicide prevention services for veterans and a 24-hour tollfree suicide hotline, helping to prevent an estimated 1,200 suicides in the first year " Eliminates the TRICARE and veterans health care fee increases proposed by President Bush. IMPROVING BENEFITS FOR TROOPS AND MILITARY FAMILIES " Gives troops a pay raise of 3.5 percent in 2008 and 3.9 percent in 2009, larger than the Bush budget in both years. " Retroactively provides more than 170,000 service members and veterans with $500 for every month they were forced to serve under stop-loss orders since 2001. " Addresses the 396,000 veterans’ claims backlog and the 177-day average wait for veterans to access earned benefits by adding 7,100 new claims processors. " Builds new transition centers for wounded warriors, more military child care centers, better barracks, and military family housing. " Provides Family Medical Leave for families of soldiers wounded in combat. " Reduces Military Families Tax on surviving spouses. REBUILDING THE AMERICAN MILITARY " Provides troops in Iraq and Afghanistan with better equipment, including Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles proven to save lives. " Creates a Strategic Reserve Readiness Fund to rapidly address military equipment shortfalls. " Ensures more equipment, training, and body armor for troops. " Strengthens National Guard preparedness for disaster response here at home, including providing more equipment.
05.21.2009	Introduce the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act Washington, DC - Reps. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), along with Ginny Brown-Waite (R-FL), introduced bi-partisan legislation today that would prohibit health insurance companies from engaging in “gender rating,” a practice which charges women more for health insurance premiums than men. The Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act would amend the Public Health Service Act to prohibit gender rating in both the group and individual markets. “As a woman and having been in the hospital recently for the birth of my son, I understand how expensive health care can be,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Yet insurers in the individual and small group markets can legally discriminate -- by charging higher premiums to women simply because they are women. This blatant discrimination forces many women and their families to receive poor care or go without, and it is time to put it to an end.” “It is ludicrous that in this day and age, insurance companies can charge women more simply for being women,” said Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite. “That is the definition of discrimination and it must end. As the health care reform debate rages on, this is an important fix that can make a real difference now.” "We’ve listed our “Top 5 Reasons Health Insurance Isn’t Fair to Women,” a compelling list of realities for why we need the Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act,” Rep. Sánchez stated. “This is one small step to level the playing field and make health care accessible and affordable for all - regardless of gender.” Top 5 Reasons Health Insurance Isn’t Fair to Women 5. Twenty-one million women and girls went without health insurance in 2007. In addition to requiring reproductive healthcare - yearly pap smears, mammograms, and obstetric care - women are twice as likely to suffer from headaches, and more likely to experience joint, back or neck pain. Women are also four times as likely to develop osteoporosis. 4. Women are less likely to be employed full-time than men, making them less eligible for employer-based health benefits themselves. In fact, less than half of women can get health insurance through their work. 3. A survey by the National Women’s Law Center found that the vast majority of individual market health insurance policies did not cover maternity care. Moreover, it is still legal in 9 states for insurers to reject applicants who are survivors of domestic violence. 2. In a recent national survey, more than half of women (52%) reported delaying or avoiding needed care because of cost, compared with 39% of men. In addition, one-third of women were forced to make a difficult tradeoff such as using up their savings, taking on debt, or giving up basic necessities. 1. Women are often charged higher premiums than men. Holding other factors constant, a 22 year old woman can be charged one and a half times the premium of a 22 year old man. *Statistics for this list were obtained from studies and research compiled by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The Gender Equity in Health Premiums Act has been endorsed by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. “I congratulate Reps. Sánchez and Brown-Waite on this important legislation,” said Gerald F. Joseph, MD, President, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. “Insurers stopped charging minorities higher premiums, just because of their race, more than 40 years ago. With this legislation, health care reform will ensure fair insurance rules for women, too.”
05.20.2009	Los Angeles ranks among the least prepared for the upcoming switch - coming in just 23 days Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today encouraged residents, especially those in Los Angeles, to get ready for the national switch to digital television on June 12 so they can continue to receive important local television news, TV programs, and emergency information. Los Angeles ranks among the least prepared cities in the nation for the digital transition, according to the Department of Commerce. “I know lots of people that still buy presents on Christmas Eve and mail in their taxes on April 15,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “But the digital TV transition is an event that will need timely preparation. If you haven’t already, I urge you to get your converter boxes or otherwise resolve any technical issues before the June 12 deadline so that you don't miss out on important news or your favorite show.” Many local broadcasters will be participating in coordinated DTV “soft tests” Thursday, May 21, 2009. These tests are designed to alert analog viewers who are unprepared for the impending transition that they will lose service once the transition occurs unless they act promptly to get ready. Instead of completely cutting off the analog signal, during the soft test, broadcasters will interrupt the regular programming of analog signals to warn viewers if they are not prepared for the transition. Consumers need to begin preparing for this monumental change now, not only to enjoy the benefits of digital television, but to avoid losing their television service altogether. Families who receive their television signal over-the-air, using a traditional rooftop antenna or “rabbit ears" on older TVs will have to acquire a new “digital to analog” converter box to ensure that their television sets can display the new digital signals. Viewers who have newer, digital-ready TVs, or who receive their signal through cable, satellite, or broadband service will not require a new converter box. The Department of Commerce has set up a program to help consumers defray the cost of converter boxes, which are expected to cost between $50 and $75. Every household is eligible for two $40 coupons, each of which can be used toward the purchase of a converter box. Consumers can apply online and also go online to find a converter box retailer near you. Consumers can call 1-888-DTV-2009 or visit https://www.dtv2009.gov to learn more.
05.20.2009	Home Care Workers Should Have the Right to Minimum Wage and Overtime Pay Washington, DC - Members of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, along with several of their colleagues, sent a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, urging her to ensure fair labor protections for home care workers, who are denied minimum wage and home care protection under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). “Home care workers are the backbone of our nation’s long-term care system, providing essential care and daily living services to more than 15 million Americans,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus. “However, these are among the worst-paying jobs in America - mostly because of Department of Labor regulations that exclude them from federal minimum wage and overtime protections.” “Our ability to meet our nation’s long term care challenges depends largely on a strong workforce of home care workers,” said Rep. Michael Michaud, Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus. “It is therefore critical that we replace the existing regulations and ensure that these workers, who provide essential services to our nation’s elderly and disabled, have the right to a minimum wage and overtime pay.” “The country will need thousands of home care workers if it’s going to keep up with baby boomers and families who cannot afford nursing home care,” said Rep. Stephen Lynch, Co-Chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus. “Because home care jobs are so poorly compensated, and do not allow for meaningful wage increases or promotions, we are losing high-quality, compassionate caregivers.” Home health care is an affordable alternative to nursing home or other inpatient care that allows seniors and people with disabilities to remain independent and in their communities. Given the projected increase in demand for such care as the baby boom generation ages, the letter's signatories believe that the requested rule change will reduce caregiver turnover, increase quality care, and benefit families headed by these hardworking, but low-wage earners. The Washington Post recently ran a compelling piece following the daily lives of home care workers. Click here to read Marilyn Daniel’s Reward: She works long hours for low wages as a home health aide -- a job so demanding and underappreciated that others leave in droves. So why hasn't she? Text of the letter to Secretary Solis is as follows: Dear Secretary Solis: Please allow us to congratulate you on your nomination and confirmation as Secretary of Labor. We write today with regard to home care workers, who are denied minimum wage and home care protection under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Rights earned decades ago by other similar workers continue to be denied to these hardworking employees on the front lines of health care provision. In 1975, after Congress had revised the FLSA to include previously excluded domestic service workers, the Department of Labor issued rules that exempted home care aides from federal overtime and minimum wage protections. The Clinton Administration’s Department of Labor issued proposed rules to correct this injustice, but the Bush Administration withdrew those proposals. Rapidly growing demand for home and community based care for elders and people with disabilities has made home care work one of the few high-growth occupations where a college education is not required. Unfortunately, it also suffers from one of the highest turnover rates. There were more than 1.5 million home care aides as of 2006, and by 2016 there is a projected need for another three-quarters of a million. But if labor conditions are not improved, the demand for more workers may prove difficult to meet, quality of care may decline, and those within the industry will find themselves less and less able to meet basic living expenses for themselves and their families. The U.S. Supreme Court has affirmed the authority of the U.S. Department of Labor to issue rules that determine the scope of the “companionship” exemption (Long Island Care at Home, Ltd. v. Coke, 551 U.S. 158 (2007)). We ask that you exercise your authority to issue new rules that give home care workers employed by home care agencies the rights already enjoyed by every other worker in long-term care. As you take on your new role as Secretary of Labor, we look forward to working with you to better the lives of workers and their families. Congratulations again, and thank you for your attention to this important matter facing home care workers. Should your staff need any further information, please do not hesitate to contact Celeste Drake in the office of Rep. Linda Sánchez at 202-225-6676. Sincerely, Linda T. Sánchez Michael Michaud Stephen Lynch Joe Baca Corrine Brown Lois Capps Andre Carson Donna M. Christensen Danny K. Davis William Delahunt Sam Farr Chaka Fattah Bob Filner Raul Grijalva Phil Hare Alcee Hastings Martin Heinrich Ruben Hinojosa Mike Honda Eddie Bernice Johnson Marcy Kaptur Jim Langevin John Lewis George Miller James Oberstar Chellie Pingree Ciro Rodriguez Lucille Roybal-Allard Bobby Rush Tim Ryan Gregorio Kilili Sablan Jan Schakowsky Betty Sutton Mike Thompson Diane Watson Charlie Wilson Lynn Woolsey
05.15.2009	Cyberbully Mom Will Face Punishment Monday Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), issued the following statement today in anticipation of Lori Drew’s sentencing scheduled for Monday, May 18, 2009 in federal court in Los Angeles. “What Lori Drew did was egregious, and she should be brought to justice,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “She has been walking free for over three years, while her victim’s family has been suffering greatly. Cyberbullies like Lori, and victims like Megan, are the reason that I introduced the Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act. Cyberbullying should be treated as a serious crime and prosecutors should be better equipped to deal with serious consequences.” Drew, who lives in Missouri, but was tried in California, was convicted of three misdemeanor counts of illegally accessing a protected computer. The charges stemmed from the death of 13-year-old Megan Meier, who committed suicide as a result of Drew’s scheme to adopt a fake MySpace identity to torment and emotionally harass Megan. Missouri authorities were not able to file any charges against Drew because at the time, there was no applicable state law. The trial was held in Los Angeles because the servers of the MySpace social networking site are in the area. If a cyberbullying law had been in place, it would have been simple to prosecute and convict Drew. Unfortunately, prosecutors in Megan’s case and similar others are left with their hands tied. The Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act would give federal prosecutors the ability to punish those individuals who use electronic means to engage in this type of criminal behavior. To read more about Rep. Sánchez’ cyberbullying legislation, piece on the Huffington Post.
05.13.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and her husband, Jim Sullivan, announced the birth of their first child, Joaquin Sánchez Sullivan. The healthy baby boy was born at 9:13a.m., Wednesday, May 13, 2009 weighing 7 pounds, 14.6 ounces and was 20.6 inches long. “I couldn’t be happier,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Linda and I have been blessed with a beautiful baby boy,” said Jim Sullivan. “Mother and baby are both healthy and happy. Joaquin’s arrival is a long awaited welcome in our lives and we are richer because of it.” At this time, the family is enjoying their new addition and will be introducing him to the 39th District soon.
05.12.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) sent a letter to top appropriations officials in Congress urging them to fund the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) with at least the $400 million appropriated in fiscal year 2009. “I had high hopes this Administration would have been more generous to the SCAAP program in its budget proposal,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It is ironic that California, which is already spending billions of dollars it doesn’t have to incarcerate undocumented persons in severely overcrowded prisons and jails, would be forced into a bigger budget deficit if SCAAP is terminated.” The letter, signed by Sánchez and 22 other congressional members, was sent to Reps. David Obey and Jerry Lewis, the top Democrat and Republican on the House Appropriations Committee, and Reps. Alan Mollohan and Frank Wolf, the top Democrat and Republican on the House Subcommittee on Science, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies. “When the former President tried to scrap SCAAP funding, I fought to make sure the program was funded, and I will do it again,” said Sánchez. “It is important that California taxpayers don't bear the entire burden of housing criminal aliens, when it should be the responsibility of the federal government.” The Obama administration’s proposed budget would end payments for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program. SCAAP provides federal payments to states and localities to reimburse them for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens with at least one felony or two misdemeanor convictions for violations of state or local law, and incarcerated for at least four consecutive days during the reporting period.
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. -- Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez announced that the $250 economic recovery payments for Social Security recipients, which were provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will begin to go out today, May 7 - with the goal of all these payments being sent out by the end of the month. “In our state of California, over 4 million Social Security recipients will be receiving a $250 payment,” stated Rep. Linda Sánchez. “That is about $19 million in payments in my district alone. This extra money can make a real difference in the lives of older and disabled Americans - many of whom have been hit especially hard by the economic crisis that has swept the country.” Millions of the Social Security recipients receiving these payments are widowed, divorced, or single and among the seniors with the lowest average incomes. These payments will make a difference: * Social Security is the only source of income for nearly one-third of all nonmarried seniors receiving Social Security. * The median annual income for nonmarried Social Security recipients over age 65 who are women is only $13,151. The median annual income of nonmarried Social Security recipients over age 65 who are men is only $17,611. * Nearly 30 percent of nonmarried Social Security recipients who are women over age 65 are poor or near-poor - with 17.4 percent living below the federal poverty line and another 10.8 percent with incomes below 125 percent of the poverty line. In addition to the economic recovery payments being made to Social Security and SSI recipients, the Recovery Act also provides these payments to disabled veterans and Railroad Retirement recipients. The payments to Railroad Retirement recipients are scheduled to begin to go out in late May and the payments to disabled veterans in June. In total, more than 50 million Americans will get this one-time payment. If someone regularly receives benefits from two or more of these programs - such as Social Security and Railroad Retirement, or a disabled veterans’ benefit and SSI - he or she will receive just one $250 payment. “These Recovery Payments are just one key provision of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which I was proud to support,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “Just one month after the inauguration, Congress sent the Recovery Act to President Obama in answer to his call for “action, bold and swift” to get our economy back on track.”
05.06.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, discussed healthcare reform during a hearing today with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius. Rep. Sánchez expressed concerns and offered to work with Secretary Sebelius to construct a plan that can help the unemployed and disconnected to access real healthcare. “Those who are not satisfied with the current system include not only those who do not get coverage through their workplace, but also those who lose coverage when they lose a job,” said Rep. Sánchez. “A constituent recently wrote me about the struggles she has gone through as a cancer patient after losing her job and the health insurance that went with it. While COBRA coverage exists, the reality is that most unemployed people cannot afford it.” The U.S. spends twice as much per person for health care as any other country in the world, and yet continues to lag behind other countries in terms of coverage and quality. There are nearly 47 million uninsured people in America, and millions more have inadequate coverage. The U.S. has lower life expectancy rates than all other industrialized countries, including Japan, Germany, Australia and Switzerland. Lack of health insurance coverage, rising costs and lower quality are intimately intertwined. Rep. Linda Sánchez asked, “Madame Secretary, how we might reform the system so that losing a job does not mean losing high quality, affordable coverage, even if we retain our current employer-based system? For example, how might the newly unemployed access the health insurance "exchange" to retain or obtain health insurance?” Secretary Sebelius responded to Rep. Sánchez that she shared her concerns about stabilization of our current healthcare system. Sebelius also mentioned the Recovery Act, recently passed by Congress and signed into law by the President, recognized the shortcomings of the current system and provided subsidies to help newly unemployed individuals afford COBRA health coverage. The Secretary indicated that in the future, she hopes to continue this coverage in an exchange program. In a statement submitted for the record, Sánchez added: “I am very concerned about the uninsured. I’d like to work with Secretary Sebelius to construct a plan that can help the disconnected to access real healthcare-to manage their chronic conditions and get preventive treatments; a plan that doesn’t bankrupt hospitals, drive away doctors with inadequate reimbursement rates, or leave struggling families without quality care.” President Obama has said that health care reform is both a moral and fiscal imperative. His principles for reform and the plan he proposed during the campaign envision a uniquely American system that assures affordable, quality health care for all Americans. This hearing was the first post-confirmation hearing before the Congress for Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius.
05.05.2009	Bill would help prevent bullying and harassment in schools, combat growing drop-out rate Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), introduced legislation today that would equip schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and harassment. The Safe Schools Improvement Act would promote a safe learning environment and reduce the nation’s growing drop-out rate. “It is time we combat outdated and erroneous beliefs that downplay the seriousness of bullying,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Bullying is not a harmless “rite of passage” and can no longer be brushed off as child’s play. Unlike child’s play, victims of bullying do not choose to participate, and rather than build character, bullying can cause children to become anxious, fearful, unhappy, and even cause them to be physically sick. “Schools may not always have the resources to train teachers to spot and prevent harmful bullying and this bill will allow them to use funds for proper training,” continued Sánchez. “Three-quarters of all school shooting incidents have been linked to bullying and harassment, and victims of bullying and harassment are more likely to be depressed or suicidal.” “Schools must provide a safe environment where our children can learn and grow up free of harassment and bullying and this legislation’s goals are to provide that very environment,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “The bill would require schools that receive funding from the Safe Drug Free and Communities Act to implement an anti bullying policy that protects students from bullying and includes protections based on sexual orientation, among other categories. “These past few months have seen cruel stories on national television of young children taking their own lives because they could no longer live with the scorn and shame heaped on them at school by other children, causing much justifiable indignation in the communities affected,” continued Ros-Lehtinen. “I urge my colleagues to pass this bill and help the countless children all across our nation who would consider taking their own lives rather than face another day at school. This is not what schools were intended for.” “Schools should be safe places where children can learn and grow, but far too often we hear about cruel acts of bullying and violence that can make schools dangerous and painful environments,” said Rep. Carolyn McCarthy. “The emotional and physical impacts of bullying have become more severe than ever and we as parents need to be proactive in dealing with this serious problem. This legislation is an important step in the right direction of bringing attention to the serious problem of bullying among our nation’s youth. I believe that this is a serious issue that merits the attention of Congress and I look forward to hearings and legislative action.” Research has shown that bullying and harassment are serious problems that impede students’ academic progress and overall mental health. Studies have found that nearly one-third of all students are bullied at least once a month and that one out of every ten high school drop-outs left school because of repeated bullying. Recently, Carl Joseph Walker-Hoover, of Massachusetts and Jaheem Herrera, of Georgia, both 11, killed themselves in separate incidents as a result of repeated and prolonged bullying. This bill will help teachers and schools address and stop the bullying before more tragedies like this occur. The Safe Schools Improvement Act would amend the Safe and Drug Free Schools and Communities Act to include specific provisions to prevent bullying and harassment. It would require states and districts to include information regarding the prevalence of bullying and harassment in schools as part of the needs assessments they are already required to complete. Inclusion of this data will help ensure that schools and districts are properly equipped to handle bullying and harassment. In addition, the Safe Schools Improvement Act would require every school to include policies to address bullying and harassment in their codes of conduct. This bill, which the sponsors hope will be included as part of legislation to reauthorize and improve the No Child Left Behind Act, also defines the terms “bullying” and “harassment” to include them in the broad definition of school violence and to ensure that all children, regardless of actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity, receive protection from bullying. A broad range of educational and non-educational organizations have expressed support for the Safe Schools Improvement Act, including the American Library Association; the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the National Council of La Raza; and the Human Rights Campaign.
04.30.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez debuted a “welcome video” on her YouTube channel today. In the video, Sánchez highlights her efforts on behalf of working families, her legislative priorities and shares personal anecdotes. “YouTube is a great way for my California constituents to find out what I am doing in Washington, get to know my position on issues important to them, and to see a personal side of me,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I want my constituents to know that they can connect with me in new ways, and don’t just have to sit down and write a letter.” Rep. Sánchez created the channel in an effort to engage with constituents using new media. The House of Representatives and Senate, in conjunction with YouTube, launched this new platform to help people access their Representative or Senator’s channel. This new platform is in line with Congress’ priorities to make government more transparent and accessible. In the welcome video, Sánchez states, “I am proud to be fighting for the working families in my district. Congress must continue to help middle class families by supporting tax cuts for people who need them, supporting measures that create green-collar jobs and expanding access to education.” Sánchez, a longtime softball player and strong supporter of Title IX, also mentions her love of sports. For the past three years, she has been the only woman to play on the Democratic team - and record a hit - in the Congressional Baseball Game, a charity game between Democratic and Republican Members of Congress. “Without Title IX, I don’t think I’d be teaching my male colleagues how to play hardball,” Rep. Sánchez said. Rep. Linda Sánchez YouTube channel is www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez, and includes videos from floor speeches, TV appearances, committee hearings, and district events. Last year, Sánchez joined Facebook to utilize another of the many ways technology can connect constituents with their elected officials.
04.30.2009	Votes for the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), today pushed and voted for the “Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights Act,” (H.R. 627), which provides crucial protections against unfair - and until now - common credit card practices. “In this economy, as more people are out of work, we cannot tolerate abusive and unfair practices by credit card companies that exploit hard-working families,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “In response to continual increases in interest rates and fees, Congress is cracking down to level the playing field between credit card companies and consumers.” This bill will help protect American consumers by banning retroactive rate hikes on existing balances, increasing advance notice of future rate increases, and giving cardholders more control over their credit limits. It also prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone, charging over-the-limit fees unless a consumer opts-in in advance or issuing credits cards to minors. It will abolish industry abuses that are deceptive and anti-competitive. “As hard times hit our neighborhoods, families may depend on credit cards to pay an electric bill, the weekly trip to the grocery store, or fill up their gas tank to get to work,” continued Sánchez. “I am proud we are ending these unconscionable practices today and giving cardholders the information and rights they deserve to make decisions about their own credit.” The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights: * Protects cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases * Prevents cardholders who pay on time from being unfairly penalized * Protects cardholders from due date gimmicks * Shields cardholders from misleading terms * Empowers cardholders to set limits on their credit * Requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments * Prohibits card companies from imposing excessive fees on cardholders * Prevents card companies from giving subprime credit cards to unqualified people * Requires Congress to provide better oversight of the credit card industry * Contains NO rate caps, fee setting, or price controls Last September, the Credit Cardholder’s Bill of Rights (H.R. 5244) passed the House, by a vote of 312-112, but the bill died in the Senate. It would have banned many of the worst unfair, deceptive and anti-competitive practices of the credit card industry including so called “universal” default, double-cycle billing, and retroactive rate hikes. In December, the Federal Reserve released final regulations that would ban many of these practices, but the new rules do not take effect until July 2010. The bill would take effect 90 days after the President signs it.
04.28.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, introduced legislation that will honor those who have died on the job and draw attention to the need for better enforcement of workplace health and safety laws. Sánchez, along with Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Bruce Braley (D-IA), introduced the Workers’ Memorial Day resolution today in Congress. “Every day, working people across California put their lives on the line,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Yet sadly, more than 5,000 Americans are killed each year due to workplace related injuries, and millions more experience occupational injuries and illnesses.” Today, Tuesday, April 28th, millions of workers worldwide will recognize Workers' Memorial Day in order to commemorate those who have been injured or killed on the job, and to remind us of the need to strive for better worker safety and health protections. It is estimated that 16 workers die every day in the U.S., many in the southern California region. On-the-job deaths occur not only in professions seen as dangerous, like law enforcement or firefighting--those killed are also mechanics, store clerks, bus drivers, and landscapers. Earlier this month, a 38-year-old construction worker was killed in the southern Los Angeles area when a garage collapsed on him while he worked on a remodeling project. International numbers are even more staggering. Despite vast underreporting, it is estimated that more than 2 million workers die each year of work-related accidents and diseases world-wide. That means that more people are killed due to workplace injuries and illnesses than are killed in war. “Workers’ Memorial Day is a reminder that each death is a life cut short - a worker who left behind a family and friends,” continued Sánchez. “I encourage everyone to take a moment to recognize the needless sacrifice that they and their families made this year and in years past. Workers' Memorial Day is a reminder that we can do better.” Rep. Sánchez also co-sponsored the Corporate Injury, Illness, and Fatality Reporting Act of 2009 (H.R. 2113), which would require large multi-site companies to regularly report to the Department of Labor on workplace safety, health, and on the numbers and rates of work-related deaths, injuries, and illnesses at all of their worksites. Currently, the DOL gets this information largely from individual establishments, but never has the full picture of the entire corporate structure of a company. This bill would for the first time mandate that all injuries are reported.
04.28.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement after a meeting with President Barack Obama and other progressive House members at the White House today: “Unlike his predecessor, President Obama has reached out to hear the concerns and priorities of members on any issue - whether he agrees or not - which is a refreshing approach. Hopes are better than ever for moving forward with legislation to create accessible, affordable, high quality healthcare this year. “I conveyed to the President that I have strong concerns about our healthcare “system,” which is one of the most expensive in the world, yet performs poorly and leaves out millions who can’t afford it. Working families shouldn’t have to choose between putting food on the table and taking their children to the doctor. “The President pledged to work with us and asked for our support on healthcare reform, a high priority for him.”
04.27.2009	Calls threats to close the border unrealistic Washington DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez today posted information about the swine flu epidemic on her website and urged her constituents to get factual and updated information before becoming alarmed. “With the news of a public health emergency on swine flu, it is important for people to get updated and factual information,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This is a cause for concern that requires everyone to take awareness, but not a cause for panic.” The United States declared a public health emergency due to 40 confirmed cases of swine flu in California, Texas, Ohio, New York and Kansas as well as numerous cases in Mexico. According to health officials, seven people in California have been diagnosed with this form of swine flu. Swine influenza is a respiratory disease of pigs. Swine flu does not normally infect humans although sporadic human infections do occasionally occur. The symptoms of swine flu in people are similar to the symptoms of regular seasonal flu and include fever, lethargy, lack of appetite and coughing. Some people with swine flu also have reported runny nose, sore throat, nausea, muscle aches, vomiting and diarrhea. In response to calls for closing the border to Mexico, Sánchez added, “Closing the border does not make any sense. Not only is it complicated, but would cost the United States millions of dollars in trade and commerce. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has made it clear that closing the border would only be an option if it were realistic hope of containment, which is certainly not the case. Calls for closing the border are clearly unrealistic and may unnecessarily inflame the immigration debate.” For more information on swine flu, please visit Rep. Sánchez website at: https://lindasanchez.house.gov/index.php/home or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website at: https://www.cdc.gov/h1n1flu/. USA Today has an informative article today with questions and answers you may have about swine flu. Here are a few: Q: What is swine flu? A: It's a common respiratory disease in pigs that doesn't usually spread to people. When pigs catch this flu, many get quite sick, and 1% to 4% die, according to the World Health Organization. In the past, people have sometimes caught swine flu if they worked directly with pigs. Q: Can you catch swine flu from eating pork? A: No, according to WHO. Pigs coming in to slaughter facilities are monitored for flu symptoms, and those that are ill are not allowed to enter the food supply. Cooking also kills the virus. People who work with pigs, however, can catch the virus. The Department of Agriculture is conducting tests to confirm that the food supply is safe, said Janet Napolitano, secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. Q: Is there a vaccine against swine flu? A: No, but government scientists could try to create one, according to the CDC. "We've identified the virus," Besser said. "Should we decide to manufacture a vaccine, we can work toward that goal very quickly." CDC scientists don't know if this year's flu vaccine offers any protection. Q: What are the symptoms? A: The most common symptoms are fever, fatigue, lack of appetite and coughing, although some people also develop a runny nose, sore throat, vomiting or diarrhea, according to the CDC. Q: What should you do if you have these symptoms? A: Stay home from work or school, to avoid spreading your illness to other people, Besser said. Don't get on an airplane. People should call their doctors to ask about the best treatment, but should not simply show up at a clinic or hospital that is unprepared for their arrival. Q: How can people protect themselves? A: As always, people should wash their hands frequently, Besser said. In the past, the CDC has said there isn't conclusive evidence to support using face masks. Surgical masks are designed to prevent the wearer from spreading germs, but may also catch large respiratory droplets if someone sneezes nearby. In a 2007 statement, the CDC said these masks could be worn if someone needs to go to a crowded place, such as a grocery store, for a short time. N95 respirator masks filter out 95% of particles to prevent the wearer from breathing them in. These must be fitted properly around the nose to create a seal, so they can make breathing difficult. Q: What does it mean for the government to declare a public health emergency? A: While the declaration "sounds more severe than it is," Napolitano said Sunday, it will free up funds and allow health officials to use medications and tests that aren't normally used. The government also issued a public health declaration during recent floods in North Dakota and Minnesota, she said, and noted that the government often issues such declarations when hurricanes are approaching. The federal government is also releasing 25% of the 50 million doses of antiviral medications in the nation's Strategic National Stockpile, Napolitano said. The Department of Defense is also making 7 million doses available. For entire article, visit: https://www.usatoday.com/news/health/2009-04-26-swine-flu-questions-answers_N.htm%20
04.23.2009	Washington, DC - Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39), Jared Polis (CO-2), and Mary Jo Kilroy (OH-15) introduced the Pathways Advancing Career Training Act, which would help unemployed and underemployed women train for and thrive in family-supporting work. The PACT Act would provide assistance to states for training programs that prepare women for employment in high-wage, high-skill fields where they are often underrepresented. DeLauro’s bill would support programs that address barriers to employment for single parents, displaced homemakers, and divorced and widowed women re-entering the workforce after extended periods of time at home caring for family members. “With 60% of working women earning half or more of their families’ incomes, the economic crisis has demonstrated the importance of women’s work to the U.S. economy. Yet many of these women remain in low-paying jobs with little chance of advancement,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). “The Pathways Advancing Career Training (PACT) Act focuses on families hit hardest by the recession by helping unemployed and underemployed women train for and thrive in family-supporting work while helping to build the highly-skilled, diverse workforce that is critical to our continued competitiveness and getting our economy back on track.” “When we lend a hand to women in the workforce, we lift up an entire family,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA). "The Pathways and Advancing Career Training Act ensures that more women are prepared to enter the high-wage, high-skill fields where they can break down the barriers that keep women-headed households in poverty. This is a common-sense solution to a competitive labor market in trying economic times.” “Promoting gender equity in high-growth occupations is good for women, it is good for working families, and it is good for our economy,” said Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) who sits on the House Education and Labor Committee. “Even in these times of high unemployment, American industries are facing skilled-labor shortages, which will only increase when the economy picks up again. By providing comprehensive job training to single mothers and unemployed women, the PATH Act provides a much-needed boost to businesses and working families suffering from the recession, while helping to diversify the American workplace.” “Increasing the number of women helping to shape our high tech future will be critical to our efforts to create jobs that pay well and create a stronger middle class. As a working mom, I know how challenging it can be to raise a family and advance a career. Everything we can do to remove the barriers to women’s success in the workplace we should and this legislation will be a good start,” said Congresswoman Kilroy (OH-15). At current rates, the U.S. will require 15 million workers with postsecondary training in the next two decades, but will add just 3 million workers with this level of training. Moving women into the pipeline for high-wage, high-skill jobs will boost their earnings by as much as 20 or 30 percent, while providing employers with the skilled workforce they need to compete globally. By targeting a relatively untapped section of the current and potential workforce, this legislation provides a common-sense solution to address the looming skilled labor shortage. PACT supports the holistic delivery of specialized services often unavailable under our current job training system, from self-sufficiency planning to personal counseling to child care and other support. Modeled on successful programs like “Hard Hatted Women” in Ohio, where more than half of graduates double or even triple their earnings, the PACT Act promises to boost economic security for families across the nation. Specifically, the PACT Act would provide: o Funding to states for training programs that prepare individuals for employment in high-wage, high-skill fields where they are often underrepresented. o Funding to states to develop and support programs that address barriers to employment for single parents, displaced homemakers, and victims of domestic violence o Flexibility for states in the design and implementation of programs to meet the needs of local labor markets. o Coordinated performance accountability measures.
04.22.2009	Sánchez, who represents the 39th District, Marks the 39th Earth Day Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, who represents the 39th District of California, hosted “Walk to Work with Linda” today to commemorate the 39th Earth Day.” Friends and congressional staffers joined Rep. Sánchez on her walk to Capitol Hill and discussed environmental issues and impact. The first Earth Day, which was celebrated in 1970, brought together millions of people from around the country to demand a safer, cleaner and healthier world. “Earth Day is not just a day for celebration, but a reminder that we can all do more to protect our environment,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I am proud to be a part of projects to help 'green' our region and our nation. Whether it is walking or taking mass transit to work, weatherizing your home, or buying energy efficient appliances and light bulbs, everyone can contribute.” In Congress, Sánchez has been working on environmental legislation and “green” initiatives including: * Expanding the Youth Environment Employment Program. The Los Angeles and Long Beach Conservation Corps programs employ local youth in summer and year-round construction of nature parks and playgrounds. * Greening local road projects. The Congresswoman secured federal funds for the reconstruction of Paramount Blvd in Lakewood, which includes bio-retention tree wells to clean stormwater runoff before it enters the Los Angeles River. Rep. Sánchez also secured funding for the reconstruction of Whittier Blvd., which will include an innovative, mile-long parkway bio-swale that will clean stormwater runoff and provide a pedestrian walkway. * Creating “pocket parks.” Rep. Sánchez secured $142,000 in funding for the creation of these small parks in Lynwood. * Protecting our oceans. Rep. Sánchez has secured more than $1 million for the Los Angeles County Basin Watershed Water Supply Augmentation Study. This investment will fund the construction of a pilot program in Los Angeles County to demonstrate how small changes in local construction can yield significant environmental improvements in quality of drinking water and the prevention of ocean pollution from run-off in Southern California. * Investing in drinking-water quality. In March 2009, Congresswoman Sánchez voted to help pass the Water Quality Investment Act, which makes key investments to improve water quality and better ensure safe, clean water for all Americans while potentially creating hundreds of thousands of jobs over the next five years. Sections of the bill are especially critical to efforts preventing future contamination from sewer overflows and other pollutants. * Supporting renewable energy and energy efficiency. Congresswoman Sánchez voted for President Obama’s Budget which increases investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency by 18 percent. This investment will promote clean energy, industry and jobs. Rep. Sánchez also voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which includes over $61 billion slated for energy investments, including training for green-collar jobs, research to produce better electric vehicles and loans for renewable energy and “smart” electricity transmission technologies. * Creating wilderness areas. Congresswoman Sánchez voted to pass the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act which creates more than 2 million new acres of wilderness, including almost 700,000 acres in California.
04.16.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) issued the following statement after learning of the tragic shooting today at Long Beach Memorial Hospital. “I was shocked and deeply saddened to learn about the act of incomprehensible violence in Long Beach today. I offer my deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of those who lost their lives today. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, their families and the people of Long Beach as they cope with the aftermath of this horrific tragedy and senseless gun violence, which has destroyed the lives of innocent victims. We don’t yet know all the facts, but my office is monitoring the situation.”
04.02.2009	Sánchez has fought for legislation to increase the number of school counselors, school social workers and school psychologists in low-income schools Washington, DC - Members of the National Association of School Psychologists today presented Rep. Linda Sánchez with the “Government and Professional Relations Special Friend of Children Award” for her leadership on legislation positively affecting the lives of children, including the Increased Student Achievement through Increased Student Support Act. “It is truly an honor to receive this award,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “For years, I have fought to ensure that students receive the support they need to succeed in school because I know that teachers cannot do the job alone. By recognizing the social, emotional and behavioral needs of students, we can help them to live up to their full potential.” The Government and Professional Relations Special Friend of Children Award is given to an individual or group outside of the profession that supports political action and advocacy on behalf of children in order to improve education and mental health services for children, youth, and their families. “The selection committee was impressed with Congresswoman Sánchez’ awareness of the importance of student support personnel in assisting students at risk and how the work of school psychologists, social workers and counselors helps students overcome barriers to learning,” said Stacy Skalski, Director of Public Policy at the National Association of School Psychologists. “We applaud Congresswoman Sánchez’ commitment to supporting children and at-risk youth and their families. Rep. Sánchez’ legislation, the Increased Student Achievement through Increased Student Support Act, H.R. 1361, would increase the number of school counselors, social workers and psychologists in qualified schools in low-income communities.
04.02.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Linda Sánchez voted in favor of the President’s budget and the House budget resolution today that serves as a long term economic plan that will get our economy working again. “It is a sight for sore eyes to see the President present an honest budget, putting an end to years of masking the costs of things we have to pay for, like the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. The House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2010 budget resolution (H. Con. Res. 85) today which makes important investments to strengthen our economy and our country while getting the budget on a path toward fiscal responsibility. Building on the progress of the Recovery Act, the budget is an economic blueprint for the future -- including strategic investments in health care reform, education, and energy independence. “This is good news for working and middle-class families who have been struggling to keep their heads above water,” continued Sánchez. “For far too long, these families have been bearing the brunt of misplaced priorities, above all, the ever-rising cost of healthcare. The House-passed long term economic plan will cut the deficit nearly two-thirds by 2013. It cuts taxes for middle class families by $1.5 trillion. It will create jobs and grow our economy with targeted investments and reforms in health care, clean energy and education while reducing non-defense discretionary spending to its lowest level in nearly half a century. This long term economic plan ushers in a new era of honesty in budgeting by fully accounting for known expenses like the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that previous administrations left out in order to make the deficit look smaller. To bring change and restore integrity to Washington, this budget puts an unprecedented effort on rooting out waste, fraud and abuse in government spending. In their proposed budget Republicans offered nothing but the failed policies of the last eight years - the same policies that created this economic crisis. “It is shameful that while the United States spends more than every other nation in the world on health care, we fail to care for everyone. This budget makes a down payment on health care reform, invests in working families, and sets America on a fundamentally new course.”
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Linda Sánchez released the following statement today in honor of the 82nd anniversary of Cesar Chávez’ birthday on March 31st: “Today we stop to remember César Chávez, a pioneer of the labor movement in the immigrant community. His work organizing immigrant and minority farm workers to fight courageously for their right to fair pay, fair benefits and fair working conditions, has taught us responsibility and respectability. “When I was growing up, I remember my brothers and sisters and I begging our mother to buy us grapes. However, she refused to buy them out of support for the grape pickers strike that was lead by Chávez’ United Farm Workers Union. Because of her small action, and the small actions of Americans across the country, the United Farm Workers ultimately won its first collective bargaining agreement with growers. “As we celebrate César Chávez Day today, I am proud to be a supporter of Congressional legislation that will make it easier for employees to unionize. The Employee Free Choice Act is a testament to the legacy of Chávez’ work. “We know that when workers come together and stand up for what is right, they can do powerful things. Now Congress should come together and do a powerful thing for workers by passing the Employee Free Choice Act.”
03.26.2009	Funding to Support Jobs, Cut Energy Bills, and Increase Energy Independence Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez today commended the Obama Administration’s plan to invest $3.2 billion in energy efficiency and conservation projects in U.S. cities, including over $350,000,000 in southern California. “These investments represent part of the reason I worked hard to help pass the Recovery and Reinvestment Act,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “These are genuine solutions that will strengthen our economy and create jobs at the local level.” The Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program, funded by President Obama’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will provide formula grants for projects that reduce total energy use and fossil fuel emissions, and improve energy efficiency nationwide. “I am pleased that the City of Cerritos plans to use funds to install new energy systems for the very popular Cerritos Indoor Swim and Fitness Center, which will save an estimated $75,000 a year in energy costs,” continued Sánchez. Cities and counties will receive nearly $1.9 billion under the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program, and states and territories will receive nearly $770 million. States will receive and administer funds for those counties and cities that are not large enough to qualify for direct DOE funding. “It is great to see cities like Whittier preparing to use these funds to save energy by replacing street lights and parking lot lights with energy efficient LED lights,” remarked Sánchez. More information on the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Program is available on https://apps1.eere.energy.gov/wip/block_grants.cfm.
03.24.2009	Sánchez Resolution declares March 30, 2009 “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Washington, DC - A resolution introduced by Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) passed the U.S. House of Representatives today that will provide long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans for their dedicated service to our country. H.Res. 234 designates March 30, 2009, as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” “With this legislation, we can help provide Vietnam veterans the heroes’ welcome they deserve, but that too many never received,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “While today’s resolution may seem like a small gesture-and when compared to what our soldiers and their families sacrificed, it certainly is-it will serve to remind us of their service to our country.” In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today, Rep. Sánchez urged her colleagues to support this important piece of legislation. To view Rep. Sánchez’ speech visit: www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez. Rep. Sánchez began her work to honor Vietnam veterans in 2003, following a meeting with her constituent Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA, who had worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. Since then “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” has received broad bipartisan support by the House of Representatives after Rep. Sánchez introduced it in the 108th, 109th, and 110th Congresses. “As an Army Combat Medic in Vietnam, Jose Ramos was victim to the indifferent and often hostile public reaction upon returning home,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It was his personal experiences, and those of his fellow GIs, that motivated him to work toward establishing a national day of recognition. His work inspired many, including me, to help give Vietnam veterans their long overdue ‘welcome home.’” Rep. Linda Sánchez will attend a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Event in her district this weekend to help honor and recognize local Vietnam veterans. This year, the event will take place Sunday, March 29 in Whittier, CA at the California High School Stadium on 9800 Mills Ave, from 11:00am-6:00pm. For more information on this event, please call Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ district office at 562-860-5050.
03.23.2009	Lakewood, CA - Rep. Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, urged Californians to take full advantage of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) on a conference call today with local reporters and IRS Director Julie Garcia. Rep. Sánchez and Ms. Garcia highlighted EITC and the availability of free tax assistance locations available to members of the community. “With tax season underway, I want to make sure those who are eligible apply for their EITC benefits,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Too many low-income, and not so low-income, working families are missing out on hundreds, even thousands of dollars each year simply because they don’t file for the EITC and don’t collect the full amount of the tax refund they earned.” Every year, millions of workers are eligible for, but fail to claim, their EITC, a federal tax credit designed for low-income wage earners. Those who qualify for the EITC could pay less in taxes, pay no tax at all, or even get a tax refund. The IRS estimates that 20 to 25 percent of EITC-eligible workers, or 5-7 million people, fail to claim this tax benefit each year. EITC amounts vary from $438 to $4,824, with an average EITC of $2,000. “An estimated 10,000 people in the Long Beach area who are eligible for the EITC don’t file for it, and are losing out on this credit,” continued Congresswoman Sánchez. “If everyone in our part of southeast L.A. County eligible for the credit actually filed for it, it would mean over $20 million in extra income for working families. This is money that could help with gas, groceries, or education. More money in your pocket means more money to stimulate local businesses that keep our local economy going and jobs in place.” Families earning up to $41,646 in 2008 will qualify for the EITC, depending on their number of children and their filing status. Single workers and those without children are also eligible. Workers who don’t owe taxes or who aren’t required to file a tax return are also eligible but they must file a federal return and fill out EIC questions to receive the credit. “The Earned Income Tax Credit can be a boost for working families,” said Julie Garcia, Director of Stakeholder Partnerships, Education &amp; Communication (SPEC). “At the IRS, we want all eligible taxpayers to claim this benefit. My thanks go to Congresswoman Sánchez and the southern California volunteers for all their hard work and support of this program.” For more information on the EITC or a list of free tax assistance locations, please visit Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ website: www.lindasanchez.house.gov. Information about EITC eligibility requirements can also be found at www.irs.gov.
03.19.2009	Career Event for Youth Provides Job Opportunities and “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Honors Local Veterans Whittier - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) welcomes constituents to attend two free events the weekend of March 28-29, 2009 in Whittier, CA. On Saturday, March 28, she will host a public forum on job opportunities for youth, “Hands-On Careers for Creative Minds,” to help connect constituents with new employment opportunities. On Sunday, March 29, Sánchez will attend a “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day," a tribute to honor the many Vietnam veterans who returned to the United States in the 1960’s and 1970’s without a formal “thank you” or “welcome home” as has traditionally been given to returning service members in our nation. Saturday, March 28, 2009 WHAT: “Hands-On Careers for Creative Minds” - A Youth Jobs Forum Presentations will be made by public job training agencies, trade unions, businesses, and community colleges with opportunities for a successful, well-paying career. WHEN: Saturday, March 28, 2009 9:00AM - 1:00PM WHERE: Whittier High School 12417 E. Philadelphia Street Whittier, CA “When we lend a hand to our young people, families do better, communities have lower crime rates, and we all have a more secure economic future,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Under current economic conditions, planning one’s education and career after high school can seem like a daunting task. That’s why I am committed to helping today’s youth take advantage of the many different employment opportunities available in our area.” Sunday, March 29, 2009 WHAT: Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Celebration The free event will feature live music, tributes, a military vehicle show, and fun for the entire family. WHEN: Sunday, March 29, 2009 11:00AM - 6:00PM WHERE: California High School Stadium 9800 Mills Ave Whittier, CA “This celebration is just one small way we can help acknowledge Vietnam veterans and give them the heroes’ welcome they deserve, but that too many never received,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Our duty as citizens and representatives is to thank and remember those who have served our country.” Rep. Linda Sánchez introduced legislation in Congress to provide long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans for their dedicated service to our country by designating March 30, 2009 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” For more information on these events, please contact Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ district office at 562-860-5050.
03.19.2009	Washington DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, voted with a majority of her colleagues on both sides of the aisle today to pass legislation to levy punishing taxes on big employee bonuses at AIG and other firms bailed out by taxpayers. Sánchez issued the following statement: “It is outrageous that taxpayers should foot the bill for executive bonuses when it is their own risky behavior that put us in this mess in the first place,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “By passing this legislation, we are showing AIG and other companies receiving taxpayer funds that we mean business when we say that tax dollars are not to be used to enrich company executives.” “It makes no sense for every taxpayer in the country, including those who are unemployed, in foreclosure, or who can't afford healthcare, to pay for bonuses that went to the very people whose poor judgment and greed fed this financial disaster,” continued Sánchez. “A system where it's lose-lose for the working class and win-win for the irresponsible is flat out backwards.” With a vote of 328-93, H.R. 1586 would tax the bonuses of highly paid individuals at a rate of 90 percent if their employer received more than five billion dollars in Federal assistance under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). The legislation only applies to individuals whose total family income exceeds $250,000 per year (adjusted gross income). It affects bonuses received after January 1, 2009 and would cover companies receiving more than three-fourths of financial rescue funds already distributed.
03.18.2009	Washington, DC - As part of her continuing efforts to provide students with safe schools, Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), along with Vernon J. Ehlers (R-MI), introduced the “Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act” in Congress today. The bill would allow schools to use existing federal funding specifically for bullying and gang prevention programs. “Bullying and harassment are problems that will only get bigger if we don’t put a stop to it,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Three-quarters of all school shooting incidents have been linked to bullying and harassment, and victims of bullying and harassment are more likely to be depressed or suicidal. This is a need we can address to help keep our kids safe and in school.” Research has shown that bullying and harassment are serious problems that impede students’ academic progress and overall mental health. Nearly one-third of all students are bullied at least once a month and one out of every ten high school drop-outs left school because of repeated bullying. Fortunately, studies have also shown that comprehensive, school-wide programs designed to change norms for behavior can significantly reduce bullying and gang activity. The “Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act” would help schools become safer by ensuring they can use federal funds for such programs, including school-based counseling and referral services, emergency intervention programs, and telephone hotlines for the victims of bullies and gangs. Safer schools will help increase student attendance and academic achievement. “Bullying is not just harmless horseplay among kids, but a serious problem in many schools in the country,” said Rep. Ehlers. “Bullying distracts from students’ education and can lead to future violence if school officials and parents do not intervene. This bill will give schools the tools to identify bullying and gang problems, and provide emergency intervention programs so schools can intervene before someone is seriously hurt or killed. It also will provide counseling and help to victims so they are less likely to retaliate with violence or turn to gangs for protection.” Currently, the Safe and Drug Free Schools and Communities Act (SDFSCA), which is a part of the No Child Left Behind Act intended to prevent school violence, does not mention bullying or harassment, and contains only a few fleeting references to gang violence. Reps. Ehlers and Sánchez’ bill would amend SDFSCA to allow schools to use funding they receive from SDFSCA to implement comprehensive programs to prevent bullying, harassment, and gang activity. The “Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act” is a part of Rep. Sánchez’ “Safe Kids Agenda,” a set of legislation designed to keep children safe inside and outside of school. The Safe Kids Agenda also includes the "Increased Student Achievement through Increased Student Support Act," introduced with Reps. Edolphus Towns and Jared Polis, and two other pieces of legislation, the Safe Schools Improvement Act and the Cyberbullying Prevention Act, that Sánchez will be introducing soon.
03.05.2009	Bill would increase the number of school counselors, social workers and school psychologists in low-income schools Washington, DC - Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-39) introduced education legislation in Congress today to increase the number of school counselors, school social workers and school psychologists in qualified schools in low-income communities. The Increased Student Achievement Through Increased Student Support Act, will authorize grant funding to form partnerships between higher education institutions that train these student support professionals and Local Educational Agencies (school districts) that serve low-income student populations. The legislation also creates a student loan forgiveness program for individuals who have served five or more consecutive school years as school counselors, school social workers, or school psychologists in similarly qualified low-income schools. “Students require support in many ways, not just those directed at improving test scores,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Oftentimes teachers and staff struggle to meet not only the academic needs of their students, but their social, emotional and behavioral needs as well. School counselors, psychologists, and social workers play an indispensible role in helping students achieve a bright future and should be available to all students, regardless of income.” The legislation, which Sánchez is working to include as part of the No Child Left Behind, has been endorsed by over 20 education and mental health organizations, including the American School Counselor Association, the American Counseling Association, the School Social Work Association of America and the National Association of School Psychologists. A joint statement released by these four organizations stated, “Increasing the achievement of students from low-income homes is critical to our nation, but schools must have the proper support systems in place to ensure that teachers are not alone in this effort. This legislation provides an opportunity for schools to access the appropriately trained school-employed mental health professionals necessary to ensure that students who need the most help receive it in a timely, focused manner.” Rep. Edolphus “Ed” Towns (D-NY) and Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) introduced this legislation with Rep. Sánchez (D-CA) in the U.S. House of Representatives. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-AR) and Thad Cochran (R-MS).
03.04.2009	Legislation would reverse Bush Administration decision that limited states’ and localities’ options to seek reimbursement Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) Reimbursement Protection Act today, which would help states and localities to be reimbursed for some of the costs of incarcerating individuals who are here illegally and who are either charged with or convicted of a felony or two or more misdemeanors. “States and counties shouldn’t have to bear the burden of housing criminal aliens, when it has previously been the responsibility of the federal government,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “This bill will help offset the costs that states endure to detain these suspects and criminals so they aren’t forced to release detainees early--or make cuts in other public safety services--just because they can't afford to keep them in custody.” Under the Bush Administration, the Department of Justice limited SCAAP payments, stipulating that states and localities can only be reimbursed for the cost of incarcerating a criminal alien if the individual is both charged with and convicted of a crime in the same year, but overlooked costs associated with the time before the actual conviction. This has made many of the costs associated with pre-trial detention ineligible for reimbursement. Rep. Sánchez, who introduced the same legislation in the 110th Congress, commented, “In my home state of California, which already has overcrowded prisons, the failures in the Bush Administration's border policy has made the budget even tighter. During these tough economic times, and in light of California’s budget deficit, it’s time to fix this problem.” The legislation is a result of conversations between Rep. Sánchez, law enforcement agencies, and their officers on how to fix this problem. Without this legislation, state and local budgets would be overwhelmed by costs that should be the federal government’s responsibility.
03.04.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) issued the following statement after an agreement was reached today between the former Bush Administration and House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers, Jr., in which Karl Rove and former White House Counsel Harriet Miers will testify on matters related to the dismissal and retention of U.S. Attorneys. “It’s about time that Karl Rove understands that he is not above the law and must obey a subpoena just like any other American is required to do,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Months ago, the subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law faced an empty chair instead of Mr. Rove, and we have been waiting ever since to question him about his role in the firing of U.S. Attorneys under the Bush Administration.” Rep. Sánchez’ role as a leader in the investigation of the politicization of the Department of Justice was highlighted in 2008 when, as Chair of the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), she ruled to invalidate President Bush’s claims of immunity and executive privilege. Since then, Rep. Sanchez has publicly recommended many times that Karl Rove be held in contempt of Congress after failing to abide by a congressional subpoena and appear in front of the Committee. Rove and Miers will testify before the House Judiciary Committee in transcribed depositions under penalty of perjury, and the Committee reserves the right to have public testimony from Rove and Miers.
03.03.2009	Resolution declares March 30, 2009 “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced legislation today to provide long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans for their dedicated service to our country by designating March 30, 2009 as “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day.” March 30 is intended to recognize the day when the last U.S. combat troops completed their service and left Vietnam. “With this legislation, we can help provide Vietnam veterans the heroes’ welcome they deserve, but that too many never received,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I have introduced this resolution every Congress since I was elected, and I will continue to do so every year to come. Our duty as citizens and representatives is to serve and remember those who have served our country.” Rep. Sánchez began her work to honor Vietnam veterans in 2003, following a meeting with her constituent Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier, CA who had worked tirelessly to recognize his fellow veterans. Since then “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” has received broad bipartisan support by the House of Representatives after Rep. Sánchez introduced it in the 108th, 109th, and 110th Congresses. “This day of recognition came about because of the work and determination of one unwavering veteran,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Jose Ramos’ belief and dedication to honor other Vietnam veterans has spread across the entire country and millions have been touched by his work.” Rep. Linda Sánchez hosts a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day Celebration event in her district to help honor and recognize the many Vietnam veterans who returned to the United States in the 1960’s and 1970’s without a formal “thank you” or “welcome home” as has traditionally been given to returning service members in our nation. This year, the event will take place Sunday, March 29 in Whittier, CA at the California High School Football Field from 11:00am-6:00pm. For more information on this event, please call Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ district office at 562-860-5050.
02.27.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced legislation that will protect the elderly and their families from being forced to accept mandatory arbitration clauses when they enter into contracts for nursing home care. The Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act will make pre-dispute, mandatory, binding arbitration clauses in contracts between long-term care facilities and their residents unenforceable. This legislation will not prohibit arbitration, but will simply ensure that nursing home residents have the choice whether to arbitrate a dispute after it has arisen. “During the time I chaired the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, I held four hearings on arbitration matters,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I was both shocked and heartbroken when I heard the testimony of witnesses including one whose 92-year old mother sustained a broken leg and inadequate care while living in a nursing home. The family felt voiceless and powerless because of a contract that had an arbitration clause in the fine print.” The longterm care industry is one stark example where businesses draft “take-it-or-leave-it” admission agreements for prospective residents that include pre-dispute mandatory arbitration clauses. For families who are unable to provide adequate care in the home setting, the need for an immediate placement for their loved one makes the “take-it-or-leave-it” choice, no choice at all. “Arbitration agreements are often buried in overly complicated contracts, and many consumers do not realize they are waiving their legal options,” continued Sánchez. “We have to protect families and seniors, and that includes giving them the tools they need to protect their full legal rights.” While arbitration can be an economical and efficient alternative to settling a dispute in court, it can also limit the types of evidence that can be presented and the type of remedies that can be imposed for wrong doing. With this legislation, families can have the option to choose to arbitrate once they know the facts, rather than be forced into a one-sided agreement.
02.27.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced that she has secured initial support for over $4 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Los Angeles County area. These investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives this week. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “This is terrific news for the region,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These federal dollars will go a long way to improve our communities.” These investments include: * $125,000 for the Southeast L.A. County Workforce Investment Board - These funds will support an employment and training program to ensure that foster youth have the necessary skills to succeed in the workplace and in their personal lives when they “age out” of the foster care system. * $190,000 for Alzheimer's Disease Education and Outreach - These funds will identify seniors and families living with Alzheimer’s disease. The project will educate and provide families with culturally and linguistically appropriate information and support services through the Alzheimer’s Association and community partners in southern Los Angeles County. “These are smart investments in our communities that need them most,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I'm so pleased to be able to secure funding for these programs that use taxpayer dollars wisely on in these tough economic times.”
02.27.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced that she has secured initial support for over $4 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Florence-Firestone area. These investments include $165,000 for the Century Youth Activity Center in Florence-Firestone, the local chapter of the Los Angeles-area Sheriff’s Youth Activity League, which provides a safe haven for local youth and positive interaction with role models and mentors. In this area of especially great need, this project will provide at-risk youth with after-school tutoring, computer skills training, fine arts education, team sports, and nutrition programs. “This is great news for Florence-Firestone,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am happy to work hard to get funds that provide a wide variety of opportunities for our youth.” These federal funds were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives this week. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law.
02.26.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA), a co-sponsor of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today to urge her colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support homeowners and neighborhoods by supporting this legislation. “For too many, the American Dream of owning a home has quickly eroded into a nightmare,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “The mortgage bankruptcy and loan modification provisions in the Helping Families Save Their Home Act will provide direct help to real American families.” The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (H.R. 1106), makes a straightforward change to the law to give homeowners filing for bankruptcy the opportunity to restructure their loans so that they can save their homes from foreclosure just as they can with virtually any other asset, including vacation homes, family farms, and boats. Specifically, the bill would empower bankruptcy judges to modify mortgage terms to help homeowners stay in their homes. “Southern California has been particularly hit hard by foreclosures,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “It is fundamentally unfair that the current bankruptcy code allows for modification for everything from second homes to yachts and private jets, yet not for a debtor’s first home. In order to get our economy on the path to recovery, we must strengthen our communities by stabilizing the home mortgage market." In an effort to help the millions of households facing possible foreclosure, the bill includes key incentives to encourage lenders to negotiate affordable mortgages for homeowners who are underwater, at risk of foreclosure, and those nearing bankruptcy. It is expected that the House will complete consideration of the bill next week. A video of Rep. Linda Sánchez’ speech can be viewed at: https://www.youtube.com/user/LindaTSanchez
02.25.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced today that she has secured initial support for over $4 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Long Beach and Cerritos area. These investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “Investment in our communities will promote economic growth and increase opportunities for our students,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I will fight tooth-and-nail to see these funds through the appropriations process in Washington to make sure they get to our communities in California.” These investments include: * $190,000 for Clean Air Buses in Cerritos - These funds will expand and upgrade the Cerritos on Wheels bus fleet. The clean air buses will serve the needs of seniors, students, and the community while minimizing traffic and pollution. * $350,000 for upgrades to the Cerritos Sheriff’s Office Station’s 911 system and other computer and communications systems - These enhancements will improve law enforcement response time, emergency preparedness, and communications with the public. * $380,600 to “green” a new 247-unit senior housing project in Cerritos - These funds will pay for a solar-paneled roof and other features to reduce energy costs and the carbon footprint of the new housing project. * $238,000 for Cerritos College Project HOPE - The program is designed to increase the number of Latinos and disadvantaged students entering, matriculating, and completing health related certificates, transfer majors, and professional degrees. These funds will help provide academic tutoring to health science college students in math and science, as well as workshops on higher education and financial aid, with the goal of increasing college completion. * $475,000 for Traffic Signals in Lakewood - Funds will upgrade aging traffic signals along major traffic corridors in Lakewood, which will improve the safety and efficiency of traffic flow in this suburban area close to the Port of Long Beach. * $238,000 for the St. Francis Career College at St. Francis Hospital - Funds will go toward a nurse training program in Lynwood to help train 45 Nurse Assistants and 45 Vocational Nurses and upgrade educational equipment and technology at St. Francis Career College. * $142,500 for Ramona Park Improvements in Long Beach - These funds will be used to help renovate 50 year-old restrooms and install irrigation, landscaping, and safety lighting for the park. * $950,000 for Hybrid Buses in Long Beach - Congresswoman Sánchez, in conjunction with other Long Beach area Members of Congress, secured federal dollars for Long Beach Transit to purchase capacity clean fuel buses. These new buses will be used to replace existing diesel buses and/or expand service where possible. * 142,500 for Clean Air Buses in Paramount - These funds will help purchase two 20-passenger clean air buses for Paramount’s local bus system, which will include new routes to local community colleges to help more Paramount students access higher education opportunities. “This is a terrific example of Congress’ continued commitment to spend taxpayer dollars wisely in tough economic times,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “These are smart investments in our communities that need them most.”
02.25.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) announced today that she has secured initial support for over $4 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district, including programs in the Whittier area. These investments were included in the Omnibus appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives today. The bill will now proceed to the Senate then be signed by the President to become law. “I am happy to work hard to get funds that help colleges and schools in the Whittier area build better communities,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Investments in colleges like Rio Hondo and Whittier are an investment in the next generation.” These investments include: * $196,514 for Rio Hondo Community College - to train small, local businesses in the region to assess and improve their energy conservation and waste reduction. These funds will allow the College to organize free environmental education workshops and one-on-one audits for small businesses in southeast Los Angeles County to promote workplace environmental stewardship that is also profitable. * $475,750 for Whittier College’s Science and Mathematics Initiative - These funds will expand science and math enrichment education for elementary, middle, and high school teachers and students throughout the Whittier area and help build a new science center at the college, including a portable teaching lab. * $190,000 for Los Nietos School District - Congresswoman Sánchez secured federal funding for i-SAFE, Inc., a non-profit foundation, to provide anti-bullying, internet safety programs and training at Los Nietos School District and other schools throughout southeast Los Angeles County. “This is a terrific example of Congress’ continued commitment to spend taxpayer dollars wisely in tough economic times,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “These are smart investments in our communities that need them most.”
02.24.2009	Washington, DC - Members of Los Tigres del Norte, one of Latin music’s leading creative voices, met with Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today to thank her for her work on the Performance Rights Act. Sánchez is an original co-sponsor of the Performance Rights Act (H.R. 848), bipartisan legislation re-introduced this year to end a provision of U.S. copyright law that allows AM and FM radio stations to earn $16 billion a year in advertising revenue without compensating the artists and musicians whose music they air. Currently, U.S. terrestrial radio stations only compensate songwriters whose works are broadcast. “Every artist and musician -- from the star of the show to the working class performer -- deserves to be paid for their hard work,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I am pleased that high profile artists like Los Tigres del Norte are lending their voices to advocate for closing the loophole and creating fair pay for fair airplay. The United States is one of the few industrialized countries that does not compensate artists and performers for airplay, and this should be changed.” The Grammy-winning Los Tigres del Norte were in Washington D.C., along with many other musicians to support a fair performance right on radio. Los Tigres del Norte are celebrated for their music that tell the stories of the immigrant experience in the U.S. and for supporting non-profit charitable organizations in an effort to further the appreciation and understanding of Latino music, culture and history.
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) voted today for a House Resolution recognizing the significance of Black History Month. The House passed the resolution unanimously. The Congresswoman released the following statement following the passage of the resolution: “All Americans should know not only the contributions of civil rights heroes like Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks who were champions in the cause of equal rights, but also great scientists, authors and inventors like Benjamin Banneker, Maya Angelou, and Garrett Morgan. All Americans should know the history of how blacks were brought to Jamestown and how a black man, Crispus Attucks, was one of the first Americans killed in the revolution at the Boston Massacre. “Our vote, as we prepare to hear President Barack Obama’s first address to Congress, is a reminder that we are living history today and that we should honor the trailblazers who paved our way. We would not be where we are today without the integral contributions of African Americans not only in political life, but across all fields. “With this vote, we honor organizations like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), which this year celebrates its centennial. Countless Americans have fought in civil courtrooms, and in the court of public opinion, for the right to be treated fairly. We salute and honor their efforts. “Even as we celebrate Black History Month, we know that the cause of equal rights is not finished. As we move forward, we should rededicate ourselves to shaping a world which recognizes our fundamental equality and honors all our contributions.”
02.23.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today announced the addition of Meghan Johnson to serve as Chief of Staff to her congressional office. “I am very pleased to have Meghan join Team Sánchez,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “She brings with her skill, passion and diligence that will serve my office and constituents of the 39th district well.” Johnson joins Sánchez’ office from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) where she served as a Senior Advisor, focusing on political affairs and fundraising strategies for House Democratic Leadership. She also directed finance operations for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s “Pelosi for Congress/PAC to the Future”. “I am honored to serve as Chief of Staff to Congresswoman Linda Sánchez,” Meghan Johnson said. “Congresswoman Sánchez has a clear, vested drive to increase opportunities for working families in her District and implement policies that will work for the people we are so honored to serve.” Prior to her experience at the DCCC, Johnson served as national finance director for Senators Jack Reed (D-RI) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and has extensive campaign experience. She holds a B.A. from Texas Tech University in Political Science with Minors in English and Public Relations. Johnson succeeds Michael Torra, who served as Chief of Staff for over three years before leaving to explore new opportunities.
02.17.2009	Congresswoman hails today’s signing of President Obama’s historic plan to create jobs and boost the economy WASHINGTON, D.C. - Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-39) hailed the signing today of critical legislation to create and save 3.5 million American jobs. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was approved by a vote of 246-183 in the House of Representatives last Friday. President Obama’s job creation package, signed into law today, will rebuild America, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, and transforming our economy for long-term growth; give about 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut; and invest quickly in the economy. “This jobs and recovery plan will create or save nearly 400,000 jobs in California by the end of 2010, according to the White House,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “In my district alone, it’s estimated that over 7,000 jobs will be impacted.” “This Economic Recovery package will be very good for California,” continued Rep. Sánchez. “It creates and saves jobs for working families. From funding for education, to health care and tax reductions, to investments in critical infrastructure, this is just what we need to get and keep people working during these very difficult times.” “America is facing an economic crisis greater than any since the Great Depression, with a staggering 3.6 million American jobs lost in the last 13 months and an unemployment rate here in California that has climbed to over 9 percent,” said Rep. Sánchez. “It is time to turn these statistics around--and I’m so pleased to be able to work with our new President to do that.” In California, this package will deliver immediate, tangible impacts, including: * Creating or saving 396,000 jobs over the next two years. Jobs created will be in a range of industries from clean energy to health care, with over 90% in the private sector. [Source: White House Estimate based on Romer and Bernstein, “The Job Impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan.” January 9, 2009.] * Providing a Making Work Pay tax cut of up to $800 for 12,420,000 workers and their families. The plan will make a down payment on the President’s Making Work Pay tax cut for 95% of workers and their families, designed to pay out immediately into workers’ paychecks. [Source: White House Estimate based on IRS Statistics of Income] * Making 522,000 families eligible for a new American Opportunity Tax Credit to make college more affordable. By creating a new $2,500 partially refundable tax credit for four years of college, this plan will give 3.8 million families nationwide - and 522,000 families in California - new assistance to put college within their reach. [Source: Center on Budget and Policy Priorities analysis of U.S. Census data] * Offering an additional $100 per month in unemployment insurance benefits to 2,395,000 workers in California who have lost their jobs in this recession, and providing extended unemployment benefits to an additional 506,000 laid-off workers. [Source: National Employment Law Project] * Providing funding sufficient to modernize at least 1,208 schools in California so our children have the labs, classrooms and libraries they need to compete in the 21st century economy. [Source: White House Estimate] “The legislation also has unprecedented accountability and transparency measures to help ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and effectively - and a new recovery.gov website allowing Americans to track the investments,” said Rep. Sánchez.
02.17.2009	Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez and 22 other members of the California Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger urging him to exempt Disability Determination Services (DDS) employees of the California Department of Social Services from the statewide furlough. While technically employed by the state, the federal government is responsible for 100 percent of DDS salaries and operating costs. As a result, any money saved by forcing these federally funded employees to take two-day furloughs cannot be used to offset the state’s budget deficit. “Governor Schwarzenegger’s mandatory furlough has cut the income of working families, putting an additional strain on our already weakened economy and affecting employees who aren’t even funded by the state,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “Because obligating DDS employees to observe two days of unpaid leave has no State fiscal impact, I strongly urge the Governor to exempt these employees from the furlough.” The Social Security Administration provides retirement, survivors and disability benefits to a large number of California residents, including $1.1 billion every month in Disability and Supplemental Security Income benefits to over 1.3 million disabled California residents. Disability Determination Service employees are responsible for providing service to the disabled population in California. “Given California’s economic struggles, the Governor’s furlough of DDS employees is especially perplexing because it will only create a delay in case processing time and unnecessarily increase existing claims backlogs without reducing the Governor’s budget deficit,” continued Sánchez. “During these tough economic times, we cannot afford a plan that impedes assistance to the disabled.”
01.27.2009	Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Will Likely be the First Bill Obama Signs into Law Washington, DC - Rep. Linda Sánchez, a co-sponsor of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, voted today to give final approval to legislation that will begin to close the gender pay gap in this country by reversing a Supreme Court decision that has kept women from pursuing pay discrimination claims. The bill now goes to President Obama and will likely be the first major piece of legislation he signs into law. “Pay inequality hurts all Americans, from the kitchen counter to the corporate board room,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, a co-sponsor of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. “Employers can no longer justify paying women less with excuses that date from the 1950’s. When women unfairly receive lower wages, they have a harder time paying for everyday needs like food and healthcare, so their families suffer.” The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would clarify that each discriminatory paycheck or compensation constitutes a violation of the Civil Rights Act. As long as workers file their charges within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, their charges would be considered timely. This was the law prior to the Supreme Court’s May 2007 decision. “This issue is as basic as it gets,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “You should not be paid less because you are a woman. Congress today has reasserted itself, putting its foot down to declare once and for all that Americans should get equal pay for equal work regardless of race, sex, color, national origin, or religion.” The Ledbetter decision has already been cited in hundreds of discrimination cases. Not only have pay discrimination cases been adversely impacted, but protections guaranteed by the Fair Housing Act, Title IX, and the Eighth Amendment have also been affected. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would apply to workers who file claims of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or disability. Lilly Ledbetter worked for nearly 20 years at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. She sued the company after learning that she was paid less then her male counterparts at the facility, despite having more experience than several of them. A jury found that her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her on the basis of sex. However, the Supreme Court said that Ledbetter had waited too long to sue for pay discrimination, despite the fact that she filed a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as soon as she received an anonymous note alerting her to pay discrimination. While Ledbetter filed her charge within 180 days of receiving discriminatory pay, the court ruled that, since Ledbetter did not raise a claim within 180 days of the employer’s decision to pay her less, she could not receive any relief. Under the Ledbetter decision, employers can legally discriminate forever, so long as they keep it secret for the first 180 days, and employees in Ledbetter’s position would be forced to live with discriminatory paychecks for the rest of their careers.
01.22.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Committee member Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), issued the following statement on the Committee's passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (HR-598): “As a new member of the Ways and Means Committee, I am proud to say that we have hit the ground running with an economic stimulus package, known as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Now that the Committee has done its part, we need to move this bill through Congress and get it to President Obama's desk quickly. “This recovery package will provide relief to those who need it most - working families who have lost their jobs and health insurance - and allow them to get back on their feet. Investing in health care, businesses, and education not only strengthens the middle class, but supports vital services that hard working families rely on. “In my home state of California, this stimulus plan will create an estimated 815,990 jobs by the end of 2010. This is a tremendous lift that will get the American economy moving in the short term and make investments for a stronger economy in the long term.” Mark Zandi, the prominent economist with Moody’s Economy.com and former adviser to Sen. John McCain’s presidential campaign, released an analysis of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. He concluded that by 2010, this economic recovery plan will result in 4 million more jobs and an unemployment rate that is 2 percentage points lower than without the plan.
01.15.2009	Washington DC - The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) officially increased it’s membership to twenty-four today, when it welcomed two newly-elected Members of Congress and one returning Member who had previously been part of the CHC. The new Members of the Caucus are Congressman Ben Ray Luján of New Mexico, Congressman Pedro Pierluisi of Puerto Rico, and Congresswoman Linda Sánchez of California. With this addition, the CHC now has twenty-three Members in the House and one in the U.S. Senate. “The growth of the Latino vote in our nation is reflected in the growth of the CHC,” said Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, Chair of the CHC. “I welcome these dynamic individuals to our caucus, and I know that they will help ensure the strength and influence of the Caucus in this new Congress and with the President-elect’s Administration. As Chair, I look forward to working with them to ensure that the CHC continues to be the voice of all Latinos across the country.” Congressman Pedro Pierluisi stated "I am so proud to join my Hispanic colleagues in Congress and look forward to helping them address the matters of common concern to our constituents, our nation's economy, the health and education of our people and the human rights of our immigrants." "I'm honored to join the Hispanic Caucus in the 111th Congress," added Congressman Ben Ray Luján. "I look forward to working with the members of the Caucus to advocate for my constituents in New Mexico. We have many challenges ahead, but by working together with my colleagues on the Congressional Hispanic we solve many of the problems facing our constituents and our country." “With the Latino community making it's voice heard louder than ever in the last election, I look forward to resuming my full membership of the CHC and being part of a team that will advocate for issues important to Latinos and all American families,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez.
01.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC - US Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced a congressional resolution today that will declare Feb. 2-6, 2009 “National School Counseling Week” to honor the important role school counselors play in the lives of students across the country. “School counselors provide a unique contribution by helping students not only reach their academic potential, but also realize personal, social and career growth,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I hope to see National School Counseling Week recognized in my home state of California and across the country as we take the time to thank and honor the valuable work of school counselors.” The bipartisan resolution, introduced along with Rep. Vernon Ehlers (R-MI), recognizes that school counselors have been integral in efforts to reduce student drop-out rates by helping identify and address problems early in a student’s career. The American School Counselor Association also endorsed this important resolution. This effort comes as a part of Rep. Sánchez’ drive to make schools safer, provide additional counseling and student support in low-income schools, and to improve school environments for personal growth and academic achievement.
01.06.2009	House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Judiciary Subcommittee Chairs Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Committee Member Bill Delahunt (D-MA) today introduced the Helping Families Save Their Homes in Bankruptcy Act of 2009, legislation identical to a bill introduced by Senator Richard Durbin (D-IL) this afternoon. The Helping Families Save Their Homes in Bankruptcy Act makes a straightforward change to the law to give homeowners filing for bankruptcy the opportunity to restructure their loans so that they can save their homes from foreclosure just as they can with virtually any other asset, including vacation homes, family farms, and boats. Specifically, the bill would empower bankruptcy judges to modify mortgage terms to help homeowners stay in their homes. "The economic turmoil we are experiencing is a direct result of the burst housing bubble," said Conyers. "Foreclosure is now expected to claim more than 8 million homes by 2012 - 16% of all mortgages in America. To set our economy on the path to recovery, we need to strengthen our communities by taking steps to stabilize the home mortgage market. Giving homeowners the chance to restructure their loans will help more families avoid foreclosure. "The effect of the stimulus package on our economy will be greatly diminished if we can't keep families in their homes. We need to break the continuing cycle of foreclosure that threatens cities and neighborhoods across the country. After spending $700 billion to keep the financial markets afloat, our bill will finally provide the help homeowners need and won't cost the taxpayers a dime." "The problems we are seeing in the economy started with the mortgage meltdown in the subprime market," said Sánchez. "To make the economy bloom again, we need to plant the seeds of recovery in the housing market. As the law currently stands, judges can restructure debt on second homes, vacation homes -- even yachts and private jets, but not on a debtor's first home. I think that is fundamentally unfair. There is no reason why average Americans should not have the same legal protection to save their family homes." "Inexplicably, home mortgages are virtually the only debts that cannot be modified in bankruptcy," said Nadler. "Millionaires can change mortgage terms to save their vacation homes and investment properties, and corporations can modify loans on airplanes and factories, yet homeowners alone cannot - under any circumstance - save the family home by altering the terms of their loans. Attempts by Congress to allow lenders the discretion to voluntarily modify mortgages have not produced the desired results. Congress must now act to afford homeowners the same protections enjoyed by businesses and the very rich.” “With the number of foreclosures expected to rise and loan modification programs proving to be ineffective, the Congress has no other choice but to take much more aggressive measures to get the mortgage crisis under control and help Americans stay in their homes,” said Delahunt. “The bursting of the housing bubble has created widespread collateral damage on Wall Street and throughout our entire economy, and this legislation will help millions without any expense to taxpayers.”
01.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) was officially sworn into the 111th Congress today for her fourth term representing the 39th district of California by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “I am honored and humbled to continue to represent the people of southern California,” said Sánchez. “I am ready to hit the ground running in the 111th Congress as we face enormous challenges as well as opportunities. I look forward to working with President-elect Barack Obama and my colleagues in Congress to bring change to Washington and the country.” Rep. Sánchez was selected on Monday to serve on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, which plays a key role in federal legislation on taxes and health care. “Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ experience and intellect will serve as a strong asset to the Ways and Means Committee,” said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “I am proud to see her break another barrier by becoming the first Latina to serve on Ways and Means and to continue her outstanding work on behalf of southern California.” “It is a privilege to join the exclusive ranks of the House Ways and Means Committee,” stated Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I am eager to get to work on pocketbook issues that affect my California constituents and am proud to represent them on this influential committee.” Recognized by her colleagues and the national media as a leading voice on judiciary, labor and trade matters, Linda Sánchez has represented California’s 39th Congressional district since 2003. The 39th district includes the communities of Artesia, Cerritos, Florence, Hawaiian Gardens, Lakewood, La Mirada, Long Beach, Lynwood, Paramount, South Gate, Watts, Whittier, and Willowbrook.
01.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC -- U.S. Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) was selected today to serve on the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, which plays a key role in federal legislation on taxes and health care. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi made the announcement Monday evening. “It is a privilege to join the exclusive ranks of the House Ways and Means Committee,” stated Rep. Linda Sánchez. “I am eager to get to work on pocketbook issues that affect my California constituents and am proud to represent them on this influential committee.” Rep. Sánchez will be sworn in on January 6, 2009 for her fourth term as a Congresswoman serving the 39th district of California. She recently served as Chairwoman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, and has been a tireless advocate for working families, labor and trade issues. Sánchez was the first Latina in history to serve on the Judiciary Committee and now breaks another barrier by becoming the first Latina to serve on the Ways and Means Committee. “I plan to continue to serve as an advocate for working families, addressing critical issues including healthcare and retirement,” continued Sánchez. “While it was a great honor to Chair the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, I am very excited to tackle the economic challenges facing the country in my new role.” Created in 1789, Ways and Means is the oldest standing Committee in Congress. Due to its broad jurisdiction on critical issues - involving economic policy, international trade, welfare, Social Security, Medicare and health care policy - the committee occupies a pivotal place in the House Committee system. In addition to legislating, the Committee exercises broad oversight authority in all these areas. The Ways and Means Committee’s rich history of membership includes eight members who have gone on to become President of the United States, eight members who have gone on to become U.S. Vice Presidents, and twenty-one members who have gone on to become Speaker in the U.S. House of Representatives.
12.22.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Monday, December 22, 2008 Contact: PIC Communications Office, 202-203-1700 Presidential Inaugural Committee Announces Honorary Co-Chairs Bipartisan Collection of Distinguished Americans to Help Lead Inaugural Activities WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the 2009 Presidential Inaugural Committee announced the honorary co-chairs for the Inauguration of President-elect Barack Obama and Vice President-elect Joe Biden. In keeping with the President-elect's commitment to an inclusive and bipartisan Inauguration, the list of honorary co-chairs includes members of the President-elect and Vice President-elect's immediate families as well as prominent Americans from both sides of the aisle who have dedicated their lives to selfless service to their fellow citizens. "Vice President-elect Biden and I are grateful to these distinguished men and women for agreeing to serve as Honorary Co-Chairs for the Inauguration," said President-elect Obama. "From family members to former Presidents, each of these leaders has an unwavering commitment to bipartisan cooperation and a proud record of service to their community and our country. They exemplify the spirit of unity and shared purpose this Inauguration will reflect." The Honorary Co-Chairs for the 2009 Presidential Inauguration are: President Jimmy Carter President George H. W. Bush President William J. Clinton Mayor Adrian Fenty Senator Dick Durbin Senator Dick Lugar Senator Claire McCaskill Representative Tammy Baldwin Representative Artur Davis Representative Ray Lahood Representative Linda Sánchez General Colin Powell Hunter and Kathleen Biden Craig Robinson Dr. Maya Soetoro-Ng For the latest information on the 2009 Presidential Inauguration, please visit www.pic2009.org.
12.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today commented on her vote in favor of passage of the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act. “One-in-ten American jobs are connected to the domestic auto industry, and its collapse would permanently damage our manufacturing base while destroying well-paying union jobs that have historically provided a path to the middle class for working people," said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am pleased that the bridge loans provided in this package come with significant taxpayer protections and accountability to the American people.” The U.S. House of Representatives voted 237 to 170 in favor of a $15 billion rescue and restructure package for the automobile industry and now moves to the Senate for approval.
11.26.2008	Cerritos, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today commended her 2008 fall interns on the successful completion of their fall internships. “I thank each and every one of these bright individuals for their contribution,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The work they do -- interacting with constituents as well as office operations -- provides an invaluable service to the 39th district.” Congresswoman Sánchez began her internship program to give local students the opportunity to apply their leadership and talents while getting a firsthand look at how Congress works. Interns become responsible for helping manage independent projects in casework, public relations, grant development, office management, and foreign language translation. “It is encouraging to see young people choosing to participate in public service,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I look forward to seeing these interns accomplish many great things in their careers.” Sanchez’ 2008 fall interns include: HAWAIIAN GARDENS Leonardo Lozano, of Hawaiian Gardens, currently attends Cal State Fullerton where he is pursuing a major in political science and a minor in English. “My experience working in the office has been great,” said Lozano. “I enjoyed working with the staff members and other interns in the office. This internship allowed me to see the effort put forth, by both the Congresswoman and the staff members in her District Office, to help constituents deal with issues they may be facing. Before this internship I did not know that, as a constituent, you can call your representative and ask for help dealing with federal agencies. I feel that I have learned a lot from this experience. I am definitely going to miss coming in the office, interacting with constituents, attending events with the staff members, and sitting in on meetings. Through this internship I got an inside look to what goes on and how things work in a congressional office.” LOS ANGELES David Zavala, of Los Angeles, attends the University of California - Irvine, where he majors in political science and Spanish. "The Congressional Internship with Congresswoman Linda Sánchez has been a very rewarding experience,” said Zavala. “Interns gain valuable knowledge of the congressional level of government while working closely with passionate and exceptional individuals. From engaging in various research projects to attending educational events with the Congresswoman and her staff, interns develop strong communicational and professional skills that are vital for future success. I truly enjoyed being a part of Team Sánchez." LYNWOOD David Mendoza, of Lynwood attends Cerritos College where he majors in history and political science. "The first step to changing the world begins in your own backyard,” says Mendoza. “By taking on this opportunity I was able to witness a first hand perspective in doing just that. This internship took me beyond the desk and telephone and into the hearts of the people who needed our help. Whether it was participating in community outreach or conducting research for casework, this internship has proven to be a dynamic experience." SOUTH GATE Yadira Bribiesca, of Florence-Firestone, is a student at Southeast High School in South Gate. “I believe working with constituents and helping them out is one of the most memorable experiences I will take with me,” said Bribiesca. “It is that “Thank you” you receive from them that makes you feel that your work is worth it. Aside from this I am grateful that I was able to have hands on experience on how government functions on a local level. Also, I believe that I was able to grow in my organizational and speaking skills - just to name a few. This is totally worth it!” Joshua Quinteros, a graduate of South Gate High School earned a degree from Cal State Long Beach and is currently pursuing his J.D. from Southwestern Law School. "The internship has provided me with an insight on the issues that are very important to the constituents within the 39th District,” said Quinteros. “The internship was unlike internship horror stories I have heard, since I was able to assist caseworkers with research on various fields. It has given me valuable experience that will help me in my career goals." WHITTIER Janelle Ramos, of Whittier is a student at St. Joseph’s High School. “This internship has given me the ability to truly discover what the word passion really means,” said Ramos. “I have learned the type of person and professional I would like to be, and the difference between having a job and having a career. Overall it is the hard working people here who have inspired me to take an interest in the world around me and show me importance of that knowledge. So I encourage others to be impacted by these wonderful people and join the Sánchez team!” To learn more about Sánchez’ congressional internships, including deadlines and application information visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov/internship or call (562)860-5050.
11.21.2008	(Washington, D.C.)-- House Judiciary Committee John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today announced their plan to introduce legislation allowing homeowners facing foreclosure to protect their homes in bankruptcy. It would correct a 30-year-old anomaly in the Bankruptcy Code allowing the modification of nearly all loans except a family’s home. Despite the passage of the financial rescue package empowering the Treasury Department to help homeowners facing foreclosure, this Administration has instead spent billions of taxpayer dollars to finance mergers, executive bonuses and spa treatments for bank executives. “No one disputes that the failure of the mortgage market has been the primary source of our present economic turmoil,” said Conyers. “Yet, day after day we hear that home foreclosures are increasing while housing prices are declining. For nearly two years, the banking industry has said, ‘Trust us, we'll solve the problem we created. We'll work with homeowners to modify their mortgage obligations.’ And, for nearly two years, the Bush Administration has told us it can fix the problem. Yesterday, a top Bush Administration official finally acknowledged that the two government programs intended to help hundreds of thousands of borrowers avoid foreclosure are having negligible effects, and studies show that many of the so-called mortgage modifications actually result in homeowners owing more on their mortgages. “We cannot sit idly by and trust those who caused the home foreclosure crisis to fix this problem. We’ve tried that, and it hasn’t worked. Millions of families have lost their homes, and many millions more will as well unless we act. “The legislation that Rep. Sánchez and I plan to introduce would allow deserving homeowners to modify their loans, under the supervision of a court, a trustee, and the Department of Justice. A family would be required to repay the actual value of the home, and would allow the court to modify the predatory interest rate to market value, plus an extra risk premium. Lenders will be protected by preserving their rights to the collateral and extra interest as a cushion against possible future defaults.” “These are the same rights every other borrower has under current law, including speculators who may own hundreds of properties, owners of multi-million dollar vacation homes, yachts, and private jets,” explained Sánchez. “There is no reason why families should not have the same legal protection to save their homes.” Conyers added, “In addition, our bill will make it illegal to challenge a person’s right to vote based on the mere fact his or her home is in foreclosure. I learned that some partisan officials in my own state of Michigan were planning to prevent people from voting in the November election by using foreclosure lists. Our measure will put a stop to these efforts once and for all.”
11.19.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) has been unanimously elected by her peers to represent Southern California on the powerful Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in the 111th Congress. “I am honored to be nominated to the Steering and Policy Committee” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I look forward to bringing an innovative outlook to this important role and working with my colleagues on the issues that affect the people of Southern California and our country.” Led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the Steering and Policy Committee serves a critical and influential function in the House of Representatives by assigning committee seats for Democratic members, as well as making policy recommendations to the party leadership. On the Committee, Sánchez will represent the 18 Democratic Members of Congress from San Luis Obispo to San Diego. Sánchez was elected unanimously by her Southern California colleagues, who recognized her leadership and dedication to serving the state's needs. She begins her new responsibilities Wednesday, November 19, 2008.
11.13.2008	Compton, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez presented the Compton Unified School District with a $134,152 check on November 6 to expand its successful “Young Scholars Program.” “I am proud to bring these federal dollars to such a deserving program,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I have been impressed with the Young Scholars Program and look forward to seeing all the good things it will do for local students.” Young Scholars is an after-school enrichment program that helps young boys in the fifth and sixth grades by providing them with mentors, speakers and field trips, strategies for resolving conflicts, and generally helping them stay focused on doing well in school. The program has been in effect for four years already in the Compton USD serving two elementary schools and one middle school. The funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez will enable the program to expand for two years to Anderson, Jefferson, and King elementary schools, and Bunche and Willowbrook middle schools. “Our children need our help, our support and our commitment. This program provides all three,” continued Congresswoman Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez secured the federal funding in the 2008 omnibus appropriations bill, passed by Congress and signed by the president. Compton USD celebrated Congresswoman Sánchez' presentation of the new federal funds with a ceremony at Bunche Middle School attended by over 150 students, parents, and school staff, including School Board member Marjorie Shipp and Superintendent Kaye Burnside. The audience heard speeches from two of the young scholars and music from a student jazz band. The funding for these programs is in addition to other efforts made by Congresswoman Sánchez to develop her Safe Kids Agenda, a set of bills designed to give students the support they need to stay in school so they can achieve their dreams. The Safe Kids Agenda is based on the simple idea that schools and communities should work to protect children from bullying and harassment and other dangers.
10.06.2008	Whittier, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez held a free Tax Preparation Workshop today at the Uptown Whittier Senior Center to help those who haven’t received their federal rebate check to file their 2007 tax returns. Earlier this year, Congress passed an economic stimulus package that places money back into the pockets of Americans by providing individuals and families with a tax rebate. Currently, there are approximately 500,000 Californians who are still owed these stimulus checks, which can be worth up to $600 -- or even more for those with qualifying dependents. In order to receive these payments, all those eligible must file a 2007 tax return by October 15th -- even if they do not owe any taxes. “At a time when families are struggling to make ends meet, it is unfortunate that 500,000 Californians have free money out there that they have not claimed,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I want to make sure that everyone who is eligible for a rebate check receives one.” In Whittier alone, 2,617 eligible seniors and veterans have not yet filed a return to obtain a stimulus check. Los Angeles County was listed by the IRS as one of the top 100 counties nationwide with unclaimed payments of almost 134,000 unclaimed payments representing a value of over $40 million. “The process is simple. Just fill out the form and send it in before October 15,” Sánchez continued. “If you’re having trouble, please call my office and we can put you in touch with people at the IRS to help you.” Those who normally file tax returns and have already done so do not need to do anything further. However, many veterans and seniors who are not required to file taxes may not realize they are eligible for these benefits. Many earn enough to qualify to receive a stimulus check but not enough to require they file their taxes annually. In order to receive these payments, they must file a 2007 tax return regardless of the fact that many do not owe taxes. More information is available at the following websites or by calling 1-866-234-2942: IRS: https://www.irs.gov/ National Council on Aging: https://www.BenefitsCheckUp.org
10.03.2008	Washington -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today attended a House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Justice Department Inspector General and Office of Professional Responsibility’s recently released report on the U.S. Attorney firing controversy. Congresswoman Sánchez is the Chair of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), which initiated oversight efforts, ultimately prompting the Justice Department investigation. “It is crystal clear that blind partisanship and blind leaders tried to strangle a tradition of blind justice,” Rep. Sánchez said. “This report shows political considerations were an important factor in the removal of several of the fired U.S. Attorneys.” The Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility issued their 358-page report on Monday. “We started the investigation into the firings of nine U.S. Attorneys because of the troubling prospect that partisan politics had contaminated our system of justice,” Rep. Sánchez said. “Mounting evidence now suggests there may also have been criminal conduct by the Department’s senior leadership.” The report recommends that the Attorney General appoint a special prosecutor to work with Inspector General /Office of Professional Responsibility to conduct further investigations, and ultimately determine whether the evidence demonstrates that any criminal offense was committed with regard to the U.S. Attorney firings or the testimony of any witness related to the U.S. Attorney firings. However, Attorney General Michael Mukasey appointed Nora Dannehy, the Acting U.S. Attorney in Connecticut, as the Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, rather than seeking to appoint someone outside of the government to serve as a Special Counsel. “Appointing Ms. Dannehy as an Acting U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia could indicate that the President or the Attorney General plan to cut this investigation off at the knees,” Rep. Sánchez said. “I am deeply concerned that Ms. Dannehy’s lack of independence from the executive branch individuals she is investigating could lead to her quietly getting overruled when trying to subpoena Karl Rove, Harriet Miers, and others at the White House responsible for the improper politically-motivated firings.”
09.29.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) today voted against HR 3997, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, also known as the financial "bailout bill," and issued the following statement. “Families want to be sure that their hard-earned tax dollars aren't spent without sufficient oversight and accountability,” said Sánchez. “The revised plan we voted on today was better than the three-page White House version we were given a week ago, but it still fell short of something my conscience would permit me to vote for. “The bill's efforts to cap executives' salaries and bonuses were weak. And it lacked much-needed bankruptcy reform that would allow the outrageous terms of subprime and non-traditional mortgages to be readjusted. I cannot support a proposal to bail out the Wall Street speculators and investors who are responsible for the financial crisis while leaving average homeowners holding the bag. “Now that the bill has failed, we have the opportunity to craft a better bill with stronger accountability, bankruptcy reform and other assistance for struggling homeowners, effective limitations on excessive salaries for those who caused this mess, and real opportunities for taxpayers to recover their investment. In addition, we must make sure that this investment in Wall Street is accompanied by investments in our communities, schools, and transportation systems.”
09.26.2008	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chair of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), today held an oversight hearing to determine whether Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code is working as Congress intended and how the increase in business bankruptcies fits into the current economic crisis that has engulfed the country. The hearing examined recent bankruptcy filings by Lehman Brothers, Sharper Image, Bennigan’s and others. “The financial crisis gripping the United States has led to unprecedented government bailouts of private companies and a surge in business bankruptcies and just last week, Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11, the largest filing in U.S. history,” said Chairwoman Linda Sánchez. “On the eve of Lehman’s bankruptcy filing, it apparently utilized the netting provisions of the 2005 Bankruptcy Code amendments to offset various financial contracts it had outstanding.” Chapter 11 filings, where a company attempts to stay in business, are up 30 percent. Lehman Brothers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy with total debts of $613 billion against total assets of $639 billion. This filing dwarfed the previous largest bankruptcy in 2002 of WorldCom Inc., which had $104 billion in assets. American Bankruptcy Institute data also indicates that during the first half of 2008, there were 55 percent more Chapter 7 liquidations than last year. “A disturbing trend that appears to be developing is that more and more retailers are opting to liquidate rather than reorganize,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “Some blame the overall economic climate. Some blame the credit crunch. Those in the bankruptcy community believe that the 2005 amendments, including, for example, the non-residential leasehold provision, are the principal cause of retailers choosing to close their stores, layoff their employees, and liquidate their assets, rather than attempt to reorganize.” Witnesses included Jay Westbrook, a Professor at the University of Texas School of Law, Barry E. Adler of New York University School of Law and Lawrence Gottlieb, Esq., of Cooley Godward Kronish LLP. Chairman and CEO of Lehman Brothers, Richard S. Fuld, was invited to testify at the hearing but was not able to make himself available. Congresswoman Sánchez suggested the committee conduct a further hearing at which Mr. Fuld will have an opportunity to testify. “We haven’t seen such a significant economic crisis in our Nation’s history since the Great Depression,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “It is imperative that we examine the role of bankruptcy law and any other factors affecting the crisis.”
09.25.2008	Washington -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced today that she has secured support for $800,000 for Whittier College’s East Asian Studies Program which will significantly add to the next generation of U.S. college graduates trained in this important security studies field. “Whittier College students have so much to offer their communities and the nation,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “I am pleased that I was able to secure this funding for the college which will prepare the next generation of political and business leaders to compete internationally.” The funds, which were included in the Defense Appropriations bill, will allow Whittier College to expand its East Asian Studies Program and train a growing pool of U.S. academics and professionals with expertise in the People’s Republic of China, North Korea, and other areas of East Asian security studies. The bill is expected to be passed soon by the Senate and be signed into law by the President. “Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leader on behalf of Whittier College,” said Dr. Sharon Herzberger, Whittier College President. “This funding will not only enhance our college programs, but send our students out better prepared to effectively promote U.S. interests in East Asia.” Funding for this program will expand language course development and create two language centers on campus, enhance international economics and military security curricula, and provide opportunities for Whittier College students to study abroad and participate in globalization conferences. This support also contributes to the economy and Whittier College, a major local employer and beneficiary to the community. Whittier College, the fourth most diverse national liberal arts college in the nation, has seen an increase in students’ interest in East Asian Studies, with the number of students taking first year Chinese having almost doubled. The Department of Defense has a longstanding tradition of funding academic research centers that train students and professors to become experts on areas of the world that are security challenges for the United States. “I am pleased that Whittier College will receive this national recognition and funding help to enhance programs that will be in our national interest,” said Congresswoman Sánchez.
09.25.2008	Washington -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced today that she has secured support for $6 million in federal funding for California State University Long Beach’s Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, a cutting-edge maritime and transportation research institution. “This funding is important not only for Cal State Long Beach, but for continued innovation of clean transportation technologies to protect the environment,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. "I am pleased that I was able to double funding this year to support cutting-edge research at CSULB that will eventually help us to move cargo from our ports without congesting our roads with trucks.” The funds, which were included in the Defense Appropriations bill, will support research on critical maritime transportation issues, including the efficient movement of military and civilian cargo through local ports, as well as the effectiveness of cargo port and supply chain security. The bill is expected to be passed soon by the Senate and be signed into law by the President. “We are proud to have the support of Congresswoman Sánchez and are thrilled to receive this funding,” said CSULB President F. King Alexander. “Working with local transportation officials, the University will utilize the funding to enhance logistics, pollution reduction, congestion relief, and goods movement research, which will benefit the military and residents of southern California.” The funding will greatly enhance the university’s logistics, pollution reduction, congestion relief, and goods movement research, development, and studies. Additional CSULB efforts include information technologies to improve the flow of commercial and military goods movement, pollution reduction of ship emissions while in port, short sea shipping (maritime highway), cargo systems to move shipping containers off highways, port disruption and recovery models, electronic tracking devices for military and commercial cargo, logistics curriculum development and training for the US Navy (building on the university’s successful Global Logistics Degree Programs), and Innovation Cell funding to support innovative new research that can be transitioned to the private sector. The Department of Defense has a longstanding tradition of funding academic research centers that solve defense-related problems for the United States. “I am pleased that Cal State Long Beach can continue to receive such meaningful investments to upgrade technologies that affect our national interest,” said Congresswoman Sánchez.
09.18.2008	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chair of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), today held an oversight hearing to discuss H.R. 5793, the Cell Tax Fairness Act of 2008, which would impose a five-year moratorium on any new discriminatory state or local taxes on mobile services, mobile service providers, and mobile service property. “Working families are being hit hard with the rising cost of gas, food, even healthcare. They need to be assured that their cell phone bills won’t be the next to spin out of control,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Any tax increase that may be burdensome to the average consumer should be carefully reviewed.” Members of the committee heard testimony on the taxes and fees imposed on wireless services and providers, and discussion in determining whether the tax and fee burden is truly unfair and not justifiable. “We must remember to balance the competing interests concerning the issues addressed by this legislation,” Sánchez said. “As consumers, we want to pay lower taxes and fees on our wireless services. But we understand that state and local governments need revenue to provide the services we need and expect from them.” Witnesses included The Honorable Gail W. Mahoney on behalf of the National Association of Counties; The Honorable James Clayborne, an Illinois State Senator; Scott Mackey of the law firm Kimbell Sherman Ellis; and Tillman L. Lay on behalf of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National League of Cities, the Government Finance Officers Association and the National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Administrators.
09.16.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), today held an oversight hearing to address the adequacy of trustee compensation in Chapter 7 bankruptcy cases. “Trustees should be justly compensated for providing a service that adds to the value of life -- often giving the average person a fresh start,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Despite the time consuming and important nature of these cases, trustees are paid only $60 for their services -- a fee that has not been increased in over 14 years.” While trustees are also entitled under the Code to recover commissions on the assets they distribute to creditors, they receive commissions in less than ten percent of the cases they administer. When the bankruptcy filing fee is waived because the debtor cannot afford it, the trustee does not even receive the $60 fee. The CAL Subcommittee heard testimony and specific proposals on whether trustee compensation should be increased and what the consequences will be for the bankruptcy system if it is not. Earlier this year, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary favorably reported a bill that provides for a $60 increase in the per-case trustee fee. “Thousands of skillful women and men make what is often an emotion-filled and daunting process run smoothly in Chapter 7 bankruptcy cases, and are indispensable to the integrity of the bankruptcy system,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Witnesses present at the hearing were Robert Furr, the current President of the National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees and himself a bankruptcy trustee; Eugene Crane, a bankruptcy trustee and the former President of the National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees; Margaret Dee McGarity, a judge on the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin; and Jack Williams, Professor of Law at Georgia State University College of Law and Scholar-in-Residence at the American Bankruptcy Institute.
09.04.2008	Bill would increase the number of school counselors, social workers &amp; school psychologists in low-income schools Whittier, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, at Whittier Union High School, announced education legislation she has introduced in Congress that will increase the number of school counselors, social workers and psychologists in qualified schools in low-income communities. “With No Child Left Behind dramatically increasing the pressure on teachers and administrators to improve test scores, often times we forget that students require support in many ways,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “This bill not only provides important resources to students who need it but also supports counseling professionals and teachers to continue or pursue their careers.” H.R. 6654, the Increased Student Achievement Through Increased Student Support Act, will authorize grant funding to form partnerships between higher education institutions that train these student support professionals and Local Educational Agencies that serve low-income student populations in both urban and rural communities. The legislation also creates a student loan forgiveness program for individuals who have served five or more consecutive school years as school counselors, school social workers, or school psychologists in similarly qualified low-income schools. “School Boards across California and the country face similar budget decisions all too often, having to choose between instruction and support services when funding is crunched,” said LAUSD Board Member Yolie Flores Aguilar. “Congresswoman Sánchez’ bill will help resolve this dilemma that is all too common in education funding decisions.” Congressman Edolphus "Ed" Towns (NY-10), co-sponsored this legislation with Congresswoman Sánchez (CA-39) in the U.S. House of Representatives. A companion bill is being introduced in the Senate by Senators Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY), and Thad Cochran (R-MS). “Counselors and our student support services are the backbone of our instructional program. If our students are busy dealing with social, emotional, or behavioral issues, they cannot focus on the core curriculum our teachers are presenting,” said WUHSD Superintendent Sandy Thorstenson. “On a daily basis, we challenge our students to maximize their learning opportunities and perform at their highest levels. This legislation addresses the critical needs our students have every day, allowing them to hit the high goals we set for them and ensuring they succeed in high school and beyond.” The legislation has been endorsed by over 20 education and mental health organizations, including the American School Counselor Association, the American Counseling Association, the School Social Work Association of America and the National Association of School Psychologists.
08.14.2008	South Gate, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez hosted her 6th Annual Senior Fair Wednesday at the South Gate Park Auditorium in South Gate and updated seniors on legislation in Congress that affects them directly including social security, Medicare and foreclosures. Over 500 seniors attended the event to participate in free health screenings, receive information and legal advice, or to consult with agencies such as the Social Security Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs and senior advocacy organizations. “I take it as a personal responsibility to provide the most up to date information and services that can help the seniors in my district,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “I also enjoy talking with seniors one-on-one and hearing their thoughts on what is important to them.” Approximately 40 vendors were on site, including some providing free screenings for bone density, blood pressure, sun damage, and glucose levels. Other vendors provided information to seniors regarding financial planning, reverse mortgages, elder rights, housing rights, and caregiver assistance. Representatives from the IRS and Social Security Administration answered individual questions and the Center for Healthcare Rights gave information regarding Medicare and prescription drugs. “I came to Congresswoman Sánchez’ Senior Fair again this year because they have been a real help to me,” said Carlos Garcia of Norwalk, CA. “Three years ago I took a prostate screening at the fair and found out that I had prostate cancer. But because of the screening, I found out early enough so that I was able to get it treated easily and successfully.” As a part of her commitment to constituent service, Congresswoman Sánchez’ staff caseworkers were available at the Senior Fair for individual questions and continue to make themselves available to constituents who need assistance. If seniors who were not able to attend the Senior Fair have a question or need help finding information, Congresswoman Sánchez welcomes them to contact her office by calling (562) 860-5050 or visiting www.lindasanchez.house.gov. The South Gate Blues provided entertainment for the event and performed several of their popular dance routines. A free lunch was provided by the Old-timers Foundation.
08.07.2008	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez and the members of her staff today expressed their appreciation for the work of the office’s four interns, Jubel Becerra, Jessica Gomez, Luis Medina and Freddy Rayos. The interns are from cities throughout the 39th congressional district. “The young people who intern in my office worked very hard this semester for the people of my district,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “They did an absolutely spectacular job helping us on everything from running the office to arranging events. I know each one of them has a bright future.” Jubel Becerra is a graduate student at California State Long Beach, where he is working toward his Masters in International Relations. Becerra hails from La Mirada and his overall goal is to eventually work for an international organization, or enter the field of academia. “What I liked most about the internship was the firsthand experience of how federal politics affect people locally, something often overlooked in textbooks,” Becerra said. Jessica Gomez is a student at the University of California, Riverside, where she is majoring in Political Science. Upon graduating Gomez plans to pursue a Masters Degree in Public Policy. She is originally from La Mirada. “I really enjoyed being able to sit in on a meeting with the Congresswoman,” Gomez said. “I also enjoyed helping out with events and doing outreach to constituents.” Luisa Medina is from South Gate. She currently attends school at St. Matthias High School where she is a junior. Medina plays on the school’s varsity soccer team and was selected to play on a National team in Chicago on behalf of South Gate in 2006. “I learned new things everyday and I met new people who are interested in the community.” Freddy Rayos is a graduate of California State University Fullerton’s Political Science program. He currently lives in Lakewood. Rayos is very active in youth issues and has spent time working with youth groups at many local churches. “I think the internship was very engaging,” Rayos said. “I enjoyed being involved, working with the community with the Congresswoman's staff in a professional, challenging setting.” Maribel Angulo, a rising senior at the University of California, Santa Barbara majoring in Political Science and International Relations, spent the summer as an intern in the Congresswoman’s Washington, D.C. office. Maribel is active in student volunteer organizations and community service projects. She fielded constituent calls, drafted letters and attended briefings for congressional staff while interning. "I believe that the most important lessons are learned through experiences,” Angulo said. “The most rewarding aspect of working in a congressional office was seeing the behind-the-scenes workload entailed to craft, introduce and execute a bill in the House". If students are interested in internship opportunities with Congresswoman Sánchez’s district office please call 562-860-5050 or visit lindasanchez.house.gov/internship for full details on the internship program. Students who are interested in Washington, D.C. internship opportunities should send a resume, cover letter detailing why they are pursuing the internship, and a short writing sample to ca39jobs@mail.house.gov with "internship" in the subject line.
07.31.2008	Legislation Includes Sánchez Amendment to promote education for youth ex-offenders Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) today voted in support of the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2008, which included an amendment she introduced along with Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL) to authorize grants for community colleges to create partnerships with juvenile detention centers and residential facilities that would reduce recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders by providing education, vocational training, counseling, and related activities. “Youth involved in gangs do not have to be condemned to a future involved in gangs,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Believing that we can do more to turn around the lives of young people who have started down the wrong path, I am pleased to send legislation that leverages the power of community colleges to the President’s desk.” By a vote of 380 to 49, the House approved the Higher Education Opportunity Act (H.R. 4137), which would reform and strengthen the nation’s higher education programs to ensure that they operate in the best interests of students and families. Among its provisions are new incentives for states to maintain their contributions to higher education, protections for prospective student loan borrowers, policies to make textbooks more affordable, and expanded funding for programs that help low-income and under represented students enroll and succeed in college. The legislation builds on the Democratic Congress' efforts to make college more affordable and accessible for all qualified students. The Hastings-Sánchez amendment authorizes a nationwide grant program through the Department of Education to promote holistic, community-centered partnerships aimed at reducing gang violence and recidivism rates among juvenile ex-offenders. Community colleges, partnering with appropriate local agencies and volunteers, would apply for the grants to educate juveniles detained in or released from secure facilities. In addition to offering students programs leading to a career certificate or an Associate's degree, the community colleges would coordinate mentoring, counseling, and related services for youthful offenders to help them transition smoothly into the community as productive members of society and even cooperate with law enforcement in efforts to keep other youth from choosing to engage in gang activity.
07.31.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today applauded the ruling by United States District Court Judge John Bates that former White House Counsel Harriet Miers is not immune from a congressional subpoena and is required to appear at a hearing about her role in the U.S. Attorney scandal and the politicization of the Department of Justice. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, who chairs the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following statement: “The decision is a victory for the strength of our democracy. Miers and all the others who have been subpoenaed, should finally realize that the checks and balances of our American democracy cannot be snubbed. This is a vindication of my rulings that the White House’s Nixonian arguments of executive privilege and immunity are invalid. I look forward to scheduling a hearing with Ms. Miers at the Subcommittee in September.” The district court decision also rejected arguments by the White House with respect to the subpoenaed documents, and ruled that White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten is required to produce non-privileged documents and specifically describe documents withheld from production based on executive privilege claims. As chair of the CAL Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Justice Department’s Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys, Congresswoman Sánchez, along with Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr., led last year’s House investigations into the firings of nine U.S. Attorneys. Those investigations included seven hearings, five of those before the CAL Subcommittee.
07.30.2008	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, in today’s House Judiciary Committee, voted in support of a resolution and report which would urge the House of Representatives to cite former White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove for contempt of Congress for his refusal to honor a Congressional subpoena requesting his testimony. Congresswoman Sánchez’ prepared remarks are below. “I urge support of the resolution and report recommending to the House of Representatives that Karl Rove, former White House Deputy Chief of Staff, be cited for contempt of Congress and that the House pursue enforcing the subpoena through other legal remedies as appropriate. “This is a simple and straightforward issue: Karl Rove is under subpoena to appear before the House Judiciary Committee. Instead of abiding by that subpoena, he snubbed this Committee, the Congress, and the American people. We have a duty to protect this Committee’s institutional prerogatives to conduct meaningful oversight and gather facts for lawmaking in the future. If we refuse to act on Mr. Rove’s brazen snub, then we are responsible for the results: Congress will no longer be a co-equal branch of government and our system of checks and balances will be irreparably eroded. “I am extremely disappointed that Mr. Rove, a private citizen, based his failure to comply with the subpoena on the White House’s sweeping claim of immunity. In a letter to Mr. Rove’s attorney, White House Counsel Fred Fielding indicated that Mr. Rove is constitutionally immune from compelled congressional testimony about matters that arose during his tenure as a presidential aide and relate to his official duties. However, not a single court decision supports the contention that a former White House aide can refuse to show up to a congressional hearing. “The Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee carefully considered the claims of absolute immunity in a meeting earlier this month. In a detailed ruling, I found that these claims were not properly asserted and not legally valid. The ruling was upheld by Subcommittee members in a 7-1 recorded vote. “We should not be distracted by the specious arguments and excuses proffered by the Minority in defense of Mr. Rove. “The Minority has argued that Mr. Rove was out of town essentially arguing that his absence should be excused much like when a doctor provides a “sick” note for a student who misses a day of school. “However, neither Mr. Rove nor his counsel informed the Majority that he would be out of the country during the scheduled hearing. Had Mr. Rove truly intended to comply with the subpoena, he should have responded to it by asking to schedule a mutually agreeable date. Instead of complying with a subpoena as every other American would do, Mr. Rove left the country. “The Minority has argued that Mr. Rove agreed to answer questions from the Committee in writing and did in fact provide answers to questions about the Siegelman matter posed by Ranking Member Smith. “However, these written answers are not an adequate substitute for live testimony. The answers were not made under oath, were not signed by Mr. Rove, and failed to address the U.S. Attorney firings or the broader issue of politicization. Why is Mr. Rove willing to talk about these matters in scripted settings that he controls but will not submit to public questioning by all the Members of this Committee? “The Minority has argued that this Committee’s investigation into the politicization of the Justice Department has been a fishing expedition that has caught no fish. However, the report by the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility that was released on Monday found that former White House Liaison Monica Goodling and many other Justice Department officials committed misconduct by violating both federal law and Department policy. “The report made clear that Karl Rove and the White House Office of Political Affairs and Presidential Personnel routinely gave recommendations for candidates for career positions at the Department and many of those candidates were placed into those civil service positions, even when they were less qualified than other candidates. “We now need to hear directly from Mr. Rove, not only so that we can fully understand his role in politicizing the Justice Department, but so that we can pursue additional lines of inquiry. Only after full disclosure of the facts and exposure of misguided and illegal activities, can we return the Department to its core mission of ensuring the fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans. “Despite the flurry of arguments from the Minority, let’s not lose sight of the critical issue here: Mr. Rove has defied a congressional subpoena and should face the consequences. I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will stand up for this body’s institutional prerogatives by supporting the resolution and the report. After all, our actions set a precedent for future relations between the legislative and executive branches, regardless of which party holds the majority in Congress or occupies the White House.”
07.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Members of the House Trade Working Group today reacted to a report by the Economic Policy Institute (EPI) that shows the growing U.S. trade deficit with China cost our economy 2.3 million jobs between 2001 and 2007, including 366,000 last year alone. A copy can be provided upon request. More than half (55.6 percent) of the jobs displaced by trade with China were in the top half of American wage earners. Nearly a third (31 percent) were among workers with a college degree. “This report outlines the devastating impact of the U.S. trade deficit with China. That deficit has cost 366,000 U.S. jobs and job opportunities in the past year alone,” said Congressman Mike Michaud (D-ME). “The U.S. trade deficit is further increased by China’s manipulation of its currency, the yuan. It’s time for Congress to pass the Ryan-Hunter legislation to fight currency manipulation. We must also pass a trade enforcement bill that has the teeth to address this enormous trade imbalance.” “California this past year alone, has lost over 55,000 jobs due to growing China trade deficits, a hard hit for local families and the domestic economy,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA). “Until we revise our policies to encourage American corporations to invest here, rather than in countries with inadequate labor laws, and even forced labor, we can expect more wage suppression and job loss.” “This report confirms what people in my district already know,” said Congressman Phil Hare (D-IL), who recently testified before the International Trade Commission in support of taking action against Chinese tire dumping. “Unfair trade with China is costing Americans good-paying jobs and decimating our manufacturing base in Illinois and across the nation. After six consecutive months of job loss and a ballooning trade deficit with China, it is time to move forward with strong enforcement legislation that penalizes the Chinese government for currency manipulation, illegal subsidies, and other wrongful practices. If China’s misconduct continues, we should revisit the merits of their PNTR status.” “The information in this report will come as no surprise to the people who have been negatively impacted by this country’s flawed and unfair trade practices,” said Congresswoman Betty Sutton (D-OH). “I have seen communities and families devastated by policies that show little regard for the needs of American workers and businesses. The startling job losses outlined in this report - including over 100,000 in my home state of Ohio due to China trade policies alone - make it clear that our country needs new trade policies that work for American families and businesses instead of against them.” "This report illustrates how trade with closed economies isn't free trade at all,” said Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). “We are sacrificing our values and selling our security to the lowest bidder. China captures the gold medal for unfair trade practices." “This report makes it crystal clear that we can ill-afford another four years of the Bush-McCain model of trade. While some may have given up and claim that the jobs that Michigan has lost are not coming back, I am not willing to throw in the towel,” said Congressman Dale Kildee (D-MI). “I believe in fair trade that is balanced and enforced by an Administration that encourages the resurgence of domestic manufacturing. When American workers have a level playing field, we can compete - and win - against any nation in the world.”
07.24.2008	Award of $300,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Labor helps to fund mentoring services for women pursuing careers in the electrical field Lakewood, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today congratulated Women in Non Traditional Employment Roles (WINTER) on their award of a $300,000 grant from the United States Department of Labor that provides for a groundbreaking initiative designed to establish mentor programs and leadership opportunities for women working in the electrical field in the Los Angeles County area. “Because women are now - more than ever - feeling the effects of a poor economy, it is important that we encourage and support women who are preparing for the workforce or moving up the workforce ladder,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Organizations such as WINTER reach out to women in our community and help our community to be better and stronger.” Congresswoman Sánchez herself worked for the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 441 and the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) after graduating from law school. She is an active and card-carrying member of IBEW Local 441. The program, titled “Partnership for Success: EMPOWER (Electrical Mentoring Programs Offering Women Extra Resources”, will be created and administered by WINTER. The overarching goal of the initiative is to support, train, and place women in the electrical field in the LA County area and to encourage them to develop awareness and leadership skills. “Congresswoman Sánchez has been a leader in the industry and we appreciate her support,” said Alexandra Torres Galancid, the Executive Director of WINTER. “This ambitious grant allows us to provide technical assistance to provide technical assistance to employers on the value of hiring women, and to provide women with the skills and support they need to pursue gainful high-wage employment in the community.” Congresswoman Sánchez has been a consistent champion for women in the workforce. Earlier this year, she introduced the “Pathways Advancing Career Training Act” (PACT) to help unemployed and underemployed women gain access to training for good jobs that can support a family. “Nearly 7.5 million U.S. children living in poverty reside in female-headed households, and we have a responsibility to help those most in need,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “If we are committed to the idea that every woman and child should have access to the American dream, we need quality training for well-paying jobs.” The PACT Act would provide assistance to state programs that train women for employment in high-skill, high-wage fields where they are often underrepresented. Congresswoman Sánchez' bill would support programs that address barriers to employment for single parents, displaced homemakers, and divorced and widowed women re-entering the workforce after extended periods of time at home caring for family members.
07.24.2008	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-Lakewood) backed the most comprehensive response yet to the American mortgage crisis. The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act will help families keep their homes, aid local communities hit hard by the foreclosure crisis and strengthen the economy and financial markets. The bill passed yesterday in the House by a vote of 272-152. “The mortgage crisis impacts families in my district and families everywhere,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Families have lost their homes, millions more are on the brink of foreclosure, and homeowners have seen their property values plummet. The bill I supported will help homeowners keep their homes and get our economy back on track.” Because of her awareness of, and concern on the mortgage crisis, Congresswoman Sánchez, along with Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-Los Angeles), hosted a foreclosure prevention and homeownership preservation workshop for constituents in southeastern Los Angeles County last Saturday. More than 500 people attended the free event to receive advice from credit counselors and lenders, one-on-one counseling, and information on viable options regarding foreclosure prevention assistance. The American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act will allow hard-working American families in danger of losing their home to refinance into lower-cost government insured mortgages they can afford to repay at no cost to the American taxpayer. The legislation also: - Strengthens neighborhoods hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis by providing resources to allow cities and states to buy up and rehabilitate foreclosed properties that are currently driving down home prices, reducing state and local revenues, and destabilizing neighborhoods; - Expands homeownership opportunities for veterans and helps returning soldiers avoid foreclosure and stay in their home; - Provides tax breaks to spur home buying; and - Creates a new fund to boost the nation’s stock of affordable rental housing in both rural and urban areas for low and very low-income individuals and families. The legislation passed yesterday also includes provisions that will help restore confidence in financial markets and shore up Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The bill provides the Department of the Treasury with emergency and temporary financing authority for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are important institutions that hold or guarantee nearly half of all mortgages in the United States. On Tuesday, the Congressional Budget Office Director Peter Orszag said there was “a significant chance, probably better than 50 percent, that the proposed new Treasury authority would not be used before it expired at the end of December 2009.” The legislation has earned the support of Democrats and Republicans in both the House and Senate and President Bush has indicated that he will sign the bill into law. “I’m proud of the bipartisan work that has been done to address this crisis that affects us all,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “Together, we’ve crafted much-needed legislation and I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to strengthen the economy.”
07.23.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) pressed Attorney General Michael Mukasey today at a House Judiciary Committee hearing with questions on the validity of Karl Rove’s decision to ignore a congressional subpoena and on the Department's lack of leadership in bringing transparency to corporate monitorships. “I think Attorney General Mukasey knows that the White House has overextended its executive privilege claim,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “But unfortunately we have yet another attorney general who is more interested in towing the party line than bringing a breath of fresh air to the Justice Department." Earlier this month, former White House adviser Karl Rove refused to testify before Congress about his role in politically motivated actions of the Justice Department. Sánchez, who chairs a subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee ruled to reject the White House’s claim that as a former close advisor to the president, Karl Rove is constitutionally immune from having to appear for testimony. Sánchez also questioned Mukasey on non-prosecution and deferred prosecutions. On the eve of the March 11, 2008 deferred prosecution hearing, the Justice Department released new guidelines, which provided only scant internal rules on pre-trial corporate settlement agreements. “These were suspiciously timely guidelines that do not provide the transparency and uniformity that is essential for the selection of independent corporate monitors,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “They certainly do not give prosecutors and corporations the guidance they need before entering into deferred or non-prosecution agreements.” In response, Sánchez, along with Congressman Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) and Congressman Frank Pallone (D-NJ) introduced the “Accountability in Deferred Prosecution Act of 2008.” The bill requires the Department to issue guidelines and creates a system of oversight for deferred and non-prosecution agreements. These agreements gained national attention after former Attorney General John Ashcroft gave testimony in front of the Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, which Sánchez chairs, on a lucrative corporate monitoring contract his firm received as a part of a deferred prosecution agreement.
07.19.2008	Downey, CA -- More than 500 people from throughout Los Angeles County attended a foreclosure prevention and homeownership preservation workshop in Downey co-sponsored by Congresswomen Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34) and Linda Sánchez (CA-39). Held at West Middle School on Old River School Road, credit counselors and lenders were available at the free event to offer on-site assistance, one-on-one counseling, and information on viable options regarding foreclosure prevention assistance. “To keep the American dream alive, we must make sure that the avenues to economic progress remain open,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “I believe that all homeowners like the average homeowner in my district, should have access to the full range of financial options available to other, more affluent homeowners.” Housing, tax and financial professionals also provided presentations to help homeowners understand the foreclosure process; guard against fraud and scams; address tax issues; and rebuild their credit. Representatives from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), LA County NeighborWorks Center for Foreclosure Solutions, the Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, and area banks participated in the workshop. The congresswomen also provided an overview of the legislative solutions passed and pending in Congress to address the crisis and help Americans stay in and keep their homes and revitalize their communities. Congresswoman Sánchez co-wrote a bill with Congressman Brad Miller of North Carolina, called the Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act. The bill would allow bankruptcy judges to restructure home mortgage debt as they can currently do for mortgages on investment properties, vacation homes, and family farms, helping around 600,000 homeowners from losing their homes. With the Congresswomen’s support, Congress passed legislation that temporarily expands access to affordable, government-insured mortgages by increasing the Federal Housing Administration loan limits to account for the high price of California housing. Congress also passed legislation to protect homeowners from having to face an additional tax bill while they are in the process of losing their home through foreclosure. Finally, Congress passed legislation to expand housing and financial counseling opportunities so that families can learn what they can do now to keep their homes rather than lose them. The congresswomen also said they support passage of a pending Housing Stimulus bill that provides the most comprehensive response yet to the foreclosure crisis. The measure is also likely to include a provision to permanently raise the limit for government backed loans to help homeowners in costly areas such as California. The stimulus bill would expand a federal mortgage insurance program to help borrowers who are in danger of losing their homes. This expansion would help them to refinance into lower-cost, government-backed mortgages that they would be able to afford to pay. In addition, the bill would increase the line of government credit to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to stabilize the Government Sponsored Enterprises and reinforce confidence in our financial markets.
07.17.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today announced the promotion and hiring of new staff for her offices in Washington and in California. “I am proud to have assembled such a strong and experienced team who work hard for the people of California every day,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “These staff members are all great assets to Team Sánchez and will serve the constituents of my district well.” In Washington: Mercedes Salem is Congresswoman Sánchez’ new Legislative Counsel. Previously, Salem worked in the office of Speaker Nancy Pelosi and served as a legislative fellow with Congressman Patrick Murphy. Prior to her work on Capitol Hill, Salem worked in Silicon Valley as a web development project manager for companies such as Fujitsu Inc. and as a consultant for Cisco Systems. While pursuing her law degree she worked at the Santa Clara District Attorney’s Office and was a law clerk at the Department of Justice in Washington DC. Salem holds a B.S. in Anthropology from Santa Clara University and J.D. from Santa Clara University School of Law. Marsha Catron joins the team as Sánchez’ Communications Director. Prior to joining the office, Catron served as the traveling press secretary for New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson’s presidential campaign. Before that, Catron worked as communications director at Santos Alliances, a leading public affairs firm in Texas. She also served as the acting executive director for the Board of Hispanic Caucus Chairs, and previously as a member of the communications team in the Office of the Governor of New Mexico. Catron holds an M.A. in Communication Studies from Texas State University in San Marcos, and a B.S. in Education from New Mexico State University. Patrick Gibson serves as Legislative Correspondent/Legislative Assistant for Team Sánchez, handling constituent correspondence and overseeing environmental, energy and consumer protection issues as well as assisting on Spanish-language press matters. Previously Gibson worked as a staff assistant and then legislative correspondent before being promoted to his current position. He has also served as an intern in Rep. Jan Schakowsky’s office. Gibson is a graduate of Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota. A native of the 39th District, from South Gate, CA, Angelina Mancillas is a Legislative Correspondent/Legislative Assistant handling constituent correspondence as well as legislative issues including health, water, science, Native American and women’s issues. Mancillas was hired on as permanent staff after completing a fellowship with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute. Previously, Mancillas worked as an assistant administrator for BasicHealth: El Salvador, an organization which conducts annual medical delegations to El Salvador. Mancillas attended Cerritos College and later U.C. Riverside where she majored in Political Science and Chicano Studies. Andrew High was promoted to Staff/Press Assistant after serving seven months as the office’s press intern. Previously, he worked as a press intern on Senator Chris Dodd’s presidential campaign where he was responsible for daily afternoon press briefings. High is currently studying for his M.A. in Applied Politics at American University’s School of Public Affairs. In California: Daisy Pizana, also a native of the 39th District, from South Gate, CA, was promoted to Casework Manager and Field Representative in the Congresswoman’s district office in Cerritos. In that capacity, she stays closely tuned to local issues relating to education and youth in the district, including managing the office internship program. Prior to her present position, Pizana worked in the field of education working closely with English Language Learners. Pizana is a graduate of Mount St. Mary’s College where she majored in French, History and Spanish and minored in Pre-Law. She is presently pursuing her Masters in Public Administration from the University of Southern California. Joining the team as a Senior Field Representative and Grants Manager, is Thérèse A. Hughes. Prior to joining the office, Hughes worked at the Venice Family Clinic where she was responsible for government relations, legislative analysis and advocacy. Previously, she served a two year appointment on the National Wyden-Hatch Citizens’ Health Care Working Group where she represented the State of California and the health care needs of under-served. Hughes has served as Chair of the Ventura County Grand Jury’s Health, Education and Welfare Committee and as Board Member of the Environmental Defense Center in Santa Barbara, CA. She holds an M.A. in Urban Planning from UCLA.
07.15.2008	Washington, DC -- The Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL) favorably reported three arbitration reform bills to the full Judiciary Committee today. Previous CAL Subcommittee hearings have exposed problems with mandatory pre-dispute binding arbitration clauses. H.R. 6126, the Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act of 2008, which Congresswoman Sánchez introduced, and which would prohibit mandatory pre-dispute binding arbitration clauses in nursing home contracts, was approved on a 5-4 party-line vote. “The decision to place a loved one in a nursing home is always difficult,” Chairwoman Linda Sánchez said. “Arbitration agreements are often buried in overly complicated contracts, and many consumers do not realize they are waiving their legal options. We have to protect families and seniors, and that includes giving them the tools they need to hold abusive nursing home operators accountable for their actions.” The Subcommittee also favorably reported Congresswoman Sánchez’ Automobile Arbitration Fairness Act of 2008, H.R. 5312, by a voice vote. The bill would prohibit pre-dispute binding mandatory arbitration clauses in contracts signed by car buyers, thus providing consumers with the same protection that auto dealers now enjoy with respect to contracts with auto manufacturers. “Consumers should not be limited to the remedy that is best for auto dealers when they are trying to resolve a dispute,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “Arbitration can still be an avenue for resolving a dispute as long as both sides agree to enter that process voluntarily, with full knowledge of potential costs and benefits.” H. R. 3010, the Arbitration Fairness Act of 2007, sponsored by Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA), was also approved by a voice vote. H.R. 3010 would declare arbitration agreements unenforceable if it requires arbitration of an employment, consumer, or franchise dispute, or a dispute arising under any statute intended to protect civil rights or to regulate contracts or transactions between parties of unequal bargaining power.
07.15.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) joined with New Jersey Congressmen Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ) at a press conference today to announce the introduction of the Accountability in Deferred Prosecutions Act of 2008. The bill creates guidelines and oversight for deferred prosecution agreements. The agreements gained national attention after former Attorney General John Ashcroft gave testimony in front of Congresswoman Sánchez’ Judiciary Committee Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law on a lucrative corporate monitoring contract his firm received as a part of a deferred prosecution agreement. Congresswoman Sánchez made the following remarks. “Good morning, I’m Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, chair of the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law. I’m pleased to be here with my colleagues Bill Pascrell and Frank Pallone to announce the introduction of an important piece of legislation that will bring confidence and credibility to a corner of our system of justice that has gone largely unnoticed -- until recently. Four months ago, I held a hearing in the Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee on the appointment of corporate monitors in so-called “deferred prosecution” and “non-prosecution” agreements. In these agreements, prosecutors get companies to agree to change their practices, pay fines, and accept the supervision of a monitor to make sure that companies keep their promises. The problem is that there isn’t much of a system to decide when these agreements should be used, who chooses the monitor, how much they should be paid, and who holds the monitor accountable. Late last year, I was troubled to learn of what appeared to be a backroom, sweetheart deal when the U.S. Attorney from New Jersey, Christopher Christie appointed former Attorney General John Ashcroft, his previous boss, to serve as a corporate monitor and collect fees between $28 and $52 million. I was also concerned to learn from press accounts that Mr. Ashcroft was selected with no public notice and no bidding. When prosecutors pick people in this way, it raises doubts about the effectiveness of the monitoring process. It also raises questions about whether prosecutors are deferring prosecution because it is in the public interest -- or because it creates a rich payday for a friend. In response to the bad publicity, the Justice Department issued some guidelines on the eve of the Subcommittee hearing. But the guidelines do not go far enough and lack sufficient detail. Parties to these agreements continue to operate in a “Wild West” environment with no uniformity and little direction. That’s why we’re introducing the “Accountability in Deferred Prosecution Act of 2008.” This legislation will shine a light on a process that’s largely been operating in the dark. I want to thank my colleagues Bill Pascrell and Frank Pallone for their continued leadership on this issue. They deserve gratitude for their efforts to restore credibility to our system of justice. I know they will go into greater detail about the bill itself, so let me close by saying I think this is a good bill, an important bill, and that I plan on holding a legislative hearing on it soon.”
07.10.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, chairwoman of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following statement today at the subcommittee’s hearing on the politicization of the Department of Justice and allegations of selective prosecution. Former Deputy White House Chief of Staff Karl Rove did not appear at the hearing despite a congressional subpoena requesting his testimony. “According to letters we have received from his counsel, former Presidential Advisor Karl Rove has refused to appear today to answer questions in accordance with his obligations under the subpoena served on him, based on claims that “Executive Privilege confers upon him immunity” from even appearing to testify. “I am extremely disappointed and deeply concerned that Mr. Karl Rove has chosen to forego this opportunity to give his account of the politicization of the U.S. Department of Justice, including allegations regarding the prosecution of former Governor Don Siegelman. “I have given Mr. Rove’s written claims careful consideration, and I hereby rule that those claims are not legally valid, and that Mr. Rove is required pursuant to the subpoena to be here now and to answer questions. “I will presently entertain a motion to sustain that ruling, the grounds for which are set forth in writing and have been distributed to all members, but first I want to summarize the grounds for that ruling as follows: “First, the claims are not properly asserted. When a private party like Mr. Rove is subpoenaed by Congress and the Executive Branch objects on privilege grounds, the private party is obligated to respect the subpoena and the Executive Branch should go to court or otherwise pursue its privilege objection. “That is what happened in the AT&T case, and what should have happened here. But we have not received a statement from the President, or anyone at the White House, directly asserting these privilege and immunity claims to us. “Second, we are unaware of any proper legal basis for Mr. Rove’s refusal even to appear today as required by subpoena. The courts have made clear that no one, not even the President, is immune from compulsory process. That is what the Supreme Court ruled in U.S. v. Nixon and in Clinton v. Jones. “Neither Mr. Rove’s lawyer nor the White House has cited a single court decision to support the immunity claim as to former White House officials. “The proper course of action is for Mr. Rove to attend the hearing pursuant to subpoena, at which time any specific assertions of privilege can be considered on a question-by-question basis. As the Supreme Court explained more than a century ago, “[n]o man in this country is so high that he is above the law,” and “[a]ll the officers of the government, from the highest to the lowest, are creatures of the law and are bound to obey it.” “Third, the claims of absolute immunity directly contradict the conduct of this and past Administrations with respect to White House officials appearing before Congress. Only recently, current Vice-Presidential chief of staff David Addington testified before the House Judiciary Committee pursuant to subpoena, and former White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan testified without even receiving a subpoena. “In 2007, former White House officials Sara Taylor and Scott Jennings testified concerning the U.S. Attorney firings before the Senate Judiciary Committee pursuant to subpoena. Prior to this Administration, a CRS study shows that both present and former White House officials have testified before Congress at least 74 times since World War II. “Fourth, the claims of absolute immunity and the refusal to appear pursuant to subpoena and to answer questions directly contradict the behavior of Mr. Rove and his attorney themselves. “When Mr. Rove’s attorney was asked earlier this year by a media representative whether Mr. Rove would testify before Congress in response to a subpoena on the Siegelman matter, he responded “sure” by e-mail. “In addition, unlike Harriet Miers, Mr. Rove has spoken extensively in the media on the very subject the Subcommittee seeks to question him about: his role in the alleged politicization of the Justice Department, including the Siegelman case and the unprecedented firing of nine U.S. Attorneys in 2006. “Fifth, and finally, especially to the extent that Executive Privilege is the basis for the claims of immunity as to Mr. Rove, the White House has failed to demonstrate that the information we are seeking from him under the subpoena is covered by that privilege. “The courts have made clear that Executive Privilege applies only to discussions involving the President and to communications from or to presidential advisers “in the course of preparing advice for the President.” But the White House has maintained that the President never received any advice on, and was not himself involved in, the U.S. Attorney firings and related events. “The presidential communications privilege simply does not come into play here at all. “For all the foregoing reasons, as stated more fully in my written ruling, I hereby rule that Mr. Rove’s claims of immunity are not legally valid, and his refusal to comply with the subpoena and appear at this hearing to answer questions cannot be properly justified. “These reasons are without prejudice to one another and to any other defects that may, after further examination, be found to exist in the asserted claims.”
07.01.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswomen Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) and California Democratic Congressional Delegation Chair Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) called on the University of California’s new president to support a resolution to the labor dispute affecting over 20,000 UC service workers. Sánchez and Lofgren were joined by 27 other members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation. Their letter to UC President Mark Yudof follows below. “Dear President Yudof: “As Members of Congress who represent constituents who work at, receive health care from, and are educated at the ten universities and five medical centers that are a part of the University of California (UC) system, we warmly welcome you to our great state of California and to your new role as the President of the UC system. We are proud of the exemplary health care services, nationally-recognized educational opportunities, and cutting-edge research that UC provides. We look forward to working with you to ensure that UC remains a leader in the fields of health care, education, and research. “We know that the UC represents “our way forward,” improving the quality of life everyday for every Californian economically, artistically, socially, scientifically, and in matters of health, education, public safety and in countless other ways. UC is a model university system in many ways. However, we are very concerned about the ongoing ten month labor dispute involving 20,000 UC health workers and service employees. On the front lines of the UC system are 20,000 patient care and service workers who do everything from assisting in surgery to cleaning campus dorms. Yet, UC medical centers are losing experienced patient care staff to nearby hospitals where pay is dramatically higher. Further, service workers are earning poverty wages as low as $10 per hour. On average, other California hospitals and community colleges pay 25% more than does UC. “Wages this low leave many workers unable to meet basic needs and forced to seek additional employment. It is simply unacceptable that as many as 96% of all service workers at UC are eligible for some form of public assistance, including food stamps, WIC, public housing subsidies, and reduced lunch. Most important from the UC perspective, these low wages lead to high staff turnover, understaffing, and reliance on temporary workers, all of which can jeopardize quality of care and ultimately UC’s world renowned reputation. “Low wages hurt not only the workers but the communities in which they live. A recent report from the Center for Labor and Community Research documents how UC’s low wages negatively impact 55 cities and neighborhoods throughout California. Of the 55 communities surrounding UC’s ten campuses and five medical centers, average income is 15 percent lower and poverty is“ 50 percent higher. Our constituents are suffering enough with high gas prices, skyrocketing food costs, and inflation. It is not enough to simply provide jobsjobs must provide a secure economic future for workers and their families. “There is no clear reason why wages are so low. Our delegation has worked very hard to secure federal resources for UC, and we are concerned that these funds do not appear to benefit UC workers. Meanwhile, UC has posted record revenue. In 2007, UC had $22.4 billion in net assets, an 18% increase since 2005. UC Medical Center posted profits of $371 million in 2006, up from $243 million in 2005. Moody’s Investors Service has upgraded UC bond ratings, citing that it has a health and consistent operating performance, with operating cash flow in excess of $2 billion driven by a highly diversified revenue stream with no single revenue source exceeding 25% of total revenues a sizeable balance sheet that remains highly liquid, with $5.9 billion of unrestricted financial resources.” “These financial successes are strong enough to support executive pay increases, including salaries nearing $700,000 and bonuses approaching $100,000. So, why are the workers, those who keep the classrooms clean and patients cared for, not receiving a livable wage commensurate with wages at other California hospitals and colleges? Why have UC workers been in negotiations since August 2007? “According to the state-appointed, independent fact finder Carol Vendrillo, these low wages are a matter of priorities and not a lack of resources. She noted that “UC has demonstrated the ability to increase compensation when it fits with certain priorities without any demonstrable link to a state funding sources. It is time for UC to take a broader view of its priorities by honoring the important contribution that service workers make to the UC community and compensating them with wages that are in line with the competitive market rate.” “While we are well aware of the economic woes facing our state, we do not believe such challenges paralyze UC management’s ability to reallocate resources so that patient care and service staff are justly compensated for their labor. Neither patient care and service staff, nor those serviced by them, should bear the brunt of this budget crisis. They did not cause it and diminishing their economic prospects will do nothing to help the state rebuild its economy. “We share with you a commitment to the future of UC, the state of California and all of its residents. Your new arrival at UC provides a fresh opportunity to work with your staff to address UC health and service worker wages and benefits in contract negotiations fairly and quickly. These workers deserve better. We look forward to hearing from you regarding the progress of negotiations.” The letter was signed by the following U.S. Representatives: Linda Sánchez, Zoe Lofgren, Joe Baca, Xavier Becerra, Howard Berman, Lois Capps, Dennis Cardoza, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, Jane Harman, Michael Honda, Barbara Lee, Doris Matsui, George Miller, Grace Napolitano, Laura Richardson, Lucile Roybal-Allard, Loretta Sanchez, Adam Schiff, Brad Sherman, Hilda Solis, Fortney "Pete" Stark, Ellen Tauscher, Mike Thompson, Maxine Waters, Diane Watson, Henry Waxman, Lynn Woolsey.
06.26.2008	Washington, DC -- The Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), chaired by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, today voted 5-2 on a voice vote to authorize full committee Chairman John Conyers Jr. (D-MI) to issue a subpoena to Attorney General Michael Mukasey for documents in his possession. The documents include records concerning the Valerie Plame Wilson investigation, allegations of selective prosecution, the New Hampshire phone jamming scandal, and the replacement of Minnesota’s U.S. Attorney. The Committee is also requesting Office of Legal Counsel memos and enforcement reports from the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division. “The Department of Justice is trying to run out the clock on congressional investigations of possible misconduct,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “We have taken this step because the Department has indicated that it will not voluntarily comply with Congress’ constitutionally mandated oversight role. There are questions in various investigations that the American people deserve to have answered.” Congresswoman Sánchez and Chairman Conyers issued joint letters on May 9, 2008 and June 18, 2008, asking the Department to comply with the Judiciary Committee’s outstanding requests. Some of these requests are more than a year old. The June 18 letter indicated Congresswoman Sánchez and Chairman Conyers were open to negotiating a schedule for the delivery of documents, which would have allowed the Department ample time to prepare comprehensive reports. The Department did not respond to the June 18 letter. “We have been reasonable with the Attorney General, but all he has done is give us the brush-off. Apparently, things have not changed that much at the Department,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “It reminds me of the saying, ‘meet the new boss, same as the old boss.’” After the Subcommittee authorizes a subpoena, it can be issued by Chairman Conyers at any time. The subpoena authorization remains valid for the remainder of the congressional term.
06.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee hearing on H.R. 5267, the “Business Activity Tax Simplification Act of 2008.” “The growth of marketing and sales of goods and services over the Internet is just one example of our country’s movement toward an economic system not limited by state borders. But this borderless economy has led to confusion for some businesses regarding their tax obligation. “Although a state levies taxes on companies conducting business within the state, some companies have expressed concerns that they are unaware when their activities trigger state tax obligations. “These companies favor a physical presence standard for taxation. In essence, the standard would require businesses to pay taxes to states in which they own or lease property or effectively station employees. “On the opposing side are the state governments. They oppose such an approach, contending that in the future, because more transactions and services will occur online, the physical presence standard would eviscerate state revenues and promote tax avoidance schemes. “The question then becomes, how do you clarify the taxation standard while protecting state revenues and taxation authority? “The legislation we are examining today is H.R. 5267, the “Business Activity Tax Simplification Act of 2008.” This bill would prohibit state taxation of interstate commerce of out-of-state transactions involving all forms of property. The legislation would also establish the physical presence standard advocated by business interests. “This afternoon’s hearing serves a dual purpose. First, this hearing provides us with the opportunity to learn more about business activity taxes and under what circumstances they are levied. “Second, the testimony provided today will help us determine what role Congress has in this matter, and whether H.R. 5267 addresses the concerns of businesses that are expected to pay these types of taxes, while also protecting the interests of state governments to tax business activity within their borders. “To help us explore these issues, we have six witnesses divided into two panels for this hearing. On our first panel we have Representatives Rick Boucher from the 9th District of Virginia and Bob Goodlatte from the 6th District of Virginia, the authors of the legislation, who will discuss H.R. 5267. “For our second panel, I am pleased to have Mark Ducharme, Vice President and CFO of Monterey Boats; R. Bruce Johnson, Commissioner of the Utah State Tax Commission; Michael Petricone, Vice President of Technology Policy at the Consumer Electronics Association; and David C. Quam, Director of Federal Relations at the National Governors Association. “As we hear today’s testimony, let us remember that we must balance the interests of state governments to collect revenue with efforts to encourage business development.”
06.24.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) gave the following speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today, celebrating Monday's 36th anniversary of Title IX. The landmark legislation paved the way for greater women’s equality by banning discrimination on the basis of sex in education programs that receive federal funding. “A player dunked in a Sunday night basketball game. Most Americans might not think that's news, but when you tell them the player was the WNBA's Candace Parker, only the second woman to dunk in WNBA history, you get a different reaction. “Parker's slam dunk is just one more sign that Title IX is a slam dunk. “At its core, Title IX is a one-sentence law that bans sex discrimination in federally-funded education programs. “Title IX tore down the quotas in law and medical schools that would limit enrollment of women to 15 per year. “Today, more women than men are attending college. And in law schools, women are the majority. “In 1970, only 1 out of every 27 high school girls played varsity sports. “Today, that figure is two in five. And these girls are reaping the benefits that come from sports: lower rates of substance abuse, unintended pregnancies, breast cancer, and osteoporosis. “Title IX has made it possible for women to pursue any career they want. I am excited to see what today's little girls will do with the opportunities Title IX will provide them.”
06.19.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee and Subcommittee on Courts, Internet and Intellectual Property joint legislative hearing on H.R. 4854, the “False Claims Act Correction Act of 2007.” “We are here today to hear testimony from several witnesses on H.R. 4854, the “False Claims Act Corrections Act of 2007.” This legislation, introduced by Chairman Berman and Representative Sensenbrenner, would amend the False Claims Act, which was enacted in response to complaints about fraud and corruption against the United States government during the Civil War. “The central purpose of the False Claims Act has been to enlist private citizens in combating fraud against the United States. The Act’s qui tam provisions provide a clear process to assist and encourage private citizens not only to report fraud against the United States, but also to participate in investigating and prosecuting those who steal from the Federal Government. “Since 1986, filings under the False Claims Act have led to recovery for the United States Government of over $20 billion in taxpayer funds. Such a success should be commended. “However, over the course of the Act’s history, court decisions have led to conflicting interpretations that have limited the reach of the Act, discouraged qui tam relators from filing suits under the Act, and left billions of dollars vulnerable to fraud. The various interpretations, in fact, were noted earlier this year, when an Arkansas federal court invited Congress to take legislative action to clarify the False Claims Act, stating: “The Court sympathizes with anyone litigating under the False Claims Act. Perhaps Congress will elect at some point to give legislative attention to the FCA to resolve some of the still unresolved questions about the Act’s application.” “H.R. 4854 is a legislative response to the court’s plea for clarification of many issues and resolves the splits among the federal circuits. The bill provides that False Claims Act liability protects all federal funds. Among other things, the legislation defines what are recoverable damages and strengthens anti-retaliation protections. Finally, H.R. 4854 establishes a statute of limitations period and revitalizes the Government’s investigative powers under the Act. “At a time when billions of American tax-payer dollars are being poured into the hands of contractors in Iraq, this legislation is particularly timely. Often, fraud cannot be discovered unless a whistleblower comes forward, and this bill makes sure that whistleblowers have better tools to hold fraudulent contractors accountable.”
06.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 6126, the “Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act of 2008.” “During this Congress, this Subcommittee has held four hearings on issues and legislation related to the Federal Arbitration Act. We have heard from attorneys, professors, and individuals about unfortunate experiences with the arbitration process. “Erika Rice, a witness from our auto arbitration hearing, described her troubling situation of trying to remedy the purchase of a faulty car from an automobile dealer. Jordan Fogal, a witness from our consumer hearing, thought she had purchased her dream home, which turned out to be poorly constructed nightmare and a legal headache to repair. “And Deborah Williams, a witness from one of our legislative hearings, testified that while she thought she had a bright future after purchasing a Coffee Beanery Franchise, the extreme contractual requirements she could not afford to meet resulted in her losing the franchise and landing in financial ruin. “Although Ms. Rice, Ms. Fogal, and Ms. Williams initially experienced emotional distress during their predicaments, it was in seeking a cure to their problem that they experienced financial suffering. Each learned that mandatory arbitration agreements can disadvantage consumers and franchise owners and make their hope of a fair resolution nearly impossible. “Sadly, the mandatory arbitration clauses in their contracts prevented them from regaining their previous financial stability, and with it, their emotional security. “Unfortunately, the inclusion of arbitration clauses in long-term care facility contracts is even more emotionally heartbreaking. By 2040 the demand for long term care services will more than double. The long-term care industry is increasingly including pre-dispute arbitration clauses in its take-it-or-leave-it admission agreements for prospective residents. “And for desperate families who are unable to provide adequate care in the home setting, the need for an immediate placement for their loved one makes the “take-it-or-leave-it” choice, no choice at all. “Families who are in the midst of the heartbreaking decision to place a parent in a nursing home rarely have the time or wherewithal to fully and thoughtfully consider mandatory arbitration clauses. Simply dealing with the emotional and traumatic process of searching for a long term care facility makes it impossible for residents and their families to worry about the potential loss of their Constitutional right to a jury trial. What’s real and immediate is not some future dispute but proper care of a loved one. “The emotional toll and the sense of vulnerability when moving a loved one into the care of strangers at a nursing home is something I am all too familiar with. My father, who has been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, was recently placed into a nursing home, and one of the last things I wanted to worry about when searching for that perfect placement was whether he was forgoing his legal rights. Instead, I wanted to focus solely on the quality and range of services the facility would provide him. As it turned out, my family chose a facility that met our requirements but also had a mandatory arbitration clause in its contract. “I want to be clear that I am completely supportive of the principles of arbitration and the arbitration process. However, the process should remain fair. Parties to a contract should have the option to choose whether or not they arbitrate their disputes. “For these reasons, I introduced H.R. 6126, the “Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act of 2008,” to make pre-dispute, mandatory arbitration clauses in long-term care contracts unenforceable and to restore to residents and their families their full legal rights. This legislation would allow families and residents to maintain their peace of mind as they look for that perfect long-term care facility. “I am proud to note that H.R. 6126 is supported by several significant groups who advocate on behalf of seniors and consumers, including the AARP, which is providing a witness at this afternoon’s hearing, the National Senior Citizens Law Center, the Alzheimer’s Association, and the National Association for Consumer Advocates. Additionally, Senators Mel Martinez and Herb Kohl have introduced a similar bill in the Senate, S. 2838.”
06.05.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today introduced the Cure and Understanding through Research for Alzheimer’s (La CURA) Act of 2008 to increase funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct adequate Alzheimer’s research, outreach, and education. Every 71 seconds, someone develops Alzheimer’s disease, and by midcentury, someone will develop this disease every 33 seconds. This is important for all communities throughout the United States, but particularly for Hispanics, who, given long life spans and increasing growth within the American population, are projected to experience a six-fold increase of Alzheimer cases by 2050. “Every day, Latinos struggle disproportionately with chronic health conditions like Alzheimer’s, and our legislation ensures that Hispanics are provided the support they need and are encouraged to participate in clinical research to promote better care,” said Sen. Menendez (D-NJ). “We have to increase awareness, support and outreach for those confronted with Alzheimer’s disease and for their families so that they are aware and equipped to face this disease.” "This bill is near and dear to my heart because I have a family member who suffers from Alzheimer’s," Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. "Alzheimer’s is a heart-breaking disease that affects the entire family. We must do more to support families coping with Alzheimer’s as well as Alzheimer’s patients themselves. That means we need more education and outreach, especially in the Hispanic community where this disease is going to hit especially hard." La CURA will authorize increased funding to conduct adequate Alzheimer’s research, outreach, and education. The legislation helps expand the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Alzheimer’s education and outreach activities in all communities, including those with cultural concerns about participation in sensitive research like the collection of brain tissue and genetic information. La CURA will address deficiencies in research participation by encouraging increased Hispanic participation in NIH clinical trials and epidemiological studies, promoting identification of culturally competent care, and addressing delays in diagnosis and underutilization of services by Hispanic patients. This legislation has been endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association, the National Council of La Raza, the National Hispanic Council on Aging and the League of United Latin American Citizens.
06.05.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 3652, the “Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act of 2007.” “The headlines this past week have been particularly disturbing regarding our Nation’s auto manufacturing industry: “GM announced that it was closing four truck and SUV plants in North America." “Chrysler reported a 25% drop in sales for last month as compared to May 2007. “Likewise, Ford reported a 16% in drop sales for last month, and, in May, its F-150 pickup truck lost its status as best-selling vehicle in the United States for the first time since 1991. “The airline industry, with fuel costs almost tripling since 2000, also is cutting costs and trying to raise revenue. In addition to increasing fares, some airlines are now charging for checked baggage and seat selection and others are eliminating basic amenities. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal reported that United Airlines was planning to ground its less fuel-efficient planes and possibly furlough some of its employees. And while many of the principal airlines are well into their bankruptcy reorganization process, there has been another wave of bankruptcy filings by airlines in recent months including Aloha Airlines, ATA Airlines, Skybus Airlines, Frontier Airlines and Eos Airlines. “As the economic forecast of these companies becomes bleaker and bleaker, we are forced to consider the need to preserve jobs, employment benefits, and protections for retirees against the backdrop of how these issues would be treated under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. How do we protect the jobs and livelihood of American workers while preserving the economic viability of US companies? “As many of you know, last year our Subcommittee conducted two oversight hearings on how American workers and retirees are fairing in Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. “Our first hearing revealed a series of cases where chief executive officers of businesses in Chapter 11 receive outrageously large salaries and bonuses, while they simultaneously slash the wages, benefits and even jobs of workers who are the backbone of these businesses. It is clear that under these practices, Chapter 11 is becoming a place where the “rich are getting richer, while the poor are getting poorer.” “Then in September, we heard how Chapter 11 is being used by some businesses to bust unions and deprive retirees of hard-won wages and benefits, including pension and health insurance, that long-time employees had already factored into their retirement plans. Sam Gerdano, Executive Director of the nonpartisan American Bankruptcy Institute, observed, “In case after case, bankruptcy courts have applied Congressional intent favoring long-term rehabilitation to sweep aside wage and benefits concessions won at the bargaining table.” “Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code was originally enacted to give all participants an equal say in how a business struggling to overcome financial difficulties should reorganize. Unfortunately, this laudable goal does not reflect reality, especially for American workers. “I commend House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers for his leadership in addressing these problems by his introduction of H.R. 3652, the “Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act of 2007." This important bill will do much to preserve jobs and re-level the playing field for American workers in Chapter 11 business bankruptcy cases.”
06.04.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) joined 16 of her colleagues to found the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives today. The Congresswoman will serve as a vice chair of the caucus. Today’s announcement follows years of Congresswoman Sánchez fighting for equality. During years of Republican control of Congress, she successfully fought back attempts to amend the U.S. Constitution to ban same-sex marriage. Since the new Democratic Congress was sworn in last year, she has been on the front lines working to pass legislation combating hate crimes and banning workplace discrimination. Congresswoman Sánchez strongly supports the California State Supreme Court’s recent ruling allowing gay marriage. “If we truly believe in the nation’s founding documents then lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered individuals deserve equal rights,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Every American knows, deep down, that to deny another citizen the rights promised by our constitution is wrong.” The LGBT Equality Caucus is chaired by openly gay Representatives Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Barney Frank (D-MA). “LGBT equality is a moral obligation,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “There is hard work to be done to fulfill that obligation. This caucus will be dedicated to that effort.”
06.04.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) teamed with fellow representative Mike Michaud (D-ME), and U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Byron Dorgan (D-ND) today to introduce the Trade Reform Accountability Development Employment Act. The TRADE Act would mandate a congressional review of all existing trade agreements. The bill also provides a process for the United States to begin renegotiating those agreements to promote fairness. “For far too long we have been using trade agreements to help multinational corporations,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “This bill puts the emphasis back where it should be: providing quality jobs at home, while offering our global trade partners the opportunity for sustainable development.” As a Co-Chair of the House Trade Working Group, Congresswoman Sánchez had led House efforts against unfair and unproductive trade agreements. If the legislation is enacted, it would provide guidelines for the negotiation of future trade agreements and a review process for existing ones. The legislation places a high priority on labor and environmental standards, while ensuring national security will not be compromised. “We need to fundamentally change our trade priorities,” Rep. Sánchez said. “The current trade model has decimated American jobs and resulted in contaminated, and sometimes deadly, defective imports because not enough emphasis was placed on these policy areas.” The TRADE Act is supported by a number of organizations including the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, of which Congresswoman Sánchez is a member. Other organizations supporting the bill include the National Farmers Union, Friends of the Earth, United Methodist Church General Board of Church and Society, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, United Steelworkers, Americans for Democratic Action, Communications Workers of America, Global Trade Watch, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, National Family Farm Coalition, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers, Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy Action, International Union of Painters and Allied Trades and UNITE HERE.
05.22.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) issued the following statement today upon introducing the Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act of 2008. “I rise today to introduce the Fairness in Nursing Home Arbitration Act of 2008 to protect one of our most vulnerable groups: the elderly. This legislation is designed to make unenforceable all pre dispute, mandatory binding arbitration clauses in contracts between long term care facilities and their residents. Let me be clear: I am supportive of the principles of arbitration, so this legislation will not prohibit arbitration. Instead, it will simply ensure that residents have the choice whether to arbitrate a dispute after it has arisen. “The Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, which I chair, has held three hearings this term on issues related to the Federal Arbitration Act. During these hearings, witnesses testified that many businesses utilize arbitration agreements to the disadvantage of consumers by limiting constitutional rights, imposing unreasonable costs, and creating a system in which consumers are likely to lose even when they file a valid claim. “The long term care industry is one stark example where businesses draft take it or leave it admission agreements for prospective residents that include pre dispute mandatory arbitration clauses. A witness at the Subcommittee’s October 25, 2007 hearing on H.R. 3010, the Arbitration Fairness Act of 2007, testified that the “current system of binding mandatory arbitration employed by nursing homes creates a playing field that is tilted in favor of nursing homes and against frail, vulnerable residents who suffer terribly at the hands of their caregivers. Sadly these residents are, all too often, the victims of abuse by their caregivers. They should not be further abused by an arbitration system that dispenses anything but justice.” “After hearing several stories of abhorrent conditions in nursing homes and how arbitration clauses have effectively silenced residents who want to improve those conditions, I am introducing this legislation to make unenforceable pre dispute mandatory arbitration clauses and to restore to residents and their families their full legal rights. Residents and their families will no longer have to worry about losing their right to a jury trial when they are going through the emotional and traumatic process of searching for long-term care facilities and then choosing the perfect one. I understand the emotional toll and the sense of vulnerability when moving a loved one and his belongings into the care of strangers at a nursing home. My father was recently placed into a nursing home, and one of the last things I wanted to worry about was whether he was forgoing his legal rights when he entered it. Instead, I wanted to focus solely on the quality and range of services the facility would provide him. This legislation will allow families and residents to retain their legal rights while they look for that perfect long-term care facility. “Several groups, including the AARP, the Alzheimer’s Association, the National Senior Citizens Law Center, and many others who advocate on behalf of the elderly and consumers, support this legislation. Already a similar bipartisan bill has been introduced in the Senate. I am optimistic that Congress can soon send a bill to the President for his signature so that nursing home residents will retain their choice whether to arbitrate a dispute. “I urge my colleagues to join me, Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, John Conyers, Hank Johnson, Dennis Kucinich, and William Delahunt, and take the important step of cosponsoring this bipartisan legislation.”
05.22.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation today that would criminalize cyberbullying by giving prosecutors the ability to punish those who use the internet, or other electronic means, to coerce, intimidate, harass or cause other substantial emotional distress. Congressman Kenny Hulshof (R-MO) is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the bill. Cyberbullying has made national headlines in recent months following the suicide of St. Louis teenager Megan Meier. Meier made friends with a young man named Josh online. Their friendship soon deteriorated with Josh telling Megan “the world would be better off without you.” Following Megan’s suicide, investigations revealed “Josh” to be an alias created by the mother of one of Megan’s former friends. “Without a federal law making cyberbullying a crime, cyberbullies are going unpunished,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “In the Meier case we saw an adult allegedly engaging in sick, demented behavior with tragic consequences. This bill sends a clear message to anyone who commits cyberbullying: online actions will have severe offline consequences.” At the time of Megan’s death, cyberbullying was not considered a crime. The adult responsible for the hoax went unpunished. Recently, federal charges were filed under criminal statutes dealing with wire fraud, but federal law fails to specifically address cyberbullying. “This bill establishes a fair legal standard,” Congressman Hulshof said. “It sets needed limits for online conduct while protecting free speech. Megan Meier's story is tragic and heart-breaking. It is my hope that this case can yield common sense reforms that help prevent something like this from ever happening again." “Bullying is poisonous to a child’s mental and physical health,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “We need to give prosecutors the ability to protect kids by punishing people who abuse the internet to bully. Congresswoman Sánchez represents California’s 39th district. Since her election to Congress she has developed, and helped pass, legislation protecting children online, including a bill providing for investments in internet safety education programs. She is the sponsor of H.R. 3132, the Safe Schools Improvement Act, and H.R. 3438, the Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act. Both bills would ensure that schools could use existing federal funding to address school-based bullying and harassment, whether in person or online.
05.16.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez welcomed yesterday’s indictment of Lori Drew, a Missouri citizen, for her part in a “cyberbullying” case involving 13-year-old Megan Meier. Drew allegedly posed as a 16-year-old boy on the internet social networking site Myspace, sending Meier a series of insulting messages. Meier subsequently committed suicide. Drew has been charged with one count of conspiracy and three counts of accessing protected computers without authorization to obtain information to inflict emotional distress on the girl. “I applaud the U.S. Attorney for this indictment fighting cyberbullying,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “This case had tragic consequences, and we ought to have laws that punish the people who push kids to such extremes.” No state or federal laws directly criminalizing cyberbullying existed at the time of Drew's alleged crime. The case was filed in Los Angeles, where Myspace’s servers are based. “I am impressed with the federal prosecutor’s creativity bringing these charges forward. We need to give prosecutors clearer laws they can use to go after those who engage in cyberbullying,” Rep. Sánchez said. “I am hopeful the federal case will help put to rest the idea that bullying and harassment are harmless youthful pranks. Our laws do not adequately protect kids online, and that has got to change. ” Congresswoman Sánchez represents California’s 39th district. She is a vocal supporter of children’s online safety legislation. Since her election to Congress she has developed, and helped pass, legislation protecting children online. Rep. Sánchez is currently working to develop a bill that would allow law enforcement to prosecute those who cyberbully. She is also the sponsor of H.R. 3132, the Safe School Improvement Act and H.R. 3438, the Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act. Both bills would ensure that schools could use existing federal funding to address school-based bullying and harassment, whether in person or online.
05.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee hearing on “Allegations of Selective Prosecution Part II: The Erosion of Public Confidence in our Federal Justice System” “During a March 6, 2007 Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee hearing on a measure regarding the appointment of U.S. Attorneys, we posed the following question: Are important decisions about our justice system being made for political reasons? Seeking answers, the Judiciary Committee has investigated whether the Department of Justice has allowed politics to seep into its decision-making. The investigation initially focused on the firings of several United States Attorneys for their reluctance to bring politically-based prosecutions. Gathered evidence led the Judiciary Committee to look into other activities of the Justice Department. Namely, whether the Justice Department’s hiring of career employees was based on the illegal criterion of political affiliation. “We also began an examination of whether the Justice Department brought Federal prosecutions based on political motivations. Today, we continue this investigation and focus on another aspect of the Justice Department’s actions. If the Justice Department prosecuted individuals for political expediency, did it refrain from prosecuting individuals for political purposes? “Today’s hearing is the second joint hearing by the Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee, and the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Subcommittee, on allegations of selective prosecution. At our first joint hearing in October 2007, we heard testimony about Democrats being disproportionately targeted for Federal prosecutions under the current Administration. This joint hearing will focus on limited Federal prosecutions against Republican-leaning individuals and groups. “Under this Administration, the Department of Justice has investigated allegations of voter fraud, but has seemingly turned a blind eye to investigating allegations of vote suppression. On election day in 2002, Republican party members and a Republican political operative impeded the New Hampshire Democratic Party and the Manchester Fire Fighters Association in their efforts to get out the vote. “A Department of Justice investigation into the incident led to four individuals being indicted or pleading guilty for their involvement in suppressing voter turnout. However, there are allegations that senior Justice Department officials limited the inquiry, possibly to prevent the investigators from determining whether White House officials and top Republican National Committee personnel were involved. “As a result, the Judiciary Committee was requested to investigate allegations of vote suppression in New Hampshire. “We do not know if the investigators were able to determine why there were many phone calls between one of the indicted individuals, James Tobin, and the White House on the day of the election. However, we have learned that the RNC has paid the legal fees to defend Mr. Tobin, a decision apparently approved by the White House. If there are indications that more senior officials in the RNC or even the White House were involved, why did the Justice Department appear to limit the investigation? “We also have learned that the Justice Department did not fully investigate another troublesome allegation of vote suppression. Media reports in 2004 revealed that employees of Sproul and Associates, a Republican-connected voter registration firm, were apparently trained to falsely identify themselves as non-partisan and then register Republicans to vote while discouraging Democratic-leaning individuals from registering to vote. “For those Democratic-leaning voters who completed registration cards, Sproul employees in Pennsylvania, Oregon, and West Virginia allegedly destroyed those registration cards. Although these activities are clearly aimed to suppress the Democratic vote and to favor Republican candidates, the Justice Department quickly determined that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute Sproul and Associates. If the media alleged vote suppression efforts by a Republican-connected firm, why did the Justice Department not fully investigate these activities? “On three separate occasions, the Judiciary Committee has requested from the Attorney General answers to a series of questions and documents about the Justice Department’s handling of these cases. The Justice Department has failed to address our specific questions and has only provided cursory responses. “We have also invited the Department of Justice to send a witness to testify at this hearing, but it has chosen not to present a witness. That is unfortunate because the American people need to be assured that political considerations play no role in determining whether a Justice Department investigation is pursued or whether an individual is prosecuted. “Finally, although some may allege that we are wasting time holding this hearing, I question whether those critics would tell the American people that an investigation into efforts to suppress their right to vote is a waste of time. The American people want to be secure in the knowledge that the Federal Government will protect their right to vote and will prosecute individuals who seek to limit that constitutional right. There is simply no place for partisan politics in a prosecutor’s decision to move forward with a prosecution or to end an investigation. “Accordingly, I look forward to the testimony of our witnesses today.”
05.08.2008	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez' State Criminal Alien Assistance Program Reimbursement Act, H.R. 1512, passed the House unanimously today on a voice vote. The legislation will help provide millions of dollars for law enforcement agencies by allowing states and localities to be reimbursed for some of the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens before and during trial. The bill now goes to the Senate, where companion legislation has been introduced by Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA). “Passing this bill means we are no longer going to force states and localities to bear the brunt of failures in federal immigration policy,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “States and localities are going to get more chances for reimbursement, which means communities will have more money to invest in public safety.” The legislation responds to limitations placed on SCAAP payments by the Department of Justice in 2003. The limitations stipulated that states and localities could only be reimbursed for the cost of incarcerating a criminal alien if the alien is eventually convicted of a crime, making many of the costs associated with pre-trial detention ineligible for reimbursement. The changes resulted in hundreds of millions of lost dollars for local and state law enforcement agencies, forcing significant program cuts. “It is ridiculous that states and counties have been forced to cut public safety programs, and even release suspects early, because public safety budgets are gobbled up by these incarceration costs,” Rep. Sánchez said. “This bill is going to give a boost to local law enforcement agencies, freeing them to invest in the training and equipment they need to keep us all safe.” The legislation is a result of conversations between Congresswoman Sánchez and law enforcement agencies and their officers on how to fix this problem. H.R. 1512 has 60 Democratic and Republican cosponsors and is endorsed by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition, the National Association of Counties, the California State Association of Counties, the Los Angeles Sheriffs Department, and numerous law enforcement organizations, including the National Sheriff's Association, the California State Sheriffs' Association, the Sheriffs’ Association of Texas, and the Virginia Sheriffs' Association.
05.06.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) made the following remarks during debate today on the floor of the House of Representatives on H.R. 1512, the SCAAP Reimbursement Protection Act of 2007. Congresswoman Sánchez re-introduced the legislation last year, which was unanimously approved by the House Judiciary Committee in October. "Thank you, Mr. Chair, "Immigration is probably the signature federal policy issue. Try as they might, states simply can’t fix failures in federal immigration policy on their own. But when we fall down on the jobs, states, cities, and counties bear the burden for an immigration system that simply doesn't work. "While Congress is working on a comprehensive solution to our broken immigration system, we must not forget about the local governments who are paying an extremely high cost as a result of our inaction. "In 1994, Congress passed the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) to reimburse states and localities for the arrest, incarceration and transportation costs associated with criminal aliens averting a tidal wave of expenses that could have overwhelmed those state and local budgets. "However, in 2003, the Department of Justice reinterpreted the SCAAP statute and caused a drastic drop in every state’s reimbursement. Now states no longer receive reimbursements unless 1) the criminal alien is convicted of a felony or two misdemeanors; and 2) the arrest and conviction occurred in the same year. To add insult to injury, President Bush has zeroed out SCAAP in his budget proposals for the last six years. "This means that State and local governments are left to pick up the tab. Every dollar reduction in SCAAP reimbursements is one less dollar law enforcement agencies have to hire new officers, provide essential training, make critical equipment purchases, and detain other - perhaps more violent - inmates. "Following the SCAAP funding cuts in 2003, the LA County Sherrif's Department implemented a new “early release” policy for inmates convicted of misdemeanors. This means the neighborhoods I represent in Southern California are at risk. Sadly, these communities are not alone."
05.01.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 5913, the Protecting Americans from Unsafe Foreign Products Act. The bill would level the playing field between Americans hurt by unsafe foreign products, and foreign product manufacturers who were previously able to avoid accountability because of ambiguities in the law. The bill is sponsored by Congresswoman Sánchez. “I have been alarmed by the steady stream of defective, foreign-manufactured products flooding our marketplace. From the millions of toys recalled because of lead paint to heparin, the tainted blood thinner that caused at least 81 deaths and scores of injuries, it has become increasingly clear that our health and welfare have been compromised by foreign-made products. “I am also concerned that foreign manufacturers have gained an unfair advantage over U.S. manufacturers because foreign manufacturers have avoided liability for defective products in our marketplace. Because of the difficulties associated with serving process on and establishing jurisdiction over foreign manufacturers, many Americans harmed by defective foreign-made products never get their day in court. That is why I introduced H.R. 5913, the Protecting Americans from Unsafe Foreign Products Act. “Specifically, this legislation would allow American consumers harmed by foreign defective products to obtain personal jurisdiction over foreign manufacturers by serving foreign manufacturers with process where they reside, are found, have an agent, or transact business. H.R. 5913 would also help eliminate the unfair competitive advantage enjoyed by foreign manufacturers and ensure that they can be held accountable in U.S. courts for injuries consumers suffer as a result of defective products. “Finally, H.R. 5913 would pressure foreign manufacturers to improve the quality and integrity of their products. When foreign manufacturers are held accountable under the tort system, they will be deterred from making dangerous products in the future. “At one time, products exported to the U.S. market were known to meet the highest health, safety, and quality standards in the world. Many manufacturers had two production lines: one for products to be sent to the U.S., and one for all others. As our trade has expanded and our inspections have become more lax, this is no longer the case. The deluge of defective products entering our markets has demonstrated that neither the Consumer Product Safety Commission nor the Food and Drug Administration have effectively done their job. I look forward to the day when, once again, we can be proud that only the highest quality, safest products line the shelves of American stores. “I support the recent congressional efforts to strengthen the CPSC and the FDA so that they have the tools and resources they need to adequately protect American consumers. However, the approaches currently considered by the House and Senate do not address the barriers individual consumers face once they have been injured by a foreign manufactured product. “Legislation such as H.R. 5913 fills an important void of facilitating accountability of foreign manufacturers that injure consumers with defective products. “I want to thank Chairman Conyers, Representatives Zoe Lofgren, Melvin Watt, Steve Cohen, Hank Johnson, Betty Sutton and Rep. Raúl Grijalva for cosponsoring H.R. 5913. The legislation is also supported by U.S. PIRG, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, Public Citizen, and the Center for Justice and Democracy. “H.R. 5913 will aid in ensuring the safety and health of American consumers. I very much look forward to hearing from our witnesses.”
04.30.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- The House Judiciary Committee today passed, H.R. 5593, the Congressional Review Act Improvement Act, on a unanimous voice vote. The bill is sponsored by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law. The bill will reduce government waste by reducing duplicative paperwork, and relieving some of the administrative burdens currently mandated by the Congressional Review Act. Under the new law, Congress will receive a weekly list of new rules from the Comptroller General, instead of requiring government agencies to submit separate copies of each rule to both the House and Senate. “As the law stands now, Congress asks that materials be submitted, housed and printed at four different government entities,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “Doing all of that at one location is going to save taxpayers money, and ‘green’ the government by reducing paper usage.” The bill does not alter Congress’ power to review Executive branch agency rules under the Congressional Review Act.
04.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) introduced legislation today to make it easier for consumers to seek compensation for damages resulting from faulty products made overseas. The Protecting Americans from Unsafe Foreign Products Act will be the subject of a legislative hearing on Thursday in the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, chaired by Congresswoman Sánchez. The bill would make it easier for consumers to bring into American courts foreign manufacturers who export defective products. Under the new law, Americans could serve foreign manufacturers with documents where they reside, are found, have an agent or transact business. The changes relax cumbersome requirements which sometimes required Americans to travel to foreign countries or translate documents simply to initiate the suit. “If you or your family have been hurt by an imported product, you should not have to jump through hoops to hold the responsible foreign manufacturer accountable,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “This bill shows we stand behind American consumers and not the foreign manufacturers that produce defective products that are flooding the U.S. market.” Congresswoman Sánchez began work on the bill in November 2007 after holding a hearing on imported toys recalled because of lead paint contamination and other dangerous defects. Recently, heparin, an imported blood thinner, caused 81 deaths and many more injuries. In addition to highlighting the hurdles facing consumers who seek to hold foreign manufacturers accountable, the hearing also revealed that while the United States is opening its borders to increased free trade, staff shortages at the Consumer Product Safety Commission are preventing effective screening of imported products. "It's important that foreign manufacturers are held to the same product safety standards we expect American manufacturers to meet," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "If we fail to do this, then we're giving foreign companies an advantage, making it more difficult for domestic industry to compete and keep jobs in America." House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI), Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) are original cosponsors of the Protecting Americans from Unsafe Foreign Products Act.
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON -- The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), favorably reported two bills unanimously today. The subcommittee approved H.R. 5539, the Congressional Review Act Improvement Act, sponsored by subcommittee chairwoman Rep. Linda Sánchez, and H.R. 4044, the National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Act of 2008, sponsored by Rep. Janice Schakowsky (D-IL) and Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA). The National Guard and Reservists Debt Relief Act makes it easier for National Guard members and Reservists to obtain bankruptcy relief if they have been on active duty for at least 60 days following September 11, 2001. This protection continues to apply for 18 months after the service member leaves active duty. The Act excuses these members from the burdensome bankruptcy “means test,” which requires debtors to prove their inability to pay their debts. “If a member of our armed services is forced into bankruptcy because they're fighting a war, the bankruptcy process should at least be fair,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Patriotism is about supporting these men and women both while they are on active duty and once they return home, and this bill does that.” The Congressional Review Act Improvement Act, also reported favorably by the subcommittee, would cut government waste by reducing duplicative paperwork. Under the law, Congress will receive a weekly list of new rules from the Comptroller General, instead of requiring government agencies to submit separate copies of each rule. “This is a good government and environmentally friendly measure,” Sánchez said. “It saves taxpayers' money and saves our forests.” Subcommittee approval of the bill comes two days after the celebration of Earth Day.
04.24.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood), Co-Chair of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, gave the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives today in honor of Workers Memorial Day. Worker's Memorial Day, which coincides with the anniversary of the creation of OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, commemorates all workers who were killed, inured, or made ill on the job each year. “I rise this morning to honor the thousands of American workers injured, sickened, and killed each year in this nation. “Next Monday, April 28, is Workers Memorial Day, dedicated to remembering workers whose lives are lost on the job. “Sixteen workers are killed on the job every day in America. Every. Day. “And these are not just workers in highly dangerous professions, but workers from every profession you can imagine, from mechanics to teachers to newspaper carriers. “Instead of addressing this crisis in worker safety, the Bush Administration continues to underfund the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA. “Like an old dog who’s lost its teeth, OSHA doesn’t scare anyone. It hasn’t improved safety and it doesn’t protect workers. “Today, I stand with families who have lost loved ones on the job. “Tomorrow, I continue working with my colleagues in the Labor and Working Families Caucus to strengthen OSHA. “American workers deserve to be safe while earning a living and contributing to this great country. And we must do more to ensure they are safe.”
04.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) introduced the “Pathways Advancing Career Training Act” today to help unemployed and underemployed women gain access to training for good jobs that can support a family. The PACT Act would provide assistance to state programs that train women for employment in high-skill, high-wage fields where they are often underrepresented. Congresswoman Sánchez' bill would support programs that address barriers to employment for single parents, displaced homemakers, and divorced and widowed women re-entering the workforce after extended periods of time at home caring for family members. “Nearly 7.5 million U.S. children living in poverty reside in female-headed households, and we have a responsibility to help those most in need,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “If we are committed to the idea that every woman and child should have access to the American dream, we need programs to provide good job training. These programs provide women with a better economic future.” At current rates, the U.S. will require 15 million workers with postsecondary training in the next two decades, but will add just 3 million workers with this level of training. This bill offers a pragmatic solution to this looming skilled labor shortage by targeting a relatively untapped section of the current and potential workforce. Congresswoman Sánchez is the only Democrat from the greater Los Angeles area who serves on the House Committee on Education and Labor. She co-founded the Labor and Working Families Caucus and, as a former union leader, Congresswoman Sánchez has been a consistent champion for women in the workforce.
04.02.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- The House Judiciary Committee today unanimously passed Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ (D-Lakewood) bill, the Professional Athlete Immigration Act (H.R. 5060). The bill allows professional athletes to extend their work visas, ensuring they can remain with their professional teams, and continue contributions to their surrounding communities. The bill changes existing law by allowing foreign-born professional athletes to petition for visa extensions every five years. The bill would ensure that foreign athletes in their prime are allowed to continue performing for U.S. teams. Approval of the visa extensions would still be determined by the Department of Homeland Security. “While they are here, these athletes serve as role models, and cultural ambassadors in our communities, but there is no reason to force them to become permanent residents if they plan to leave at the end of their careers,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “This bill ensures they have the ability to stay as long as they remain contributors to their respective teams and local communities.” The bill has been endorsed by Major and Minor League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, and the relevant players associations.
04.01.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 4044, legislation that would give certain servicemembers relief from some bankruptcy requirements. Specifically, the bill would amend the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 to exempt from the means test in bankruptcy cases, for a limited period, qualifying reserve-component members who, after September 11, 2001, are called to active duty or to perform a homeland defense activity for not less than 60 days. “Since September 11th, 2001, nearly half a million members of the National Guard and Reserve have been called to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. As you might imagine, these lengthy and often unanticipated deployments not only disrupt the lives of these servicemembers and their families, but can also lead to financial hardship. It’s estimated, for example, that up to 26 percent of National Guard members who are deployed experience money problems as a direct result of their deployment. “You may also recall the very poignant testimony that we received at our hearing last May from a chapter 13 debtor about her financial circumstances. She explained how after her husband, a member of the Army reserve, was called to active duty and deployed to Iraq the family income decreased by more than $1,000 per month, which, among other reasons, caused her and her husband to seek bankruptcy relief. “One would think that our bankruptcy law would honor the special contributions of these brave men and women who make so many sacrifices to protect our Nation. Sadly, it does not. “Exactly three years ago this very month, President Bush signed into law the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, which contained some of the harshest changes to consumer bankruptcy law in more than 25 years. “One of the more draconian changes is the so-called “means test,” which requires debtors to prove their inability to repay their debts through a complex bureaucratic maze at the risk of having their cases dismissed for being an abuse of the system. “The means test is particularly unfair to National Guard and Reserve members both as a matter of principle and practice. Here’s just one example. Servicemembers, while serving in Iraq or Afghanistan, typically receive higher compensation in the form of combat pay, while they incur fewer living expenses. When they return to the United States, however, they receive less pay and their expenses increase. “The means test, nevertheless, requires a debtor to calculate his or her income based on the average monthly income that he or she received during the six-month period preceding the filing date of the bankruptcy case, rather than the debtor’s current income. As a result of the means test, a servicemember could appear to have higher net income and therefore be at risk of having his or her case dismissed for abuse. To overcome this presumption, the servicemember must then demonstrate “special circumstances,” which can be a burdensome undertaking. “This is not the way our consumer bankruptcy laws should work. Our servicemembers deserve better. “Today we are examining a proposed legislative remedy to this issue. H.R. 4044 would amend the Bankruptcy Code and create a narrow exception to the means test for a National Guard or Reserve Member if he or she is on active duty or performs a homeland defense activity after September 11, 2001 for at least 60 days, and for the first six months after completion of such service. “Accordingly, I very much look forward to hearing from our witnesses. In particular, I commend my colleagues Representatives Schakowsky and Rohrabacher for their leadership on this issue.”
03.31.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today honoring the life and work of civil rights leader and labor organizer César Chávez. “Today we celebrate the life and work of César Chávez. This day serves as a reminder that our country should be committed to the idea that every worker deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. “César Chávez knew that truth. He led the fight for fair wages and benefits for thousands of workers as the president of the United Farm Workers. He worked tirelessly to combat poverty and empower the most vulnerable and exploited working families in our society. “His work organizing a massive and successful boycott of California table grapes, to petition for higher wages, shows us that when people unite in non-violent protest they can do powerful things. “I am proud to count myself as a fellow union member. César Chávez’s legacy is a union movement equipped with the moral standing necessary to truly fight in the interest of working Americans who want to fulfill the American dream.”
03.12.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) welcomed today's unanimous passage of H.R. 5060, the Professional Athlete Immigration Act of 2008, in the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration. Congresswoman Sánchez, who serves on the subcommittee, authored the bill which allows professional athletes to extend their work visas. Under current law, athletes are required to become a permanent legal resident after ten years, or leave the country. The bill would change the law, allowing foreign-born professional athletes working in the United States to petition for visa extensions every five years. Approval of the visa extensions would still be determined by the Department of Homeland Security. “We appreciate athletes for the things they do on and off the field,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Athletes are cultural ambassadors, role models, and philanthropists in our communities. They deserve the chance to stay and continue those contributions.” The bill has been endorsed by Major and Minor League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, and the relevant players associations.
03.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee oversight hearing on “Deferred Prosecution: Should Corporate Settlements Be Without Guidelines?” Former Attorney General John Ashcroft, the recipient of a corporate monitoring contract, testified at the hearing. “I have called today’s hearing to shed light on the use of pre-trial prosecution agreements in corporate crime cases -- a growing practice that has so far been operating mostly in the shadows, without guidelines, and without oversight. Today’s hearing is not being held with prejudice for or against deferred prosecution and non-prosecution agreements, but rather, with concern about the number of unanswered questions surrounding them. “The concept of deferred prosecution originated as a rehabilitation option for non violent juvenile and drug offenders. After prosecutors file an indictment, the prosecution is put on hold in exchange for commitments by the offender to reform and provide restitution. If the offender meets the obligations in the agreement, prosecutors may ask a judge to dismiss the indictment. “In the past six years, the Justice Department has increasingly relied upon a similar tool for white collar crimes, usually involving private corporations. In such cases, an independent corporate monitor is often hired to determine whether the target corporation has complied with the obligations in the deferred prosecution or non-prosecution agreement. “Late last year, I was troubled to learn of what appeared to be a backroom, sweetheart deal where New Jersey U.S. Attorney Christopher Christie appointed John Ashcroft, the former Attorney General, to serve as an independent corporate monitor and collect fees between $28 and $52 million. I was also concerned to learn from press accounts that Mr. Ashcroft was selected with no public notice and no bidding and that he had to use considerable time to prepare for the assignment and learn more about the business that he was contracted to monitor. “When I continue to investigate the issue of deferred prosecution agreements and the appointment of independent corporate monitors, I discovered that the parties to these agreements were operating in a “Wild West” environment with no laws and no Justice Department guidelines. “Less than 24 hours before today’s hearing, the Department sent us a memo mapping out some guidance with regard to the selection and use of monitors. While this may be a good start, uncertainty still remains as to how monitors should be selected and how these agreements should be structured. “The absence of standards governing how independent corporate monitors are selected has resulted in a hodgepodge of approaches across jurisdictions. For example, in several agreements, prosecutors selected the monitor, typically after consulting with the corporation. In others, the corporation selected the candidate. Additionally, a few agreements provide for collaboration among the corporation, regulators, and prosecutors in the selection. Finally, in at least three agreements, a court played a significant role in the monitor selection process. “Furthermore, the current system lacks guidelines to direct how independent corporate monitors conduct oversight of the corporation once they have been selected. Most monitors are granted broad powers to gather information, institute policies, and oversee compliance. For example, in one matter, the monitor had the power to “require any personnel action, including termination,” regarding individuals “who were engaged in or were responsible for the illegal conduct described in the Information.” In essence, the agreement allowed the monitor to act as the prosecutor, judge, and jury for these employees. “While uncertainty is common in many aspects of deferred prosecution agreements, one thing remains certain: the government has tremendous leverage over a corporation entering into an agreement. Corporations facing criminal prosecution have an unfair choice. They can either risk a conviction and perhaps even dissolution after trial or be coerced into accepting the terms and the monitor that a prosecutor unilaterally believes are appropriate. “Unfortunately, because of a lack of transparency in many aspects of deferred prosecution agreements, we still don’t know the full scope of this issue. On January 10th, Chairman Conyers, Congressman Pascrell, and I sent a letter to the Justice Department requesting that the Department disclose all deferred prosecution agreements and the individuals selected as monitors. It has been two months since our request and we have yet to receive a response. “While we patiently await the Department’s disclosure of information, this hearing serves as a critical start to bringing deferred prosecution agreements and the appointment of monitors out from behind the shadows. Accordingly, I look forward to probing these issues further and considering whether legislation in this area is appropriate.”
03.06.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 5312, the Automobile Arbitration Fairness Act of 2008. Congresswoman Sánchez is the author of the bill. “During the last session, this Subcommittee held two hearings focusing on arbitration. Our first hearing in June provided this Subcommittee with a basic knowledge of the history of arbitration and its benefits and problems. We revisited arbitration during a hearing in October at which we reviewed H.R. 3010, “the Arbitration Fairness Act of 2007," authored by Congressman Hank Johnson. During those hearings we learned that an increasing number of businesses and employers have begun to utilize arbitration to the detriment of others, especially consumers. “Today, we hold this legislative hearing on H.R. 5312, the “Automobile Arbitration Fairness Act of 2008" to respond to a significant problem with arbitration, the take-it-or-leave-it approach of pre-dispute binding mandatory arbitration clauses. This legislation targets certain arbitration clauses solely related to motor vehicle purchase or lease contracts. It would grant to automotive consumers what Congress extended to motor vehicle dealers in 2002: protection from mandatory binding arbitration clauses. “Since then, automobile manufacturers have been prohibited from requiring automobile dealers to accept pre-dispute, mandatory binding arbitration clauses in their franchise contracts. It seems only fair that consumers receive the same protections afforded to automobile dealers. “H.R. 5312 would give consumers the choice to settle a dispute related to their purchase or lease of a motor vehicle through arbitration or in court. As a result of this simple change, consumers would be able to consider the advantages and disadvantages of choosing to arbitrate with the specifics of their own case in mind. And they could negotiate with the dealer or financier the terms of the arbitration agreement should they decide to arbitrate. Most importantly, arbitration could still be an avenue to resolve a dispute, but one to which all the parties would agree to voluntarily, fairly, and with full knowledge of the potential costs and benefits. “Today we gather to hear testimony from several individuals with knowledge of the arbitration process in consumer automobile contracts. I want to emphasize that today’s testimony is very important for our understanding of the legislation. Accordingly, I look forward to hearing today’s testimony and welcome a thorough discussion of the issues and legislation.”
02.26.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee oversight hearing on the implementation of the U.S. Department of Justice’s special counsel regulations. “In response to the Watergate scandal and President Richard Nixon's executive dismissal of Independent Special Prosecutor Archibald Cox, the independent counsel provisions were originally enacted as Title VI of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978. “Specifically, the special prosecutor/independent counsel provisions were adopted to deal with the unusual circumstance of an inherent conflict of interest that would arise when the Attorney General and the President, while supervising the Department of Justice and federal prosecutors, would control the investigation and possible prosecution of allegations of their own criminal wrongdoing, or other high-level officials in their Administration. “During the nearly 21-year span of the law, 20 Independent Counsels were appointed at a cost of approximately $230 million to the American people. “When the independent counsel law expired, regulations were promulgated concerning the appointment of outside, temporary counsels. According to the regulations, such “Special Counsels” are to be appointed by the Attorney General to conduct investigations and possible prosecutions of certain sensitive criminal matters where the Department may have a conflict of interest and where the circumstances determine that such an appointment would be in the public interest. “These regulations make clear that special counsels should come from outside of the government. They also provide that at the conclusion of his or her work, the special counsel must produce a confidential report explaining the prosecutions or the decision not to prosecute. “Additionally, at the conclusion of the investigation, the Attorney General is obligated to notify the Chairmen and Ranking Minority Members of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. This notification is essential if Congress is to fulfill its oversight duties and its Constitutional obligation to provide a check on Executive Branch actions. “Recently these special counsel regulations have been all but ignored. Despite several opportunities to do so, Attorneys General in the Bush Administration have yet to utilize the special counsel regulations. In the CIA leak matter, U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald was given the title of “Special Counsel,” but did not come from outside of government and was not required to abide by the Department’s special counsel regulations. The practical implication of this arrangement was that Mr. Fitzgerald had significantly more power and less supervision than a Special Counsel under the regulations. “Similarly, with regard to the Detainee Interrogation Videotapes investigation, Attorney General Mukasey has appointed Assistant U.S. Attorney John Durham to be the Acting U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. While Mr. Durham’s qualifications and reputation are admirable, as are Mr. Fitzgerald’s, I remain concerned about potential conflicts of interest and a lack of procedural safeguards in place for his appointment. I am also concerned about the scope of Mr. Durham’s investigation. The Attorney General has indicated that Mr. Durham will investigate the destruction of the tapes. However, he has made clear that Mr. Durham will not investigate the activities recorded on the tapes, including the use of waterboarding. “Because of these concerns, I joined 18 of my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee in a letter to Attorney General Mukasey requesting that he appoint an outside special counsel in the videotapes case. To date, we have yet to receive a response to our request. “I am very interested in whether the special counsel regulations are functioning properly and whether the Department should revise the regulations in light of Mr. Fitzgerald’s experience. I am also interested in whether we should revisit the Independent Counsel Statute or whether we should consider a new legislative approach that strikes the proper balance of independence and accountability. Although the Subcommittee examined the expiring independent counsel statute and newly promulgated special counsel regulations in several hearings during the 106th Congress, this is the first hearing that I am aware of that the Subcommittee has conducted regarding oversight of the implementation of the special counsel regulations. Accordingly, I look forward to hearing from our witnesses.”
02.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on the State Video Tax Fairness Act of 2007. “In an era when genre-specific networks rule the airways and the public wants their entertainment “on demand,” cable and satellite services are more popular than ever. Nearly 100 million U.S. households receive their television programming either from cable or satellite providers. Consumers choose their television service provider based on a variety of factors, including the benefits offered, the availability in the particular location, and cost. No matter which other considerations are important, for most consumers, the total cost of a subscription will always be one of the deciding factors. “State and local taxes and fees are often overlooked by consumers trying to make smart choices. Because consumers don’t know how much those fees might be, or how those fees might change if the chosen service provider changes, few can make an informed decision between satellite and cable on the basis of price. Many simply are not aware that, depending on the state, a consumer may pay more depending on the chosen television service. Considering the current economic outlook, the differences in taxes could lead some consumers in a particular state to choose one television programming service provider over another to save money. Such decisions, taken together, could reduce competition for all consumers, and therefore lead to higher prices. “Today’s hearing will discuss whether there is discriminatory tax treatment by state governments in the video programming services industry. Additionally, we will examine what accounts for the differences in tax treatment between the two industries. Finally, we will examine H.R. 3679, the State Video Tax Fairness Act, and whether this approach ensures competition in the industry for the benefit of consumers.”
02.14.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), gave the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives on Thursday in support of the contempt resolution for former White House Counsel Harriet Miers and White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten. As chair of the CAL subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Justice Department’s Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys, Congresswoman Sánchez, along with Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr., led last year’s House investigations into the firings of eight U.S. Attorneys. Those investigations included seven hearings, five of those before the CAL Subcommittee. “Madam Speaker, we have reluctantly reached today’s vote to hold former White House Counsel Harriet Miers and White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten in contempt of Congress. “Since March 9, 2007, Chairman Conyers and I have patiently negotiated in good faith to reach an accommodation with the White House for documents and testimony relevant to the U.S. Attorney investigation. Unfortunately, the White House has stubbornly refused to move off its opening position, an unreasonable offer that testimony be given without an oath or transcript and that any testimony and documents provided exclude internal White House communications. To have negotiations, concessions by both sides are necessary. Otherwise, it’s just capitulation. “I was extremely disappointed that Ms. Miers, Mr. Bolten, and the White House based their refusal to comply with our subpoenas on sweeping claims of executive privilege and immunity that some experts have called “Nixonian in breadth.” The Subcommittee carefully considered these claims in two separate meetings last year. In detailed rulings, I found that these claims were not properly asserted and were not legally valid. Even if the claims were properly asserted and legally valid, the strong public need for the information about the U.S. Attorney firings substantially outweighs the assertion of executive privilege here. “I was also very disappointed to hear from Attorney General Mukasey in testimony before the Judiciary Committee last week that he will direct the D.C. U.S. Attorney not to comply with the contempt statute, which provides that the U.S. Attorney “shall” refer the contempt citation to a grand jury for action after receiving it from the Speaker. “Members on both sides of the aisle should recognize the gravity of this vote. If the Executive Branch is allowed to simply ignore congressional subpoenas while Congress idly stands by, we will have abdicated our role of oversight of the Executive Branch and undermine our system of checks and balances. Further, our lack of action will be cited by future Presidents as justification for questionable claims of executive privilege. “I hope that my colleagues on the other side will again stand together in support of this body’s institutional prerogatives. Time is long overdue for Congress to reassert itself as a co-equal branch of government.”
02.07.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an anti-gang amendment by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL). The Hastings-Sánchez amendment, which was attached to the higher education reauthorization bill that was approved by the House today, provides for a national pilot program creating partnerships between community colleges and juvenile detention centers to reduce recidivism rates through education, vocational training and counseling. “The State of California is going to spend $9 billion on incarceration costs this year, yet gang activity continues to rise,” Rep. Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, said. “Our amendment provides new solutions to turn around the lives of young people who have started down the wrong path.” The amendment will: * Authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants to community colleges for academic partnerships with juvenile detention centers to teach job skills to ex-offenders, facilitating a smooth re-entry into society. * Promote partnerships between community colleges and local agencies to promote strategies that divert at-risk youth from gangs, including academic, vocational and professional development opportunities, as well as apprenticeships and permanent employment opportunities. * Create individualized mentoring relationships between youthful ex-offenders enrolled in the program and law enforcement officials and guidance counselors to improve gang deterrence activities and reduce recidivism. The amendment was endorsed by the American Association of Community Colleges and the American Psychological Association. Congresswoman Sánchez is in her third term in the U.S. House of Representatives and is the only Democrat from the greater Los Angeles area who currently serves on the House Committee on Education and Labor.
01.22.2008	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) celebrated the passage today of a congressional resolution (H.Res. 932) honoring school counselors by declaring Feb. 4-8 “National School Counseling Week.” “With only one school counselor for every 920 students, more than three times the recommended ratio, California school counselors work extremely hard to meet the individual educational needs of students,” said Rep. Linda Sánchez, a member of the Education and Labor Committee. “This resolution recognizes the valuable contribution school counselors make to the education of our next generation.” The bipartisan resolution, introduced along with Rep. Vernon Ehlers (R-Mich.), recognizes that school counselors have been integral in efforts to reduce student drop-out rates by helping identify and address problems early in a student’s career. The bill is endorsed by the American School Counselor Association. The effort comes as a part of Congresswoman Sánchez’s efforts to provide students rich environments for personal growth and academic achievement and to recognize the educators who create those environments. Congresswoman Sánchez is in her third term in the U.S. House of Representatives and is the only Democrat from the greater Los Angeles area who currently serves on the House Committee on Education and Labor.
01.08.2008	CERRITOS, CA -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez presented the Whittier City Council with a $238,755 check on Tuesday evening for homework tutoring and after school programs at Dexter Middle School and the Whittier Public Library. Congresswoman Sánchez secured the federal funding in the 2008 omnibus appropriations bill, passed by Congress and signed by the president last month. In addition to funding current services offered by the Club Dexter after-school program at Dexter Middle School and the Homework Center at Whittier Public Library, the new money will enhance these programs. Club Dexter will be expanded to include family events and promote good health. Money will also be used for staff training to improve the quality of the program. The new money will also pay for the Homework Center to maintain a professional librarian and access to online tutoring services. “I am proud to bring our tax dollars back to our community for wise investments in our youth,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Our future depends on the success of today’s kids.” The Homework Center, an integral part of the Whittier Public Library, provides homework assistance to students in the 2nd through 12th grades. Since opening in May 2004 approximately 13,023 students have used the Homework Center with an average of 374 student visits per month. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $300,000 in federal funding in 2003 that helped create the Homework Center and fund its first years of operation. Serving hundreds of Dexter Middle School students, Club Dexter provides an opportunity for all registered participants to receive homework assistance and participate in intramural sports, field trips and other enrichment programs. The SKILLS Foundation, established in Whittier in the early 1980’s, provides funding and volunteers for Club Dexter and serves as the Advisory Board for program development. Board members from the Whittier Library and SKILLS Foundation attended Congresswoman Sánchez' presentation at the Whittier City Council meeting.
12.21.2007	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez has joined other leaders of the Judiciary Committee, as well as the Chairmen of the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, and Oversight and Government Reform in opposition to a proposed Social Security Administration (SSA) rule change that would sharply restrict appeal rights for severely disabled individuals applying for Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Medicare, and Medicaid benefits. Rep. Sánchez and ten other committee and subcommittee chairs explained their opposition to the rule change in a letter sent to Social Security Commissioner Michael Astrue earlier this week. The rule change was supposedly designed to reduce backlogs in the SSA’s initial benefit claim and benefit appeals process, but is likely to have the opposite result. The proposed rule would institute more formal, legalistic proceedings for benefit appeals, which could result in claims being denied on technicalities. The SSA expects that over $2 billion in benefits will be denied to severely disabled persons. “People shouldn’t need a lawyer to appeal a ruling from the Social Security Administration,” Rep. Linda Sánchez, the Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law said. “Many Americans applying for benefits are already in financial difficulty because they are sick or injured. We should be making the appeals process easier for the average American, not harder. The Administration’s proposed changes would make the appeals process adversarial, in contradiction to Congressional intent that the process be informal, understandable to the layman, and not strict in tone or operation’ -- an intention recognized by the Supreme Court.” “The real reason why the Social Security Administration has a backlog is that the Administration has refused to hire enough administrators to process claims,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “Rather than throw obstacles in the way of disabled people, the Administration should hire the staff needed to make sure that people get the benefits they deserve.” Congresswoman Sánchez built support among fellow Judiciary Committee leaders for a closer examination of the rule change. The proposed rule change would also limit when claimants can introduce evidence on their own behalf, setting a deadline of five days before a hearing for the submission of evidence. This requirement will keep claimants from submitting difficult to obtain medical records. “By restricting when evidence can be introduced, many claimants would probably choose to file a new application instead of pursuing an appeal,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “But filing a new application resets the date of eligibility, putting claimants who are unable to work in even greater financial distress. It is inefficient for the SSA, and it doesn’t make sense for disabled Americans affected by this policy.” Link to the proposed rule: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/110/SSRK/Copy%20of%20SSAs%20proposal.pdf Link to letter to Social Security Commissioner Astrue: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/110/SSRK/Final%20Comment%20ltr%20re%20Evidence%20and%20Appeals%20NPRM%2012-20-07.pdf
12.20.2007	Washington -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced today that she has secured final approval for $5.1 million in federal funding for projects across her Southern California district. The House Appropriations Committee included these investments in the defense funding bill approved in November and the federal omnibus funding bill which was passed by Congress on Wednesday and is expected to be signed by the president soon. “I’m very pleased to bring home these federal investments in our children, environment and local infrastructure,” Rep. Sánchez said. “They will help build stronger, more vibrant communities, and improve our quality of life.” Infrastructure investments include: $2,400,000 for the Agile Port and High Speed Technology Project at California State University, Long Beach. These funds, secured in the defense funding bill, provide for innovative research into logistical technologies designed to efficiently move cargo in and out of our local ports and reduce air pollution during cargo transport. The combined port of Los Angeles and Long Beach is the largest port complex in the United States. Research into cargo management will improve both the local and national economies as well as the air quality in our region. $588,000 for the City of Artesia to purchase new “clean air” buses and create a shuttle bus system along Pioneer Boulevard and other local streets. These funds will improve air quality and boost the local economy by providing a convenient and affordable way to get around Artesia’s commercial districts. "This shuttle bus system is going to give a big boost to our local businesses and be very helpful to local residents," said John Martins, Mayor of Artesia. "This is a great investment in our city." $492,000 for the Los Angeles County Water Supply Augmentation Study. This investment will fund the construction of a neighborhood demonstration project to show how small changes in local construction can yield significant environmental benefits. Rep. Sánchez had previously brought home $1.05 million for this study, which will improve the supply of drinking water and prevent ocean pollution in Southern California. $148,000 for the City of La Mirada and the Army Corps of Engineers to improve the city’s aging flood control system. These funds will help reduce the street flooding that is common during the rainy season in La Mirada’s Foster Park neighborhood. "This project is going to help our city protect against future localized flooding while also protecting our environment. It’s a win-win solution for La Mirada," said Andrea Travis, City Manager for La Mirada. $147,000 for the City of Lynwood to build public parks. These funds will allow the city of Lynwood to convert vacant lots into small “pocket” parks, improving the environmental and visual quality of the city, providing children with safe places to play, and addressing Lynwood’s current need for more open public space. Investments in our children include: $376,000 for the City of South Gate for its School Resource Officers program. These funds will pay for police officers specially trained to work with students on high school campuses in South Gate. This program is popular with students, faculty, and parents and has proven to be successful in reducing youth and gang violence on and around school campuses. $238,755 for the City of Whittier to support its after-school Library and Learning Center. These funds will improve staff and facility resources for the Center, which provides homework assistance to students in grades K-12. $191,593 to the ABC Unified School District to support an after-school program. These funds will help students get the assistance they need from teachers to maximize their academic performance. $143,443 to expand after-school programs at the Community Resource Center in South Whittier. These funds will help South Whittier youth build better lives through after-school tutoring to improve their study habits and computer literacy. $141,000 for the Compton Unified School District for its Youth Safety Program. These funds will fund a School Resource Officer to work in schools and the community in Willowbrook to prevent gang activity and violence. $133,624 for St. Francis Medical Center’s Healthy Children/Bright Futures program. These funds provide underprivileged children and their families with health education and access to healthcare and reduce the incidence of childhood obesity, asthma, and diabetes. The program will operate in Florence, Watts, Willowbrook, South Gate, and Lynwood. $94,000 for the Los Angeles Conservation Corps’ Youth Development and Crime Reduction program. These funds will provide supervision, training, and temporary employment for at-risk teenagers to improve their quality of life and reduce crime in Southern California. As part of their training, the teenagers will construct parks, playgrounds, and other public works projects for local cities.
12.12.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) applauded the passage today of H.R. 3609, the “Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Protection Act,” by the House Judiciary Committee. H.R. 3609, sponsored by Reps. Sánchez and Brad Miller (D-NC), would give bankruptcy judges the ability to restructure home mortgage debt in chapter 13 bankruptcy cases, a form of bankruptcy relief whereby individuals can restructure their debts. “Today we acted in a bipartisan manner to find relief for families being crushed by the mortgage meltdown,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “We’re providing a way for families to stay in their homes during bankruptcy, that will preserve neighborhood home values, protect the American dream of homeownership, and ensure our Nation’s economic stability.” Today’s action by the Committee included the adoption of compromise provisions that resulted from negotiations between Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-Mich.), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Rep. Sánchez. The compromise provisions narrowed the scope of the legislation to make it expire after seven years and ensure that it provides relief to those homeowners most in need. “This legislation will help hundreds of thousands of families facing foreclosure,” Rep. Sánchez said. “To prevent anyone from gaming the system, we’ve targeted this bill to subprime and non-traditional loans and included other safeguards to ensure that we’re helping those who need it, not people who just bought too much house.” The bill passed by the House Judiciary Committee today will only apply to subprime and nontraditional home loans, such as interest-only loans, that were originated between 2000 and the enactment of the bill. It gives bankruptcy judges in chapter 13 cases the authority to restructure home mortgage debt by extending the repayment period, setting aside excessive fees charged by unscrupulous mortgage lenders, modifying the principal amount of the mortgage to reflect the home’s actual value, and reducing exorbitant mortgage interest rates.
12.06.2007	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement on the House of Representatives’ passage of comprehensive energy legislation, H.R. 6, by a vote of 235 to 181. With gas prices in California climbing from an average of $1.44 in 2001 to $3.25 today, California should benefit from the New Direction Congress’ landmark energy legislation. The legislation’s Renewable Energy Standard should bring almost 20,000 new “green” jobs to the state, and pave the way for $1.35 billion in consumer energy savings. "With gas prices in my district topping three dollars a gallon, transportation costs for families are spiraling out of control, and our continued dependence on foreign oil from nations as volatile as the oil they sell us, the New Direction Congress has responded by enacting a real energy policy.” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “I’m proud to vote for legislation that will lower our energy costs and begin to address global warming.” The bill requires automakers to raise corporate average fuel economy standards (CAFE) for cars and light trucks to 35 miles per gallon (mpg) by 2020. Currently, automakers must meet a 27.5 mpg standard for cars and 22.5 mpg for light trucks. The bill also requires refineries to include alternative fuels in gasoline, which should help lower fuel costs. “In contrast to years of Republican-backed energy bills that were little more than subsidy packages for Big Oil, this legislation will help us become more energy independent, more environmentally friendly, and will help us regain our position as a world leader in innovative technologies,” Rep. Sánchez said. “We’re working to produce vehicles that get better gas mileage, and to create and promote the use of alternative fuel sources in cars, homes and factories.”
12.06.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 3396, The Sales Tax Fairness and Simplification Act of 2007, granting consent of congress to the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement. The bill also provides minimum requirements that each state must meet to collect sales taxes from remote sellers, including those online. “A recently released report on e-commerce revealed that online sales on CyberMonday 2007, the Monday following the Thanksgiving weekend, were $733 million, a 21% increase from the same shopping day last year. And the total online sales for this holiday season are projected to be $29.5 billion, an increase of $5 billion from the same shopping period last year. These numbers reflect the growing number of consumers who see the benefits of shopping online: no waiting in lines, no traffic to deal with, and the convenience of items being shipped to your front door. “But there is an additional benefit that some consumers enjoy when purchasing items online: not having to pay sales taxes. Some companies actually post this on their websites to increase sales. States currently have limited legal authority to require remote sellers to collect sales taxes on items they sell. Instead, the burden is on consumers to remit use taxes, which are the equivalent of sales taxes, to their state of residence. However, most consumers do not, partly due to the complexity in calculating how much taxes they need to pay, partly because they are not even aware of their obligation, and partly because, let’s face it, those who do know about the obligation aren’t actually going to go out of their way to pay additional taxes. “State and local governments have voiced their concerns that that increasing online sales and the resulting loss in collection of sales taxes are affecting an ever larger portion of their revenues. On the other hand, online businesses remind us that the Supreme Court has ruled that states cannot require them to collect sales taxes and remit them to the states because the tax systems are overly complex. “In an effort to remedy this issue, Congressman Delahunt has introduced H.R. 3396. H.R. 3396 would give Congress’s consent to the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement, which several states have entered into to simplify their sales tax systems and respond to the Supreme Court’s ruling. The legislation also sets forth 19 minimum simplification requirements which the states must follow to receive authorization to require remote sellers to collect sales taxes on items they sell. “Today’s hearing serves three purposes. First, the witnesses will help us understand whether there is a need for a simplified sales and use tax system. Second, this hearing will provide us with an opportunity to hear about the progress that the states have made in coming to an agreement to simplify their sales and use tax systems. And finally, the testimony will help us determine how soon the states can meet the requirements established in H.R. 3396 and whether the legislation fully addresses the concerns of consumers, states, and businesses. “We have four witnesses with us this morning to testify about the issues addressed by H.R. 3396 and to answer our questions about the legislation and the agreement, and what impact H.R. 3396 would have on consumers, businesses, and state and local revenues. Accordingly, I look forward to hearing today’s testimony.”
11.30.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- On the eve of World AIDS Day, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez participated in the City of Los Angeles’ HIV Testing Initiative today. The initiative aims to increase HIV testing levels and access to care throughout Los Angeles. “The well-known environmental adage ‘think globally, act locally’ applies to the struggle against HIV and AIDS. If we’re going to defeat the AIDS crisis facing the world, we need to start here at home by doing our part,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “I’m proud to join fellow community leaders in taking the HIV test, and I encourage others to do the same.” The initiative, led by the City of Los Angeles AIDS Coordinator’s Office (ACO), will increase testing in communities with high demand for testing, while reaching many who are underserved by current testing systems, particularly in communities of color. The Initiative will increase testing at community events in high prevalence neighborhoods; in colleges, universities, and high schools; and at private physicians groups, managed care providers, public clinics, and hospital systems. “In recent years, some Americans have become complacent about HIV, and rates of infection have been on the rise, particularly in minority communities,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. “I urge people to remember that the best way to protect yourself, your partner, and your family is by knowing your status and practicing safer sexalways.” Congresswoman Sánchez has been a strong supporter of HIV and AIDS awareness and public health measures. She has been particularly proud to support the work of the Whittier Rio Hondo AIDS Project, which serves much of southeastern Los Angeles County, including the Congresswoman’s district.
11.15.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee oversight hearing on Protecting the Playroom: Holding Foreign Manufacturers Accountable for Defective Products. The CAL Subcommittee hearing examined ways for consumers to hold foreign manufacturers accountable for defective products. “From the millions of toys recalled because of lead paint to last week's recall of Aqua Dots, a popular Chinese-made toy which converts into a dangerous 'date rape' drug when eaten, it has become increasingly clear that playrooms across the country are in danger. There is a growing business trend of sacrificing safety standards and quality for slightly cheaper imported products. While defective foreign-manufactured products entering into the U.S. is not a new phenomenon, I have been alarmed by the recent flow that's flooding our marketplace. “Unfortunately, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is tasked with protecting consumers from harmful and dangerous products, appears to have done little to curb the flow of these problematic imports. In fact, the CPSC has actually cut its total staff by 55 percent and its budget by 49.4 percent since it was created in 1974. It now has fewer than 100 inspectors and investigators nationwide. “Even more troubling was the recent release of records showing that CPSC employees have accepted a large number of trips financed by industries the Commission is mandated to regulate, calling into question its independence. I look forward to hearing from Pam Gilbert, former executive director of the CPSC, on how the Commission can more effectively do its job. “Given the increase of imported products that do not meet U.S. standards for health, safety, and quality, and the fact that the CPSC has been largely ineffective in preventing the importation of defective products, consumers are left with little protection. When consumers are harmed by foreign-made products, current law leaves them little recourse in receiving compensation from a foreign manufacturer. “Consumers seeking to hold foreign manufacturers accountable face a number of daunting barriers. First, a consumer must establish personal jurisdiction, an increasingly difficult task given the uncertainty of the law. A consumer must then navigate the complex service of process requirements when serving a manufacturer in a foreign country. This may include translating materials into the language of that country. Finally, even if the consumer succeeds in having the matter heard and winning a favorable judgment, collecting compensation may be difficult as most countries resist enforcing U.S. judgments. “I look forward to hearing from our witnesses on how we can ensure that foreign manufacturers are held accountable for injuries consumers suffer as a result of defective products. As the holiday season comes upon us, we must do what we can to make certain it is both joyful and safe. “Accordingly, I very much look forward to today’s hearing and to receiving the testimony from all of our witnesses.”
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) welcomed today’s passage of the Head Start for School Readiness Act, by a vote of 381-36, which renews and extends the Head Start program. Rep. Linda Sánchez served on the conference committee that shaped the final version of this legislation. Once approved by the Senate, the bill will go to the White House for signature by the president. “Head start is a program that is near and dear to my heart,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, who serves on the Education and Labor Committee. “My entire family, including my sister Loretta--the first Head start graduate to serve in Congress--has benefited greatly from Head Start's comprehensive program. This bipartisan legislation includes some necessary improvements to Head Start and goes a long way toward helping more children start kindergarten healthy and ready to learn.” Rep. Sánchez helped ensure that important priorities in the House bill, including the protection of parental input and participation through Parent Policy Councils (PPCs), survived the conference. Earlier this year, Rep. Sánchez met with constituents, including Head Start parents, and with the National Head Start Association, regarding the importance of the PPCs. PPCs not only allow parents to have a voice in their children's education, but they also help teach parents leadership and advocacy skills they can transfer to other settings, becoming active and involved citizens. Working with like-minded allies in the House, Representative Sánchez helped ensure the survival of the PPCs in the final bill. The final version of the legislation ends inappropriate testing of 4-year olds, improves teacher quality, makes all Head Start centers accountable for delivering high quality services, and creates a new funding formula that prioritizes expansion for Head Start centers that serve migrant and seasonal workers, that are located on tribal lands, and that serve children ages 0-3, when interventions can be even more meaningful. Head Start was established in 1965 to help prepare low-income children to succeed in school and in life by providing comprehensive services including not just early education, but health and nutrition services, to children and their parents. Representatives Sánchez and Howard “Buck” McKeon were the only Southern Californians among the 40 Representatives and Senators who served on the conference committee.
11.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- The House of Representatives passed H. Res. 812 today by a vote of 421-0. The resolution, authored by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood), expresses the sympathy and support of the House of Representatives and the people of the United States for the victims of the devastating flooding in southern Mexico. Rep. Sánchez gave the following speech on the floor of the House yesterday in support of H. Res. 812. “I first want to thank the distinguished Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Congressman Lantos, and the distinguished Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, for supporting this important resolution that I am offering today. “The U.S. has had its share of natural disasters recently, from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 to this year's southern California wildfires, some of which are still burning. As we have learned, it is difficult even for the United States, the richest nation in the world, to adequately care for our victims and rebuild our communities. “In both of those disasters, our neighbor was there to help us, with emergency relief units and firefighters. Now Mexico faces the challenge of a devastating natural disaster within its own borders. “This resolution recognizes the plight of our Mexican neighbors and expresses our desire and commitment to support Mexico during one of the worst natural disasters in its history. A disaster which the country's president has described as one of the worst not only because of the size of the area affected, "but because of the number of people affected." “As many Americans already know, a series of storms brought torrential rainfall to southern Mexico, especially the states of Tabasco and Chiapas, causing various rivers to overflow their banks. “At least half a million people's homes have been damaged or destroyed, and perhaps double that number are without utilities or cut off from transportation routes. “In the State of Tabasco, 100% of the agricultural crops have been lost and 80% of the state is under water. “Truly, this is a disaster of epic proportions. In this agricultural area, even those who were able to stay safe during the storm will face so many challenges. “Having lost their crops, which are for many their only source of income, surviving and keeping their families fed and intact will be difficult. “In addition to picking up the pieces of their lives after losing homes and crops, the flood survivors face increased threats from diseases like malaria, dengue fever, and cholera. “As a good neighbor, it is imperative that we do all that we can to help Mexico ensure that the flood victims can indeed get back on their feet. “It is the least we can do for a neighbor who did what it could, with its modest means, to help us in our times of need. “I also want to take a moment to commend Mexican President Felipe Calderon for leading his country's rapid response to this devastation and for his work before the rains fell to avert an even greater catastrophe. “Two days before the most damaging floods hit, amid heavy rains, President Calderon ordered in thousands of soldiers, marines, and pilots. When the riverbanks finally burst, inundating some 70% of the city of Villahermosa, there were more than 60 helicopters ready to carry out nonstop rescue and relief missions. “President Calderon and his cabinet have been active on the ground, giving televised updates on everything from how to use satellite phones in shelters to the drop points of millions of bottles of water. “The President's swift reaction is impressive, and I applaud his efforts. “This resolution expresses the empathy of the U.S. House of Representatives during this time and pledges our continued assistance. “We applaud the prompt humanitarian response of the Mexican government, international organizations, and relief bodies. We must continue to support these efforts as long as they are necessary. “I urge my colleagues not only to support this resolution, but to work together to ensure that its goals are realized. I urge us to continue to work in a bi-partisan manner to address this humanitarian crisis. We must not just speak of our good intentions, we must act on them. “We must immediately make assistance available to Mexican authorities so that Mexico can continue to provide relief aid to the victims as the effects of the flooding continue to unfold. “I strongly urge my Colleagues to support this resolution.”
11.13.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- The House of Representatives today passed legislation authored by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) which will help protect millions of children online. H.R. 4134, the Internet Crime Prevention Education Program Act, authorizes funding to continue the successful i-Safe program, which has provided online safety education for over 3 million children in all 50 states. The bill also provides for a competitive grant program to fund additional internet crime prevention efforts. “Kids today face dangers online that many of us find hard to imagine -- from gangs, predators, bullies, and thieves to sexual solicitations, harassment, and invasions of their privacy,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “If kids cannot take advantage of all the wonderful benefits that the Internet has to offer because of predators, bullies, and scam artists, then they are being robbed of an opportunity to learn and grow. I introduced the Internet Crime Prevention Education Program Act because we cannot let the information super-highway become the information super-nightmare.” The i-Safe program provides age-specific lesson plans for teachers to use in the classroom, from kindergarten through the 12th grade. As children get older, the message adapts. Early on, with the help of a cartoon character named “i-buddy,” kids learn how to be a good citizen on the internet -- learning proper etiquette in communicating with others while also maintaining privacy. As children get older, they are taught more about sexual predators, cyber-bullying, piracy, and financial scams. This bill is one component of Rep. Sanchez' Safe Kids Initiative -- a series of bills designed to protect children from bullying, harassment, gang activity, and other forms of violence, and to keep them safe and in school. The Internet Crime Prevention Education Program Act is the first bill in the Safe Kids Initiative that the full House has passed this year.
11.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the Judiciary Committee mark up of H.R. 3609, the “Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007.” “Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 3609, the 'Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007.' “The American Dream of owning a home is rapidly turning into a nightmare. It is estimated that between this year and next year there will be a whopping $400 billion worth of mortgage defaults with as many as 2 million households at risk of losing their homes through foreclosure. Mortgage lenders filed a record 72,571 notices of default against delinquent borrowers from July through September. This is up 34.5 percent from the prior quarter and 166.6 percent from just a year ago. And many individuals will face the possibility of losing their homes due to a substantial portion of subprime mortgages resetting their interest rates in the coming months. “This crisis is not simply limited to borrowers. Falling real estate prices and the inability to refinance or sell homes force many homeowners into foreclosure. That’s a major hit to our economy, which has ramifications for everyone, borrowers and lenders alike. “To resolve this catastrophe, Representative Brad Miller and I, along with a number of other members, introduced H.R. 3609 (the “Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007), a bill tailored to remedy the current subprime mortgage crisis. This measure simply makes some modest, prudent changes to bankruptcy law that would help alleviate some of the worst effects of the mortgage crisis. “Under H.R. 3609, a debtor in a chapter 13 case may reorganize his or her home mortgage obligations just like debt on vacation homes, investment properties and even yachts. And, unlike some proposals, this legislation provides guidance to the courts in terms of how this restructuring may be done. “H.R. 3609 also provides an important exception to the mandatory requirement that consumers receive credit counseling before they file for bankruptcy relief. The bill excuses a chapter 13 debtor from this requirement if he or she submits to the court a certification that a foreclosure action has been commenced against the debtor’s home. It makes absolutely no sense to require someone to start a course if their home is being foreclosed the next day. “And, this legislation provides important protections against lenders assessing excessive fees and hidden charges against chapter 13 debtors who are trying to save their homes from foreclosure. “The Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee held two hearings on this issue and favorably reported the legislation to the Judiciary Committee. The bill we reported out of subcommittee is a measured response to address the growing mortgage meltdown. We need to act. H.R. 3609 will restore fairness to hardworking American families struggling to save their homes from foreclosure in bankruptcy. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on this Committee to respond to the mortgage crisis and I urge support for this much needed legislation.”
11.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) was appointed by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi late last night to serve on the conference committee that will reconcile the House and Senate versions of H.R. 1429, the Head Start for School Readiness Act -- legislation to renew the Head Start program. The conference committee's final version of the bill will then go to the House and Senate for a final up-or-down vote. With approval from both chambers, the bill would then go to the White House for signature by the president. The first meeting of the conference committee will take place on Thursday, November 8. Head Start was established in 1965 to help prepare low-income children to succeed in school and in life by providing comprehensive services including not just early education, but health and nutrition services, to children and their parents. “Head Start is a critically important program for many low-income families, giving them the tools they need for their children to succeed in academics and life,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “I have seen the benefits of Head Start first hand in my own family, so I am very proud to play a role in ensuring that Head Start is strengthened and extended for the benefit of children in years to come.” Congresswoman Sánchez’ sister, Loretta Sanchez, was enrolled in Head Start as a child and is the first Head Start graduate to ever serve in Congress. Representatives Linda Sánchez and Howard “Buck” McKeon are the only Southern Californians among the 40 Representatives and Senators who will serve on the conference committee.
11.07.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) gave the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today in opposition to H. R. 3688, the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act. “I rise in strong opposition to H. R. 3688, which would implement the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement. “This is not a choice between trade and protectionism. It is a choice between fair trade, which can benefit working families across the nation, and unfair trade, which benefits the wealthiest few at the expense of the rest of us. “While there are some welcome, but minor, improvements to the Peru FTA as compared to NAFTA and CAFTA, the agreement is still not good enough. I feel like I’m at a used car lot. And the dealer is trying to sell me a beat-up old NAFTA lemon with a brand new paint-job and trying to tell me it’s a great car. “Well, we learned with NAFTA that there are no refunds for the American people when they’re sold a bad bill of goods. Let’s learn from our mistakes and reject this Peru FTA junker! “To serve the American people, we must work for real trade reform, not just put a band-aid on a trade model that has been bleeding jobs from this country since 1994. “Supporting this new deal requires us to believe in two things: 1) the actual benefits of the NAFTA free trade model, and 2) the promises of the Bush Administration. “Considering the first question, the actual benefits of the NAFTA model are about as real as the tooth fairy. “NAFTA was supposed to solve illegal immigration by developing a robust economy in Mexico that would give hard-working people the opportunity to provide for their families without having to leave their homeland behind. That didn’t work. “Instead, undocumented immigration has actually increased. Subsidized crops from the U.S. pushed millions of farmers off their land. And many of those displaced farmers ended up emigrating to the United States, whether or not they had proper documentation, just so they could find work to support their families. “CAFTA, another so-called improvement on the NAFTA model, was supposed to include bold new safety and wage protections for workers. But these protections are disappointingly weak, allowing countries to downgrade their own labor laws. “We have learned that the NAFTA Free Trade model is designed to favor the wealthiest few and corporate bottom lineat the expense of small businesses, workers, families, and our communities. “As to the second question, I think this Administration has made it pretty clear that it has no interest in enforcing labor laws. “The BP Texas City explosion, the Sago and Crandall Canyon mine disasters, and the failure to protect 9/11 first responders and clean-up workers who have developed serious breathing ailmentsthese are just a few of the most notorious examples of this Administration’s dereliction of duty to provide even the most basic protection to workers: the right to work in a safe environment. “So long as we have to rely on this Administration to protect the rights and safety of working men and women, we will continue to be disappointed. “To some in this House, the only redeeming value of this trade agreement seems to be that it’s not as bad as the deals with Colombia and Korea. “But that argument misses the point: when they say “not that bad,” we have to stand up for the American people and say “Not good enough.” “Finally, the Peru FTA offers inadequate protection for numerous endangered species that live in the forests of Peru, like the giant river otter and the jaguar. If it’s such a great agreement, why has no environmental group gone on record as supporting or embracing this agreement? I asked my colleagues this, and I don’t think they have an answer. “Let me just remind my colleagues who I have heard over and over on the floor tonight say that the enemy of the good is the perfect.’ Well from where I sit, the enemy of the good is the bad, and this is a bad agreement. “We now have choice before us. We should choose to vote NO to a non-democratic process, NO to benefiting big business at the expense of the little guy, NO to ignoring the will of the American people, and NO on the Peru FTA.”
11.06.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today voted to override President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The House vote of 361-54 succeeded in overriding the Bush veto. Rep. Sánchez worked with California Senator Barbara Boxer to ensure the bill authorizes $4 million in federal funding for improvements in the La Mirada flood control system. The bill also includes funding for over 200 flood control projects across the country protecting the lives and property of millions of American families, including those affected by Hurricane Katrina. “The water resources bill is an important investment that includes an innovative flood control system that helps protect homes in La Mirada from flood damage, and also improves the environment,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “I'm proud to support legislation that's a win-win for local communities and helping the environment.” The authorization gives Congresswoman Sánchez and Senator Boxer the ability to seek up to $4 million in annual federal funding in future years to help fund improvements to La Mirada’s flood control system. Without the Sánchez-Boxer provision in the WRDA authorization, no federal funds would be available to La Mirada to address its persistently problematic localized flooding. Congresswoman Sánchez earlier secured $125,000 in 2005 to fund the study phase of this project, which would incorporate environmentally-friendly innovations like bio-swales to clean stormwater runoff and prevent ocean pollution.
10.30.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today while managing the floor debate on H.R. 3678, the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act. “I rise in strong support for H.R. 3678, the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act, as amended. H.R. 3678, legislation designed to extend the internet tax moratorium and grandfather protections, clarify the treatment of gross receipts taxes, and revise the definition of Internet access, is bipartisan legislation at its best. It has wide spread support by industry groups, including the Don't Tax Our Web Coalition, as well as by various government organizations, such as the National Governors Association, the Federation of Tax Administrators, the National Conference of Mayors, and the National Conference of State Legislatures. It is also supported by a wide range of labor and union groups, including the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. And with that broad support, the House passed H.R. 3678 by a vote of 405-2. “H.R. 3678 as amended by the Senate contains four distinct changes: “First, the Senate version extends the moratorium on state and local taxes on Internet access and continues grandfather protections for seven years, until November 1, 2014. The seven-year time frame will allow Congress to revisit the moratorium and consider developments in the States or in technology. It will also provide businesses sufficient time to plan, and ensure that consumers benefit from tax-free access to the Internet. “Second, the Senate version extends from November 1, 2007 to June 30, 2008, the time for certain states to adjust to a phase-out of the grandfather protection. This alteration will benefit state governments who would have scrambled to readjust their budgets with a loss of revenue beginning November 1. “Third, the Senate version expands the definition of Internet access to prohibit taxation of certain services which are fee-based, not packaged with Internet access, and are offered from sources other than providers of Internet access. “Finally, the Senate version prohibits a state from reimposing Internet access taxes if the state had eliminated the taxes more than two years ago. “For nearly ten years we have had the luxury of tax-free internet access as we have operated under a moratorium passed by Congress. But that the moratorium expires in less than two days. With the impending end of the moratorium in sight, this chamber agreed nearly unanimously to pass H.R. 3678, the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act. This legislation is an example of how a bipartisan approach to a complex issue can serve the public good. “While the Senate made some changes to H.R. 3678, this is a version I am very proud to support. It retains the essence of H.R. 3678, including refining the definition of Internet access and most importantly, providing a temporary extension of the moratorium. This legislation minimizes the effect on state and local government revenue, treats businesses fairly, and keeps Internet access affordable to consumers. “I remind my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that the current Internet tax moratorium expires in about 36 hours. Mr. Speaker, I encourage all my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3678, the amended Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act, so that tax-free access to the internet can continue. And I reserve the balance of my time.”
10.29.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez gave the following speech in opposition to the U.S.-Peru Free Trade Agreement. “Madam Speaker, tonight I rise to address the House and the American people regarding the U.S-Peru Free Trade Agreement and its effect on working families. “Before I launch into my remarks, I want to be clear, I AM committed to trade. I believe trade is an essential component to the development and strengthening of our economy. Done the right way, trade can increase our access to raw material for production and create American jobs. It can open foreign markets to our goods and services and bring new and unique products to the U.S. “Done the right way, trade can not only contribute to the economic prosperity of America and its working families, it can also strengthen the economic and political stability of our trading partners. “It is because I believe in the many positive impacts that trade can bring, when done the right way, that I have been fighting for a new trade model. “The NAFTA-style free trade agreements negotiated by the Bush Administration are the wrong way to do trade. They bring nothing more than empty promises and harm to the American working class. “My support for smart trade agreements that work for working people means I cannot support the U.S.-Peru FTA. It is based upon the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which has resulted in job loses in America, pushed small farmers off the land in Mexico, and jeopardized public health and safety policies in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada. “When the Administration announced its 'New Policy on Trade' earlier this year I, along with the rest of my colleagues in the House Trade Working Group, was hopeful that the Administration had taken bold steps to improve its trade policy. Unfortunately, it soon became clear that the Peru FTA, along with the rest of the pending trade agreements, retained the basic structure of NAFTA and CAFTA. The bold promises of new protections for workers turned out to be nice promises that had little chance of being enforced. “The American people are fed up with trade agreements that only benefit the 'haves' while making it harder for the 'have-nots' to get ahead. A recent Wall Street Journal survey identified declining public confidence in the NAFTA-style trade model. According to the survey, 60% of conservative Americans, those whom would have been most apt to support the expansion of free trade, now believe free trade is harmful to the U.S. economy. “The promises of U.S. job creation and an increased standard of living for the working class have not been fulfilled. Instead, we continue to see the rich get richer and the rest -- the middle and working class -- get left behind. “The Administration asserts that the new additions to the Peru agreement will add long-sought labor and environmental protections. However, a careful analysis reveals that there are few changes from the basic NAFTA-CAFTA text. And even where there are changes, the new provisions offer few new protections. If the Peru FTA is so great, where is all the union support? Why do so many environmental groups oppose it? “NAFTA-CAFTA provisions that have caused downward pressure on wages, the export of U.S. jobs, and an import of unsafe products and food, have changed little. This so-called New Deal’ is a bad deal. It's an old clunker with a new coat of paint. “But even if this New Deal’ contained the most stringent labor and environmental protections in the world, it would be dependent on the Executive Branch for enforcement. And enforcement of labor and environmental standards is something the current administration is unlikely to do. Let’s be honest, the Bush Administration has a consistent record of non-enforcement. “We need a Real New Deal, not another NAFTA clone. Simply put, the NAFTA model doesn’t work. It has failed to bring the jobs and prosperity that we were promised. Remember when we were promised that NAFTA would create jobs in Mexico and stem the flow of immigration? Remember when we were promised that NAFTA would ensure that our trading partners would uphold the same strong labor and environmental standards that we have here in the U.S.? “And now, this Administration is asking us to believe its promise that the labor and environmental provisions in the Peru agreement will be stringently enforced. Well, if the experience of the last 10 years hasn’t convinced you, I’ve got some swampland in Florida that I’d like to sell you. “So long as we have to rely on this Administration to protect the rights and safety of working men and women, we will continue to be disappointed. “This Administration’s track record does not reflect a real commitment to the working families of America. The truth of the matter is that the NAFTA model heavily favors the wealthiest few, leaving small businesses to fend for themselves on an unequal playing field. The Peru free trade agreement has been advertised as the new model for trade deals. This sounds eerily familiar to what we were told when CAFTA was being pushed. CAFTA was supposed to include bold new wage protections for workers. But those protections were disappointingly weak, allowing countries to downgrade their own labor laws. “Minor adjustments to NAFTA-style deals such as the U.S.-Peru FTA are not good enough. We need to reject the Peru free trade agreement and I urge all my colleagues to oppose it.”
10.25.2007	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on H.R. 3010, the “Arbitration Fairness Act of 2007.” The bill would deem invalid and unenforceable arbitration agreements in an employment, consumer, or franchise context and between parties of unequal bargaining power if both parties to the dispute do not voluntarily agree to arbitrate the claim after the dispute arises. “Several months ago, this Subcommittee held an oversight hearing on the Federal Arbitration Act. At our hearing, we learned through testimony about the history of arbitration and the reasons that Congress felt it wise to promote it through the FAA. Congress wanted to free up the courts from an increasingly heavy docket, to place arbitration agreements on the same footing as contracts, and to encourage arbitration between businesses possessing equal bargaining powers. We learned how the use of arbitration has evolved since 1925, and how its use has expanded today. We also learned from the testimony that although arbitration may offer some benefits for parties to a dispute, an increasing number of businesses and employers have begun to utilize arbitration to their advantage and thus, to the distinct disadvantage of consumers, employees, and others. “Now, several months later, we hold this legislative hearing on H.R. 3010: the Arbitration Fairness Act of 2007, which our esteemed colleague from Georgia, Rep. Hank Johnson, introduced shortly after our June hearing. H.R. 3010 seeks to amend the Federal Arbitration Act to require that agreements to arbitrate employment, consumer, franchise, or civil rights disputes may be valid and enforceable only if they were made voluntarily and after the dispute had arisen. “Arbitration was never intended as a tool to advantage one side over the other in a dispute. To be a respected and reasonable alternative to the courts, arbitration must provide a level and fair playing field. But since our June hearing, several reports have been issued revealing how arbitration favors businesses, employers, and securities firms. These reports do not paint a rosy picture for fairness in arbitration. However, we hope to elicit more testimony today on the accuracies of these reports to help us determine whether H.R. 3010 is needed legislation. “Finally, during our June hearing on this issue, the Ranking Member on this Subcommittee, Mr. Cannon, stated that we should review proposals to restrict the freedom of contract cautiously. I concur with Mr. Cannon’s statement but also firmly believe that we should thoroughly review any process, such as arbitration, that may restrict constitutional and statutory rights, and that may cement any unfair advantages at the expense of consumers and particularly, employees. “Today we gather to hear testimony from several individuals with knowledge of the arbitration process. I want to emphasize that today’s testimony is very important for our understanding of the legislation. Accordingly, I look forward to hearing today’s testimony and welcome a thorough discussion of the issues and legislation.”
10.24.2007	Washington, DC -- The full House Judiciary Committee today unanimously passed Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ bipartisan bill, H.R. 1512, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program Reimbursement Protection Act. The bill would allow states and localities to be reimbursed for some of the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens before and during trial. “States and counties shouldn't have to shoulder the financial burden of incarcerating criminal aliens because of failures in the federal government’s border policy,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “This bill will give states and localities more opportunities for reimbursement from the federal government so they aren't forced to release suspects early just because they can't afford to keep them in custody.” Under the Bush Administration, the Department of Justice has limited SCAAP payments, stipulating that states and localities can only be reimbursed for the cost of incarcerating a criminal alien if the alien is eventually convicted of a crime, making many of the costs associated with pre-trial detention ineligible for reimbursement. “Too often, states and counties are forced to cut important public safety programs because the burden of incarcerating criminal aliens is too high and the federal reimbursement too low,” Sánchez said. “I've heard about this problem from law enforcement officers in Southern California and across the nation, and I'm determined to fix it.” The legislation is a result of conversations between Congresswoman Sánchez, law enforcement agencies, and their officers on how to fix this problem. H.R. 1512 has 56 Democratic and Republican cosponsors and is endorsed by the U.S./Mexico Border Counties Coalition, the California State Association of Counties, the Los Angeles Sheriffs Department and numerous law enforcement organizations, including the National Sheriff's Association, the California State Sheriffs' Association, the Sheriff's Association of Texas, and the Virginia Sheriffs' Association.
10.23.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), made the following statement today as part of the joint hearing by the CAL Subcommittee and the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, titled “Allegations of Selective Prosecution: The Erosion of Public Confidence in our Federal Justice System.” The hearing is part of the Judiciary Committee's ongoing investigation into the politicization of the U.S. Department of Justice. “During the course of the U.S. Attorney investigation, we have attempted to learn why nine talented U.S. Attorneys were fired in the middle of President Bush’s second term. While the answer to that question remains elusive, today we will try to answer a different, but no less troubling question: did the U.S. Attorneys who were not fired -- the so-called “loyal Bushies” -- base federal prosecutions on improper partisan purposes rather than on facts and law? “The public must learn the full extent to which the Justice Department has been transformed into a political arm of the Bush Administration. During former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales’s tenure, non-political Justice Department lawyers such as Assistant U.S. Attorneys and immigration judges were hired for jobs based on party affiliation and campaign contributions rather than because of their qualifications. “Top members of Mr. Gonzales’s staff attended pre-election White House political briefings led by Karl Rove and his aides. Mr. Gonzales authorized almost 900 people in the White House to have communications about ongoing civil and criminal investigations with at least 42 Department officials. “Some federal indictments were timed so as to have a maximum impact on upcoming elections. And evidence suggests that nine U.S. Attorneys were fired in part because they refused to make prosecutorial decisions for politically-motivated reasons. “This hearing will explore whether political considerations improperly influenced prosecutorial judgments in several cases across the country. In July, Chairman Conyers, Mr. Davis, Ms. Baldwin, and I requested documents from the Justice Department on three alleged selective prosecutions that we believe require additional investigation: former Alabama Governor Don Siegelman, Wisconsin state official Georgia Thompson, and Cyril Wecht, a prominent former Democratic coroner in Pittsburgh. Three months have passed since our original request, and we still do not have an adequate response from the Department. “While our document request focused on three cases of alleged selective prosecution, several other cases have come to my attention since we started the U.S. Attorney investigation. “For example, the prosecutions of Georgia State Senator Charles Walker, Pennsylvania State Senator Vince Fumo, Michigan Attorney General candidate Geoffrey N. Fieger, Puerto Rico Governor Anibal Acevedo-Vila, and Democratic contributor Peter Palivos may warrant additional scrutiny and committee action. “At this time I would ask unanimous consent to enter letters regarding the cases of Mr. Fieger, Mr. Palivos, Mr. Walker, and Mr. Acevedo-Vila into the record. “Anecdotal concerns regarding alleged politically based, select prosecutions have been reinforced by an academic study by Professors Donald Shields, a witness at today’s hearing, and John Cragan. The study found federal prosecutors during the Bush Administration have indicted Democratic officeholders far more frequently than their Republican counterparts. I look forward to hearing Professor Shields’ testimony today and to gaining a better understanding as to why Democrats are disproportionately targeted for federal prosecution. “I was encouraged that, when Attorney General nominee Michael Mukasey was asked about the role of politics in law enforcement decision, he responded, “partisan politics plays no part in either the bringing of charges or the timing of charges.” “However, as we learned from the divergence of Mr. Gonzales’s initial public statements from his actions at the Department, I will reserve judgment on Mr. Mukasey until we are certain that his actions reflect the interests of the American people rather than simply the President. “I hope that if confirmed, Mr. Mukasey will act quickly to remove the cloud of politicization over the Justice Department and help steer the Department back to its core mission: to ensure fair and impartial administration of justice for all Americans. Ensuring that U.S. Attorneys base prosecutions on legitimate crimes instead of political considerations would be a good start. The American people need to be assured that political calculations do not determine whether an individual is arrested or prosecuted.”
10.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez gave the following speech on the floor of the House of Representatives today, supporting H. Res. 721 which recognizes the 60th anniversary of the Mendez v. Westminster decision ending segregation of Mexican and Mexican American students in California. The case set a precedent for the Supreme Court’s decision to end segregation in Brown v. Board of Education. Congresswoman Sánchez managed the debate time on the resolution. “Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 721 recognizes the 60th anniversary of the Mendez v. Westminster School District decision which ended segregation of Mexican and Mexican American students in California schools, and honors the Mendez family. “I want to commend the Gentleman from Texas (Mr. Gonzalez) for introducing this important resolution, which I am proud to cosponsor. “As the daughter of Mexican immigrants, this decision has special meaning for me. Like the parents in the Mendez case, my parents understood the importance of education in the realization of the American dream. Thanks to their efforts and encouragement, all seven of their children have excelled, earning college and advanced degrees. “The Mendez decision really marked a turning point in the effort to win full rights for all Californians of Mexican descent. While the court ruled on narrow grounds that California law did not authorize the school district to create separate, so-called “Mexican schools,” the importance and effect of that decision went much further. “The words of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit are worth repeating: 'By enforcing the segregation of school children of Mexican descent against their will and contrary to the laws of California, [the school district] may have violated the federal law as provided in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution by depriving them of liberty and property without due process of law and by denying to them the equal protection of the laws.' “Seven years later, the Supreme Court would finally put an end to the discredited doctrine which allowed school segregation based on the fiction of “separate but equal” schools in the landmark decision Brown v. Board of Education. “The author of that decision, Chief Justice Earl Warren, had, as Governor of California, responded to the Mendez decision by signing into law a repeal of the last remaining school segregation statutes in the California Education Code. “This resolution also “honors the Mendez family and congratulate[s] Sylvia Mendez for her continued efforts to keep alive the importance of this case and the impact it had on her future.” It is important that we not forget the courage of this family. They took a stand against the prevailing system of segregation in the public schools and won a tremendous victory. “I am a beneficiary of their courage and their achievement. The story of the Mendez family’s struggle against school segregation took place in Westminster, Orange County -- just a few miles from where my siblings and I grew up, played soccer and went to school. If the Mendez family had not challenged the status quo, and if I had not grown up a post-Mendez Orange County, it would have taken me many more years to reach the floor of this House, if at all. “School segregation in California was just one facet of the widespread discrimination that Americans of Mexican descent faced across the Southwest, from the Gulf coast to the Pacific coast. Hotels, restaurants, barber shops, public pools, movie theatres, and even maternity wards were segregated for those of Mexican heritage. It was very common to see signs that read “No Mexicans served” or “Mexicans and Dogs Not Allowed.” “The injustice of discrimination was most appalling in public education: in the 1930s, more than two-thirds of the Orange County students of Mexican descent were considered as “mentally retarded.” When the Mendez children were turned away from the 17th Street “White school” in their home town, they were sent to the Hover Elementary “Mexican school” which was a rickety, wooden building on a dirt lot. Adding insult to injury, many of such “Mexican Schools” operated half days during walnut picking season to accommodate local agribusiness demands for child labor. “Mr. Speaker, there are forces in our society today who believe that the cause of school integration, of diversity, no longer matter. Some believe that fighting segregation might even violate our Constitution. “That is wrong. The Supreme Court in Brown correctly found that separate cannot be equal. As we reflect on this anniversary of the Mendez decision, we must renew our determination to fight injustice and the forces of intolerance. Our nation will continue to benefit from our diversity. “I join the members of this House in commemorating this important milestone in our nation’s history, and honoring the Mendez family for their courage, their strength, and their contribution to the American dream.”
10.22.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- As a part of her effort to strengthen state and local law enforcement agencies, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez last week introduced H.R. 3836 The Ensure Timely SCAAP Reimbursements Act. The bill was referred to the Judiciary Committee for consideration. “It’s unacceptable that the Department of Justice takes up to two years to reimburse state and local governments for the cost of incarcerating criminal aliens,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “This bill gets money back to local and state law enforcement agencies faster, protecting their budgets and allowing them to fund more programs that make our communities safer.” The Ensure Timely SCAAP Reimbursements Act would require the Department of Justice to process requests made under the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program within 120 days of the reimbursement application deadline. In fiscal year 2006, which covered inmates housed between July 1, 2004 and June 30, 2005, counties were not informed of their reimbursement funding until June 21, 2007, almost a two year delay. These delays place a financial strain on state and local law enforcement agencies, keep them from fully funding public safety programs, and prevent them from making necessary equipment purchases. “Police departments shouldn’t have to choose between funding public safety programs and buying needed equipment because their money is tied-up in the reimbursement process for two years,” Congresswoman Sánchez said. The legislation has bipartisan support. Republican Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-49) and Rep. Brian Bilbray (CA-50) have joined 17 other co-sponsors. Congresswoman Sánchez looks forward to working with members of both parties to protect the financial solvency of state and local law enforcement agencies. Congresswoman Sánchez introduced other legislation earlier this year that would help states and localities get reimbursed for some of the costs of incarcerating criminal aliens before and during trial, reversing a Bush Administration rule that limited such reimbursement for post-conviction costs only. That legislation, H.R. 1512, the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program Reimbursement Protection Act, has been favorably reported by the Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. It is scheduled to be marked up in the full Judiciary Committee this Wednesday.
10.18.2007	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez released the following statement today after Republicans in Congress voted to sustain President Bush’s veto of bipartisan legislation providing healthcare for 10 million poor children. “It’s shameful that a president and handful of Republican Congressmen -- who all enjoy government provided healthcare -- are preventing low income children from receiving their own healthcare coverage,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Conservatives, who rubber-stamped half a trillion dollars in war spending, fail their own compassion test by opposing this children's healthcare program.” The bipartisan State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) has been endorsed by 43 state governors from both parties and more than 270 organizations, representing millions of Americans, including the American Medical Association, America’s Health Insurance Plans, and Families USA. The program would provide healthcare coverage for 10 million children of low-income, working families with incomes too high to qualify for Medi-Cal, but too low to afford private insurance.
10.18.2007	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) issued the following statement when casting her vote today in the House Committee on Education and Labor against H.R. 3685, a narrow version of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) that excludes protections based on gender identity. Congresswoman Sánchez is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2015, the original version of ENDA that was introduced earlier this year and prohibits workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Congresswoman Sánchez joined three other Democrats in opposing H.R. 3685 for similar reasons. The bill won approval by the Committee and is expected on the House floor next week. Congresswoman Sánchez is actively working to rally support for an anticipated amendment by Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisconsin) to add gender identity protections into the legislation. “I am pleased that last month, the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions held a hearing on H.R. 2015, the original version of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act that was introduced earlier this year. I am a proud original cosponsor of that bill, which would prohibit workplace discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. “I am disappointed that we're not marking up that bill today. Instead, we have a narrower, less inclusive version of the bill, which does not include gender identity. “In the opening statement I submitted at last month's hearing, I said I was proud that as a member of this Committee, I was able to help make our employment laws consistent with our values. “Unfortunately, this bill does not go far enough to enshrine American values into law because it fails to include protections to those who arguably need it most: transgender people, as well as those who don't conform to gender stereotypes. These are the most vulnerable people we sought to protect in H.R. 2015, the fully inclusive ENDA. “I believe I am correct to say that it is an American value that it is unacceptable to deny someone a job, a raise, or a promotion for arbitrary factors beyond their job performance. And that is a value that holds true regardless of the worker’s real or perceived gender identity. “I am pleased that the bill before us today would provide protections to millions of Americans currently facing discrimination based on their sexual orientation, or perceived sexual orientation. Such discrimination is an injustice and this legislation correctly addresses it. I applaud the Chairman of the Committee for his desire to fight discrimination in the workplace, and for all he does on behalf of working families. “However, because I believe we could have done better in this Committee today, by reporting out a fully inclusive ENDA, I will not vote for this legislation today. “I hope that H.R. 3685 is not reported out of Committee today so that we can have an opportunity to build a consensus within this Committee, the House and the wider community, to advance a fully inclusive Employment Non-Discrimination Act.”
10.17.2007	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced that the ABC Unified School District received a grant of $564,725 from the U.S. Department of Education’s Magnet Assistance Program. The grant is expected to be renewed for two additional years. The total grant funding for three years will be $2,530,015. “The district has an innovative magnet program linking schools by theme to promote diversity, and expand educational opportunities for students in lower-performing schools,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez , who serves on the House Education and Labor Committee. “I am very pleased that the federal government recognized the importance of ABC Unified’s magnet program.” “ABC School District has been fortunate to be the recipient of the Magnet School Assistance Program funds for the past ten years,” said Dr. Mary Sieu, Deputy Superintendent of ABC School District. “We are delighted to have been successful again in obtaining this grant to convert three schools into magnet schools. This includes Burbank Elementary School (Artesia), Stowers Elementary School (Cerritos) and Fedde Middle School (Hawaiian Gardens). ABC will now have a total of ten magnet schools in the District.” Congresswoman Sánchez has been a strong supporter of education as a member of the Education and Labor Committee. The committee is currently working on the renewal of the No Child Left Behind Act. Congresswoman Sánchez is also working to advance legislation she introduced to make schools safer by providing programs to reduce bullying and gang violence.
10.10.2007	WASHINGTON -- The House Judiciary Committee today favorably reported, by voice vote, H.R. 3654, the Regulatory Improvement Act of 2007, reauthorizing the Administrative Conference of the United States. No amendments were adopted. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, reported the bill out of the subcommittee, following a legislative hearing, in September. The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) is a nonpartisan think-tank that evaluates the efficacy of government agency rules and makes recommendations for reform. ACUS was reauthorized in the 108th Congress, but has not been funded since. “There is a need for a permanent, neutral, nonpartisan entity that can dispassionately examine administrative law and make credible recommendations for reform,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez said. “Through its recommendations, ACUS will save taxpayers many millions of dollars, far more than the modest cost of re-establishing it.” Rep. Chris Cannon, the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, introduced H.R. 3654 with Congresswoman Sánchez as an original co-sponsor.
10.04.2007	WASHINGTON -- By a vote of 5 to 4, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), today (Thursday) favorably reported H.R. 3609, “The Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Protection Act Of 2007.” No amendments were adopted. The legislation, introduced by CAL Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Brad Miller (D-NC) last month, will help keep 600,000 homeowners affected by the sub-prime lending crisis from losing their homes through foreclosure by allowing bankruptcy judges to restructure home mortgage debt as they can currently do for mortgages on investment properties, vacation homes, and family farms. “I am very pleased that the subcommittee was able to take action today to help address the growing mortgage meltdown,” said Sánchez. “With even more sub-prime loans scheduled to reset to higher interest rates in the next 18 months, Congress must act now to prevent the current wave of foreclosures from turning into a tsunami.” H.R. 3609 now goes to the full Judiciary Committee for consideration.
10.03.2007	Washington -- President George W. Bush vetoed a children’s healthcare measure today (Wednesday) that would have provided insurance coverage for 1.8 million children in California and 10 million children across the nation. The President, who earlier this week turned away children pulling red Radio Flyer wagons full of petitions asking him to sign the bill, then left the capital. “President Bush’s veto of children’s healthcare is not compassionate conservatism -- it is moral bankruptcy at its worst,” Rep. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) said. The bipartisan State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) has been endorsed by 43 state governors from both parties and more than 270 organizations, representing millions of Americans, including the American Medical Association, America’s Health Insurance Plans, and Families USA. The program would provide healthcare coverage for 10 million children of low-income, working families with incomes too high to qualify for Medi-Cal, but too low to afford private insurance. “I am shocked that President Bush and his Republican supporters in Congress could spend $700 billion for the war in Iraq, but don’t think it’s a national priority to provide $35 billion over five years to ensure children have access to healthcare,” Rep. Sánchez said. “I’m disappointed we are in a situation where an out-of-touch President, and his few remaining allies in Congress, are able to obstruct the will of the American people.”
09.27.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following statement today at a press conference with Rep. Brad Miller introducing H. R. 3609, “The Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007.” “It’s a pleasure to join my colleagues Brad Miller and Carolyn Maloney today to formally announce the introduction of the Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act. “I thank Mr. Miller for his leadership on this critical issue and am pleased we’re working together to find relief for those being crushed by the sub-prime mortgage crisis. “With 1.2 million foreclosures having occurred last year, and more expected this year and next, we have to act now. “It is estimated that between this year and next there will be a whopping $400 billion worth of mortgage defaults. “That’s a major hit to our economy, which will have ramifications for everyone. “Just because you might not have a sub-prime mortgage does not mean this doesn’t affect you. “The Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act would make modest, prudent changes to bankruptcy law that would help alleviate some of the worst effects of the mortgage crisis. “Earlier this week, the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law held a hearing on the current mortgage crisis. “We heard from experts on how we got into this mess, and heard their views on ways to fix it, including possible legislative solutions. “Now I’m even more confident that this bill is the right approach. “Even the banking industry acknowledges that foreclosure is the worst outcome for everyone “And their representative agreed with me that current bankruptcy law is unfair in how it treats average homeowners differently from those who are well off enough to own vacation homes. “Right now, if you’re in bankruptcy and own a vacation home or investment property, the bankruptcy judge can modify the mortgages on those properties and give you relief. “But if you’re like most Americans, and only have one property your home you don’t get the same privilege. “Anyone who knows me, knows that I hate unfairness. The current law is unfair and needs to be changed. “That’s why I’m proud to be behind this bill, which will restore fairness to hardworking American families struggling to save their homes from foreclosure in bankruptcy. “As Chair of the CAL Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over bankruptcy law, I will work to move this legislation swiftly. “In fact, the work has already begun. Congressman Miller and I are already laying the ground work and recruiting wider support for this bill. “As we do this work, let’s remember that being able to own your home is the proudest financial achievement for most Americans. It is one of the cornerstones of the American Dream. “We cannot stand idly by while the dreams of hundreds of thousands turn into nightmares.”
09.25.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following statement today, welcoming the introduction of the “Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act of 2007." Chairwoman Sánchez was unable to participate in the press conference announcing the new legislation due to a concurrent subcommittee mark up on her bill to provide more resources to local law enforcement. “I want to thank Chairman Conyers for introducing this landmark legislation, the Protecting Employees and Retirees in Business Bankruptcies Act of 2007 and I am pleased to be an original cosponsor. I am also proud to stand with our brothers and sisters in organized labor to support this important bill. “This legislation will address some of the most significant injustices suffered by workers and retirees in large corporate reorganizations. Earlier this month I held a hearing in the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law where we heard about the gross inequities that occur when companies reorganize under current bankruptcy law. While workers and retirees are asked to bear the brunt of the pain, sacrificing pensions they’ve worked their entire career to build up, executives’ benefits remain unscathed and some even get huge bonuses! “This legislation will address this unfairness, which we’ve seen too often: in airline reorganizations, in steel bankruptcies, in the Enron bankruptcy, in the auto industry and in many other cases. “Employees and retirees don’t want to destroy a company in bankruptcy. They have as much at a stake in the company’s future as anyone. Their families, their future, and their communities depend on a successful reorganization, but they should not have to carry the burden alone. And workers shouldn't be left holding the bag when the truth comes out that those who were paid the big bucks to make the right business decisions in fact made the wrong ones. “Most of you know I got my start in the labor movement. It is a privilege to be able to carry on my advocacy for working families in the Congress. Too often, working people and retirees don’t have a voice here in Washington. Today, Congress is listening. And with this bill, we’re giving working people a voice.”
09.25.2007	WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), made the following statement today as part of the CAL Subcommittee’s oversight hearing titled “Straightening Out the Mortgage Mess: How Can We Protect Home Ownership and Provide Relief to Consumers in Financial Distress?” Chairwoman Sánchez convened the hearing to hear from experts about what caused the current subprime mortgage crisis, its impact on consumers and the economy, and possible solutions. “Today’s sky rocketing foreclosure numbers are a sobering reminder of this nation's growing mortgage crisis. What was once a small problem attributed to economically struggling areas is quickly becoming a national phenomenon. " In 2006, there were 1.2 million foreclosures in the United States, representing an increase of 42 percent over the prior year. " And this year's numbers are looking even worse: Last month’s foreclosures were 115 percent greater than those reported for August in 2006. " It is estimated that between this year and next year there will be a whopping $400 billion worth of mortgage defaults. " As many as 2 million households may be at risk of losing their homes through foreclosure, a rate approaching that of the Great Depression. " And, economic conditions will worsen given the fact that a substantial portion of subprime mortgages will reset their interest rates in the coming months. “We are in the middle of a mortgage meltdown. Falling real estate prices and a substantial change in the ease of obtaining loans are making it more difficult for overstretched homeowners to either refinance their way out of trouble or simply sell their homes. We need to act quickly to shift the balance of power between borrowers and lenders. The question is how? “I was very pleased to join my colleague from North Carolina, Brad Miller, last week as an original cosponsor of the “Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act of 2007.” This measure goes to the very heart of the problem: protecting homeowners so desperate that they must file bankruptcy. “H.R. 3609 allows -- for the first time in nearly 30 years -- a debtor in a chapter 13 case to reorganize his or her home mortgage obligations just like any other debt. And, unlike some proposals, it provides guidance to the courts in terms of how this restructuring may be done. “This legislation provides an important exception to the mandatory requirement that consumers receive credit counseling before they file for bankruptcy relief. The bill excuses a chapter 13 debtor from this requirement if he or she submits to the court a certification that a foreclosure action has been commenced against the debtor’s home. “And, this legislation provides important protections against lenders assessing excessive fees and hidden charges against chapter 13 debtors who are trying to save their homes from foreclosure. “The Emergency Home Ownership and Mortgage Equity Protection Act is a measured response to the mortgage crisis and one that I strongly support. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this Subcommittee as well as the full Committee to move this bill and explore other necessary reforms. “It is my hope that today’s hearing will provide an opportunity for us to gain a better understanding of the causes and possible solutions to the mortgage mess facing consumers and our economy. “Accordingly, I look very much forward to today’s hearing and to receiving the testimony from all of our witnesses.”
09.18.2007	Washington -- On Tuesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez introduced the third piece of her five-part Safe Kids Initiative the Internet Safety Education Act, which provides federal support to programs that combat online bullies and predators. “These days, unlike when I was a kid, bullying doesn’t end when a child gets home; it follows him or her through e-mail and text messaging,” said Rep. Sánchez, a Member of the House Committees on Judiciary, and Education and Labor. “It is critical that we provide children, parents, educators, and communities with the tools they need to keep children safe online.” This bi-partisan bill would reauthorize Congressional funding for i-Safe, Inc., a program that uses classroom curriculum and community outreach to make the Internet a safer place. After completing the i-Safe program, 97 percent of children say they will tell a parent or guardian if someone makes them uncomfortable online. For the past three years, the non-profit program has used public and private funding to empower students, teachers, parents and law enforcement to make the internet a safer place. In addition to authorizing $5 million in federal funding over five years for i-Safe, the bill would also create a competitive grant program to help fund other internet safety education programs. A leader of Congressional efforts to increase child safety both in and out of school, Congresswoman Sánchez developed the Safe Kids Initiative to address this all-important issue on several fronts. The Safe Kids Initiative also includes the Bullying and Gang Reduction for Improved Education Act and the Safe Schools Improvement Act, which were introduced earlier this year. Both bills equip schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and harassment, providing safe learning environments to reduce the nation’s growing drop-out rate. Portions of these bills were included in draft legislation to reauthorize the No Child Left Behind Act that was unveiled earlier this month. “Bullying is not a harmless rite of passage for children,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Three-quarters of all school shooting incidents have been linked to bullying and harassment, and victims of bullying and harassment are more likely to be depressed or suicidal. This is a problem we need to fix.” A broad range of educational and other organizations have expressed support for the Safe Schools Improvement Act, including the American Library Association; the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network; the National Council of La Raza; and the Human Rights Campaign.
09.05.2007	Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, issued the following statement at the opening of Wednesday’s legislative hearing on H.R. 2015, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), in the Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor and Pensions. Congresswoman Sánchez is an original co-sponsor of ENDA, which prohibits workplace discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. “Thank you, Chairman Andrews. As an original co-sponsor and strong supporter of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, I appreciate your work to put together this hearing so that we can learn more, and the American people can learn more, about the employment discrimination that takes place here in Americalegallyevery day. More importantly, this hearing gives us an opportunity to do something about it. “Ending employment discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender people by enacting ENDA is such a common sense solution, and consistent with the American principles of freedom, justice, and equality that it’s amazing to me that in 2007, we still haven’t passed this bill. “ENDA is the most important civil rights bill that we will have the opportunity to pass during the current Congressional cycle. “Americans believe that if you work hard and do your job, you should be rewarded. And, Americans believe that this basic principle should apply across the board. “Poll after poll reveals that an overwhelming majority of Americans agree someone shouldn’t lose a job or be denied a promotion simply for being gay or lesbian. “Americans also believe that it is already illegal to do so. Unfortunately, in many states, it isn’t. That’s why today’s hearing is so important. “Passing ENDA is consistent with the other work we are doing in this Committee, and throughout the House, to protect America’s workers. We have acted to increase the minimum wage, to make college more affordable, and to strengthen Title VII so that companies cannot hide gender discrimination behind secretive wage policies. “We have acted to ensure that employers provide mental health care as part of their health benefits and to promote wage parity between men and women. Now, we are acting to protect gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender workers from on-the-job discrimination. It’s been a long time coming. “It is NOT OK to deny someone a job, a raise, or a promotion because of his or her real or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. And now is the time for Congress to say so. After more than thirty years of struggle, we have a chance to give this important issue the attention it deserves. “The American people are counting on us to make the law consistent with our values. I am proud that, as a member of this Committee, I can help make that happen. “Again, thank you Mr. Chairman.”
07.26.2007	Washington, DC - Marking the second anniversary of congressional passage of the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), U.S. Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Reps. Linda Sánchez (D-CA) and Hilda L. Solis (D-CA) today slammed the Bush administration's broken trade policy. Brown also today met with Dr. Otton Solís, a 2006 presidential candidate in Costa Rica and former member of the Costa Rican Legislative Assembly. Solís ran on an anti-CAFTA platform, ending in a virtual tie with former President Óscar Arias, prompting a manual recount which Arias won. "As an impending referendum on CAFTA approaches in Costa Rica, Dr. Solis today offered a strong critique of this trade model and its detrimental effect on his country," Senator Brown added "The demand for fair trade is an international priority." “CAFTA is part of the Bush Administration’s flawed trade policy in which corporations are the winners, not the people. I commend Otton Solís for his leadership on this critical issue and urge Costa Ricans to vote against CAFTA’s implementation,” said Congresswoman Hilda L. Solis (D-CA). “Because of the absence of strong labor protections, CAFTA allows Central American nations to continue its exploitation of workers. Our trade policy should lift people out of poverty, not keep them there.” "The problem with CAFTA is that it is not about trade. CAFTA is mainly about countries sacrificing sovereignty to place power in the hands of large corporations. It is an agreement that ignores the interests of small businesses and consumers both in Costa Rica and in the United States. The word protectionism has been misused when it comes to treaties like CAFTA. The weakest are the ones who should be protected and here we are in CAFTA protecting large multinationals, Hollywood DVDs and drug companies," said Dr. Otton Solís. A referendum on CAFTA is schedule to be held in Costa Rica on October 7. Two years ago, the House of Representatives pushed through an expansion of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to five Central American countries and the Dominican Republic, despite widespread opposition in the U.S. and abroad. Brown, Solis, and Sánchez led a bipartisan, bicameral coalition, the largest ever formed, in opposition. On July 28, 2005, Republican House leaders kept the vote for CAFTA open in the middle of the night until reaching a narrow majority, passing 217-215. "Voters in November spoke out against the job-killing trade pacts and fundamentally-flawed trade policy of the last decade," Senator Brown said "The current trade policy in Washington protects multinational corporations and big drug companies while it exploits workers and hurts U.S. business. Our current trade system is not sustainable. We want trade and plenty of it - but under new rules." "CAFTA has produced a two-year record of economic failure and social inequality," said Congresswoman Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. "It is time to scrap bad trade deals built on the failed NAFTA model and create a trade policy that helps working families in the U.S. and in all partner nations. CAFTA is now entering the 'terrible two's.' Don't expect us to celebrate." This fall, Congress is expected to debate proposed free trade agreements with Peru, Panama, Colombia, and South Korea based largely on the NAFTA model. Last month, the president's Trade Promotion Authority, part of the so-called 'Fast Track' process, expired, effectively restoring Congress' constitutional authority over trade policy-making. Brown emphasized the need for future trade agreements to have enforceable labor, environmental, and anti-counterfeiting standards, as well as safeguards against currency manipulation. "Congress is already hard at work building a better trade policy, and as we debate these new agreements this fall, I look forward to changing our country's approach to trade," Senator Brown concluded.
07.25.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced today that she has secured initial support for $3 million in federal funding for California State University Long Beach’s Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies, a cutting-edge maritime and logistics research institution. The funds, which were included in the Defense Appropriations bill, will support research on critical maritime military and commercial transportation issues, including the efficient movement of military and civilian cargo through local ports, as well as the effectiveness of cargo port and supply chain security. The bill must now be passed by the full House of Representatives and the Senate and be signed by the President to become law. “Cal State Long Beach has a long history of innovation in improving the movement of military and commercial cargo from ports,” said Rep. Sánchez. “I am pleased that this new funding I have secured will allow CSULB to work with our local Gateway Cities Council of Governments and others to expand its research into environmentally friendly inland cargo systems that reduce the use of trucks.” Rep. Sánchez praised the work of the Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies in improving the movement of military and commercial cargo from ports, and was pleased to be able to work with its leaders to ensure this funding emphasized the development of environmentally-friendly technologies, including high-speed transportation that will help alleviate traffic and improve local air quality. The Center for the Commercial Deployment of Transportation Technologies is a U.S. Navy approved and supported research and development institution. The Center’s Agile Port and High Speed Ship Technology program, which will be funded by this appropriation, has become a research leader on transitional military deployment requirements and commercial efforts to enhance the competitive position of the U.S. flag fleet. The federal investments for the 2008 fiscal year are the first to be made under the new Democratic “pay-as-you-go” rules for federal appropriations, which require that appropriation increases be offset by funding cuts elsewhere. “Congress has a responsibility to make sure taxpayer dollars are spent wisely, and our new leadership takes that seriously,” added Rep. Sánchez. “Our budget for this year restores budget discipline while making smart investments in our communities.”
07.23.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives that would equip schools with the resources they need to prevent school bullying and harassment. The Safe Schools Improvement Act would give students a safe learning environment and reduce the nation’s growing drop-out rate. “Bullying is not a harmless rite of passage for children,” said Rep. Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. “Three-quarters of all school shooting incidents have been linked to bullying and harassment, and victims of bullying and harassment are more likely to be depressed or suicidal. “This is a problem we can and should fix,” added Rep. Sánchez. Research has also shown that bullying and harassment are serious problems that impede students’ academic progress and overall mental health. Studies have found that nearly one-third of all students are bullied at least once a month and that one out of every ten high school drop-outs left school because of repeated bullying. The Safe Schools Improvement Act would amend the Safe and Drug Free Schools and Communities Act to include specific provisions to prevent bullying and harassment. It would require states and districts to include information regarding the prevalence of bullying and harassment in schools as part of the needs assessments they are already required to complete. Inclusion of this data will help ensure that schools and districts are properly equipped to handle bullying and harassment. In addition, the Safe Schools Improvement Act would require every school to include policies to address bullying and harassment in their codes of conduct. This bill, which may be included as part of legislation to reauthorize the No Child Left Behind Act, also defines the terms “bullying” and “harassment” to include them in the broad definition of school violence. A broad range of educational and non-educational organizations has expressed support for the Safe Schools Improvement Act, including the American Library Association; the National PTA; the American Federation of Teachers; Big Brothers Big Sisters of America; the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network; the National Council of La Raza; and the Human Rights Campaign.
07.09.2007	Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, released the following statement today in response to the White House's announcement that it will neither comply with Congressional subpoenas into the investigation of the mass firing of U.S. Attorneys nor explain its assertion of executive privilege. "The White House is acting like a kid who tries to get away with something wrong by putting his hands over his eyes and saying he’s invisible. It didn’t work in pre-school, and it won’t work now. "The White House could have ended this investigation months ago by actually fulfilling its promise to get to the facts of who made the decision to fire these U.S. Attorneys, and why these federal prosecutors were fired. Instead, the White House seems to be throwing up every stonewalling technique they know to run down the clock on their time in office."
06.25.2007	Washington - The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass a resolution by Rep. Linda Sánchez that would provide a long overdue recognition to thousands of Vietnam War veterans for their dedicated service to our country. The passage of Rep. Sánchez’ “Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day” resolution (H. Res. 189) comes a week after she hosted a community veterans forum with local veterans to discuss their access to health and other services. “Our government has an obligation to serve those who have served our country,” said Rep. Sánchez. “That responsibility starts with me, which is why I have been working on veterans issues since coming to Congress.” Rep. Sánchez began her work on the “Welcome Home Vietnam Vets Day” resolution in 2003 following a discussion with Jose Ramos, a Vietnam veteran from Whittier. Passage of the resolution by the 110th Congress, which enjoyed broad bipartisan support, comes after Rep. Sánchez introduced it in the 108th and 109th Congresses. “I introduced this resolution to establish a Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day,’ because giving our veterans the heroes’ welcome they deserve is long overdue,” added Rep. Sánchez. Earlier this month, Rep. Sánchez hosted a community forum on veterans’ issues in Artesia, with representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Long Beach VA Hospital, and the Disabled American Veterans. Approximately 35 local veterans and family members attended the forum to participate in an open dialogue on healthcare, services, and benefits. The forum also shed light on specific obstacles in the VA process that veterans face while applying for and receiving these services and benefits. “Today’s vote by the House of Representatives to pass the 'Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans Day’ resolution is an important and long overdue tribute to the men and women who served our great nation in uniform in Vietnam,” said Rep. Sánchez. “Every time I talk with veterans in our community, though, I remember that we have much more work to do.”
06.12.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, issued the following statement as part of the subcommittee’s oversight hearing into the fairness of mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts. Chairwoman Sánchez called the hearing to evaluate how companies may be using the Federal Arbitration Act of 1925 to establish systems where consumers have very limited recourse in cases like cell phone or credit card disputes. "In 1925, Congress passed the Federal Arbitration Act to free up the courts from an increasingly heavy docket and to place arbitration agreements on the same footing as contracts. At the time, Congress found several benefits to arbitration including lower costs than litigating in the courts, a choice of neutral arbitrators with expertise in the disputed area of law, and a quicker resolution to the dispute. "However, the use of arbitration has expanded from simply involving disputes between commercial parties to issues between consumers and businesses, employees and employers, and shareholders and corporations. This once rare alternative to litigation has become commonplace, and arbitration clauses are now frequently included in legal contracts of every variety. "As arbitration has increased in popularity, what was once a choice has become a mandatory part of consumer contracts. In fact, according to a 2004 survey, one-third of all our major consumer transactions are covered by mandatory arbitration clauses. And despite all of the benefits of arbitration, mandatory arbitration agreements may not always be in the best interests of consumers. "Mandatory or binding arbitration clauses in agreements may require consumers to pay fees to arbitrate a claim or travel several states away for complaint proceedings. Advocates also have shown that businesses often fare better than consumers in arbitration matters. In one instance, it was reported that a bank won an astonishing 99.6% of the almost 20,000 arbitration cases in which it participated. Besides the advantage for “regular customers” in the arbitration game, there are real questions about due process and the non-public nature of arbitration decisions. "Considering that the Federal Arbitration Act was created only to cover businesses in equal bargaining positions, we have to wonder how today’s current use of arbitration agreements comport with the legislative history and the spirit of the Act. Congress must now carefully consider whether arbitration is fair for all of the parties to a dispute. "Today’s oversight hearing will provide an opportunity to learn more about the effect of arbitration on consumers and whether mandatory binding arbitration clauses are an equitable use of the arbitration process. "First, we must review the history of arbitration and the reasons that Congress codified it. Second, we must understand how the use of arbitration has evolved since 1925, and how it came to be used in the consumer-business context of today. Finally, we must decide how best to ensure that the benefits of arbitration are maintained while addressing its negative aspects. It is also important to note that several bills regarding arbitration agreements have been introduced. "To help us learn more about mandatory binding arbitration agreements, we have four witnesses with us this afternoon. We are pleased to have F. Paul Bland, Jr., an attorney at Trial Lawyers for Public Justice; Jordan Fogal, an author and a consumer advocate; Mark Levin, a partner at Ballard Spahr Andrews &amp; Ingersoll; and David S. Schwartz, a professor at the University of Wisconsin Law School."
06.07.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez delivered the following remarks today at a press conference with other Members of Congress and human rights advocates. Congresswoman Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Committee on Education and Labor, recently returned from Colombia, where she met with political leaders and workers. "I just returned from a trip to Colombia. This was my second trip to Colombia in the last 7 months. "Colombia is a wonderful country with great people, a vibrant culture and a growing economy. It is clear that Colombia has made great progress in rising above the dark period of violence that gripped the country for too long. "I would like to see our two countries strengthen our relationship. This is why I am committed to a new and better trade model that will actually help working families in both countries. "We all know that the Bush-Colombia Free Trade Agreement is not going to do that. "The proposed Free Trade Agreement is built on the same failed framework as the NAFTA. Despite negotiations between the Bush Administration and Congress, this FTA still has too many of the same poisonous NAFTA provisions. "We have seen the failures of the NAFTA model over the last decade. The truth is that the FTA model is designed to favor the wealthiest few and corporate bottom line at the expense of workers. "NAFTA has shown that we need demonstrated proof that worker protections are being enforced. "While the Colombian government has made progress on national safety, there are still significant concerns about human rights abuses targeting worker advocates. These concerns have increased with reports that government resources may have been used to help paramilitary groups target labor activists. "The safety of Colombian workers is too important to risk. We need to see results. "I am also concerned that the FTA will gut Colombia’s legitimate agricultural industry. Colombian farmers will be forced to compete with subsidized crops in the United States. Many farmers will be forced to choose between leaving their farms for crowded factories or growing lucrative drug crops. "Since President Bush is not interested in changing this or other failed policies, I'd like to see President Uribe take the lead on a better trade agreement. "President Uribe should prove not just declare -- his commitment to lowering the rate of violence against worker advocates. This would include meeting certain benchmarks BEFORE any agreement would come into effect, including fewer reports of physical assault or threats against labor organizers, and increased prosecution of offenders over at least a two-year period. "This would also require a full and open investigation into reports that government intelligence services helped paramilitary groups target labor organizers for assault. "President Uribe has declared his support for U.S.-funded drug eradication programs in Colombia. He should agree to a provision that would nullify the trade agreement if drug cultivation in Colombia rises to hit certain trigger marks, while we agree to improve our efforts to reduce American demand for drugs. "Finally, President Uribe needs to declare his support for re-opening the negotiated agreement to incorporate these and other protections into the actual agreement. No more unenforceable, lip-service side agreements! "The Colombian people deserve better than this bad trade deal, and so do American working families. "If our President won’t stand up for them, I hope that President Uribe will."
05.23.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, issued the following statement as part of the House Judiciary Committee's oversight hearing into the Bush Administration's mass firing of U.S. Attorneys with Monica Goodling, former Senior Counsel to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and Justice Department Liaison with the White House. The start of the 110th Congress came with the promise that our new leadership would exercise real oversight on the Bush Administration for the first time since it came to power. With leaders like Chairman John Conyers, Congress is committed to doing the job given to us in the Constitution, which includes providing checks against a potential expansion of executive power that would threaten the very health of our democracy. While this Congress takes that lofty responsibility very seriously, the origins of this investigation were more mundane. Following the unprecedented mass firing of seven U.S. Attorneys in December 2006, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law began to consider legislation by my colleague Congressman Howard Berman that would close a quietly inserted loophole in the USA Patriot Act that allowed the Attorney General to bypass Senate confirmation in appointing indefinite replacements for U.S. Attorneys. Initial research into the matter indicated that some of these prosecutors may have been fired for refusing to make prosecutorial decisions based on partisan considerations. The House Judiciary Committee then began this investigation to answer two fundamental questions: Who made the decision to fire these federal prosecutors, and why were these prosecutors targeted? In the months since, we have learned through interviews, evidence review, and media reports that some U.S. Attorneys may have been pressured by local party leaders and Members of Congress to pursue or cease public corruption cases. We have learned that the White House initiated the plan to mass fire U.S. Attorneys and had an undetermined role in the development of the firing list. We have also learned that the Attorney General signed a secret order giving unprecedented personnel decision-making power to two junior aides, including Ms. Goodling, as well questionable hiring and policy priorities in other Justice Department divisions. The implications of these findings are chilling. At best, we have a Justice Department plagued by rampant cronyism and reckless managerial dereliction. At worst, we may have uncovered a systematic campaign to use the American system of justice for the simple purpose of helping one party win elections. That is why we are having this hearing - to get to the truth. After numerous interviews and extensive review of thousands of pages of documents, the Bush Administration has not yet provided clear and credible answers to our two fundamental questions. We have talked to almost every senior Justice Department official who was or should have been involved in the plan to fire U.S. Attorneys, and none can recall or take responsibility for the development of the firing list. Monica Goodling, former Senior Counsel to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and the Justice Department's White House liaison, is the last remaining senior Justice Department official to testify, and she should be able to offer a unique insight into this matter. In addition to her unprecedented authority over personnel decisions, interviews with Justice Department officials and released documents also indicate that Ms. Goodling had a central role in coordinating the mass firings with the White House. Ms. Goodling's testimony is necessary and relevant. After initially trying to invoke her Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination, this Committee passed - with broad bipartisan support - an offer of immunity which has compelled her to testify before us today. I hope that she can shed light on why the Bush Administration gave inexperienced and ideological neophytes unprecedented authority to hire and fire Justice Department personnel, as well as provide information on the development of the list of at least nine U.S. Attorneys that were eventually fired. There is no overstating the importance of this investigation. Contrary to the criticism of some, this Committee is not interested in partisan grandstanding. And while we regard perjury as a serious offense that warrants accountability, we are not playing a game of testimony "gotcha." We are here today because the prospect that partisan motivations are driving our justice system poses a critical threat to the health of our democracy. Simply put, the American people need to know that they will not be arrested or prosecuted for the sole reason of helping any political party win elections. We have seen several troubling developments since this investigation began. At least four senior Justice Department officials have resigned in the wake of the U.S. Attorney firings, including Ms. Goodling. The Justice Department and the White House have each launched internal investigations. Most troubling, however, were the recent statements by two former U.S. Attorneys - professional prosecutors - whose expertise leads them to believe that there will be criminal charges as a result of the firings. I hope this investigation discovers nothing more nefarious than simple managerial incompetence. Frankly, the alternatives would be deeply disturbing signs about the health of our justice system and our democracy. I hope that Ms. Goodling can provide clear and credible answers today that alleviate these concerns. If, however, this hearing continues the trend of selective memory and evasive testimony, this Committee will be forced to focus outside the Justice Department in its search for answers.
05.16.2007	Washington - Congressman Linda Sánchez today announced that Senator Barbara Boxer has initially secured a $4 million authorization of federal funds to improve La Mirada’s aging flood control system. Congresswoman Sánchez asked Senator Boxer to include the project in the Senate’s renewal of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which passed the Senate today by a vote of 91-4. The WRDA authorization will allow Congresswoman Sánchez and Senator Boxer to seek up to $4 million in federal money in future years to help fund, under the direction of the City of La Mirada, improvements to the city’s flood control system, which has been prone to localized flooding. Without the key WRDA authorization, the La Mirada project would not have been able to receive construction funds from the federal government. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $125,000 in 2005 to fund the study phase of this project, which would incorporate environmentally-friendly innovations like bio-swales to clean stormwater runoff and prevent ocean pollution. “Today’s WRDA vote opens the door for bringing federal investments home for an innovative flood control system that will help protect homes in La Mirada from flood damage while also enhancing our environment,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This project will demonstrate that even small changes in the way we build our communities can create lasting benefits.” “I am especially grateful for the leadership of Senator Barbara Boxer in making this happen,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “Senator Boxer understands that funds for local infrastructure projects are smart investments in our communities.” Members of the Senate and the House of Representatives will need to meet in a conference committee to work out any differences between their respective WRDA bills. The final bill would then need to be passed by both chambers before going to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
05.10.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, issued the following statement as part of the House Judiciary Committee’s oversight hearing with Attorney General Alberto Gonzales regarding the Bush Administration’s mass firing of U.S. Attorneys: The House Judiciary Committee started this investigation of the mass firing of U.S. Attorneys because of the prospect that partisan politics had contaminated our system of justice. Over the last two months, we have unfortunately seen numerous signs that U.S. Attorneys and other Justice Department officials may have been hired and fired for the simple purpose of giving a political party an electoral advantage. I simply cannot overstate how dangerous a threat this is. Partisanship in our justice system is a cancer it threatens our very democracy and system of laws. Of course, the President has a right to dismiss political appointees, including U.S. Attorneys. However, neither the President nor his designees have the right to remove them in order to interfere with ongoing investigations or to retaliate against a U.S. Attorney for not prosecuting cases that would benefit a particular political party. Removing a U.S. Attorney for refusing to make a prosecutorial decision for political reasons would represent a serious threat to the very notions of fairness on which our justice system rests. Politics should not be injected into decisions to bring the full force of the law against an individual. Simply put, the American people need to know that political calculations do not determine whether an individual is arrested or prosecuted. That is why we need to get to the truth on two central questions: Who made the decision to mass fire U.S. Attorneys, and why were these particular U.S. Attorneys targeted? To date, we still have not gotten clear and credible answers to our questions. For example, two high-level Department of Justice officials have testified before the Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law about six of the eight U.S. Attorneys who were recently fired. Members of the Subcommittee received starkly different accounts as to why an unprecedented number of U.S. Attorneys were fired mid-term, without cause, and without explanation. First, on March 6, 2007, William E. Moschella, the Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General, testified that the U.S. Attorneys were removed for "performance-related reasons" and provided specific rationales justifying each dismissal. On May 3, 2007, former Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey, whose job for more than two years included supervising all 93 U.S. Attorneys, testified that he was very familiar with several of the prosecutors who were eventually fired and praised the work of U.S. Attorneys Daniel Bogden, Paul Charlton, David Iglesias, Carol Lam, and John McKay. Mr. Comey’s testimony seriously questioned whether the rationales put forth by Mr. Moschella were the actual reasons for the dismissals. We have learned that the Bush Administration exploited a newly created loophole in the PATRIOT Act to purge high-performing federal prosecutors while they were in the midst of high-profile public corruption investigations involving Republican officials. While the Administration has insisted it never intended to use this loophole to bypass Senate confirmation for appointing U.S. Attorneys, our investigation has uncovered communications and testimony that suggest otherwise. We have learned that U.S. Attorneys were rated on a removal list based in large part on whether they were "loyal Bushies." However, after numerous interviews with Justice Department officials, limited access to Department documents, and no access to White House officials or documents, it is still unclear who within the Administration was responsible for placing those particular U.S. Attorneys on the list. Unfortunately, the Attorney General’s prepared testimony does not seem to shed any additional light on the issue. The Attorney General acknowledges that U.S. Attorneys should not be replaced "in order to impede or speed along particular criminal investigations." While the Attorney General indicates that he has "no basis to believe that anyone involved in this process sought the removal of a U.S. Attorney for an improper reason," he has consistently stated that he did not have specific knowledge about how or why these U.S. Attorneys got on the firing list. If he has no knowledge of how or why these eight U.S. Attorneys were selected for firing, on what basis can he assure us that they were not fired for an improper reason? His assurance that no U.S. Attorney was fired for an improper reason rings hollow, which may bring us to a turning point. The House Judiciary Committee has talked to almost every current and former senior Justice Department official who was or at least should have been involved with any decision to fire federal prosecutors. Not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. Attorneys were added to the firing list. Unless the Attorney General finally provides some clear and credible answers, it looks like we’ll have to shift our focus outside the Department. It appears increasingly clear that the truth can only be found in the White House. It is my hope that in his testimony today, the Attorney General will clarify the true rationales for the firings and pledge the Justice Department’s full cooperation with our investigation. I also hope that in light of this controversy surrounding U.S. Attorneys, the Attorney General will take significant steps toward depoliticizing the Department of Justice. We have heard from current and former Justice Department employees that morale in the Department is at its lowest point in generations, while politicization is at its peak. Far-reaching steps need to be taken to restore the integrity and prestige of the Justice Department. Today’s hearing will give us some indication whether the current Attorney General is up to that task.
05.03.2007	Washington - In testimony today before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), former Deputy Attorney General James B. Comey praised the work of several of the U.S. Attorneys fired last year by the Bush Administration and discussed the process that led to their terminations. CAL Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez called the hearing to continue the House Judiciary Committee’s investigation into the Bush Administration’s mass firing of U.S. Attorneys. During Comey’s service as the second-in-charge at the Justice Department, he was the direct supervisor of all 93 U.S. Attorney offices across the country. Comey told the subcommittee that he was very familiar with several of the prosecutors who were eventually fired and praised the work of U.S. Attorneys Daniel Bogden, Paul Charlton, David Iglesias, Carol Lam, and John McKay. "James Comey is a respected prosecutor who served the American people well as a U.S. Attorney as well as Deputy Attorney General," said House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. "Today, we further confirmed that the Department's stated reasons for firing the six U.S. Attorneys who testified before this Committee had little or no basis in fact.” Despite his position overseeing the U.S. Attorneys, Comey testified that he had not been informed that a process had begun to replace multiple federal prosecutors. He recalled a fifteen-minute meeting in February 2005 with Kyle Sampson, former Chief of Staff to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales one of only two discussions where he was asked to give an offhand assessment of poor-performing U.S. Attorneys. “Mr. Comey’s testimony today was important and, frankly, refreshing,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “He clearly understands the importance of protecting the justice system from partisan pressures, which may explain his apparently unique ability among senior Justice Department officials to remember discussions about mass firing U.S. Attorneys.” “We also learned that the list of U.S. Attorneys to be fired seems to have been created through immaculate conception,” added Chairman Conyers. “Mr. Comey, like everyone else in the Department so far, does not know who put these prosecutors on the firing list or why. This makes testimony from Monica Goodling and White House officials all the more crucial."
05.02.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, issued the following statement on the passage of the Improving Head Start Act of 2007, which passed the House of Representatives with broad bi-partisan support by a vote of 365-48. Congresswoman Sánchez co-sponsored the act, which improves and reauthorizes the Head Start early childhood development and education program. “Head Start has helped generations of deserving children get ready for a lifetime of learning. My family has seen first-hand how Head Start can level the playing field for working class children who don't have all the benefits that more advantaged homes can provide. “After being sidelined by the last two Congresses, our bill will build on the legacy of success and make Head Start even better. We are improving classroom quality by raising the qualifications of teachers and supporting their professional development. Our bill updates Head Start by using the latest and best science on early childhood brain development to strengthen the focus on school readiness. “Our bill is backing up these investments with strong accountability measures to make sure the funds are used well. “Head Start is about helping less fortunate kids build better lives. By renewing Head Start, we’re making an investment in the lives of our children and the health of our communities.”
05.01.2007	Washington - Chairwoman Linda Sánchez announced today that the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL) voted to subpoena former Deputy Attorney General James Comey as part of the Judiciary Committee’s investigation into the Bush Administration’s plan to fire U.S. Attorneys. Following the vote, Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. issued the subpoena requiring Comey’s testimony before the CAL Subcommittee at an oversight hearing scheduled for Thursday, May 3. Comey was previously informed of the move to issue the subpoena and agreed to testify at the hearing. Comey was second in command at the Justice Department when records indicate that discussions began between the White House and Justice Department over the mass firing of U.S. Attorneys. “James Comey has earned a reputation in the law enforcement community of fairness and commitment to justice,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “I believe Mr. Comey can clear up some of the confusion created by the contradicting stories we’ve been presented.” "We believe Mr. Comey's testimony will help the Committee piece together some of the missing parts of this puzzle," said Chairman Conyers.
05.01.2007	Washington - A panel of witnesses told the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL) that a set of sweeping changes to the federal bankruptcy laws passed in 2005 has wound up hurting honest consumers. As increasingly more homeowners fall victim to predatory and exotic mortgage loans, Chairwoman Sánchez called the hearing to look at how consumers have been affected by the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (Bankruptcy Act), which was passed by the last Congress. “Our bankruptcy system was created to help honest, yet unfortunate, individuals take responsibility and pay off their debts,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “However, the Bankruptcy Act of 2005 turned this system into a minefield of gotcha’s.’ This act is putting people through a bureaucratic maze when they are desperately working to regain their financial footing.” “The [Bankruptcy Act was] premised upon allegations that there was widespread abuse in the consumer bankruptcy system,” said Henry J. Sommer, the President of the National Association of Consumer Bankruptcy Attorneys. “The reality is that this was never true, and experience since the effective date of the amendments has borne that out.” Instead, Mr. Sommer said, “The biggest impact of the new law has been the enormous increase in the costs and burdens of filing an individual bankruptcy case.” The subcommittee also heard from Shirley Jones Burroughs, the wife of a U.S. Army Reservist currently serving in Iraq, who has been working to protect her house from foreclosure. Burroughs and her husband refinanced their home with a loan described as a “classic example of predatory mortgage lending” and began falling behind in repayment last year. “After exploring available options to try to save our home from foreclosure, we found that our only real option was to file a Chapter 13 bankruptcy case,” testified Burroughs, who works for an insurance company in Gastonia, North Carolina. Burroughs testified that, instead of providing the protection that would allow her family to manage and pay off its mortgage debt, the bankruptcy system has been plagued by numerous and confusing documents, which required the additional expense of hiring a lawyer. “[T]he 2005 amendments to the Bankruptcy Code are not protecting consumers,” said Mr. Sommer.
04.30.2007	LAKEWOOD - To recognize and encourage the artistic abilities and creative talent of high school students in the 39th Congressional District, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez hosted 2007 Annual 39th Congressional District Arts Competition Reception and Award Ceremony on Saturday, April 28th at the Centre at Sycamore Plaza in Lakewood. This year, Congresswoman Sánchez received a large number of submissions from throughout her district, which includes Lakewood, Cerritos, Whittier, Lynwood, Hawaiian Gardens, Artesia, La Mirada, Long Beach and South Gate. All of the submissions were displayed at the reception for public view in recognition of the student’s talent and hard work. “I love this competition because each year it shows me just how talented and creative our students are,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Their gifts deserve to be recognized and nurtured.” The event concluded with the recognition of the top four winners including the First Place winner, Daniel Santana. Daniel, a student at Lynwood High School, won with his drawing titled “American History Lesson Zero.” Daniel was invited to attend the National Congressional Arts Competition Reception in Washington, DC, this summer where his piece will be dedicated and displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building. A panel of local art experts selected the winning pieces. The remaining winners will have their works displayed in the Congressional Offices of Congresswoman Sánchez. They are as follows: Second Place: Aaron Mendoza, Mayfair H.S., Drawing: “Courage” Third Place (tie): Jenny Ha, Valley Christian H.S., Painting: “Painting” Third Place (tie): Madison Viestra, Artesia H.S., Photography: “Self-Portrait”
04.26.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez announced today that the House Judiciary Committee will continue its investigation into the firings of U.S. Attorneys by seeking the testimony of former Deputy Attorney General James Comey. The Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law Subcommittee (CAL) is scheduled to vote on Tuesday to authorize Committee Chairman John Conyers to subpoena Comey, who would then testify before the subcommittee in an open hearing on Thursday morning. Comey was second in command at the Justice Department when records indicate that discussions began between the White House and Justice Department over the mass firing of U.S. Attorneys. “James Comey had a distinguished career as a federal prosecutor prior to becoming Deputy Attorney General,” said Subcommittee Chairwoman Sánchez. “Chairman Conyers and I believe that he can shed light on the Bush Administration’s list of targeted U.S. Attorneys.” "Mr. Comey's testimony will help piece together critical gaps in our stream of information, particularly concerning the early phase of the process" said Chairman Conyers. "Mr. Comey's testimony is crucial." The meeting to authorize the issuance of a subpoena is scheduled for Tuesday, May 1 at 10:00 am in the Judiciary Committee Hearing Room (Rayburn 2141). Comey is then expected to testify before the CAL Subcommittee on Thursday, May 3 at 9:30 am. The House Judiciary Committee began the investigation with the subpoenaed testimony of six former U.S. Attorneys, which included concerns that their firings may have been driven by their refusal to make prosecutorial decisions for political reasons. The investigation has since included numerous interviews with current and former Justice Department staffers, including former Chief of Staff Kyle Sampson, who resigned over his involvement in the firings. The Committee voted earlier this week to compel testimony by providing immunity to the former Justice Department liaison to the White House, Monica Goodling, who has also resigned in the wake of the firings.
04.24.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez joined Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and the new Congressional majority in commemorating Equal Pay Day, which recognizes the right of women to earn equal pay for doing equal work. Each year, Equal Pay Day represents the number of days into the year the average woman must work just to earn the same amount as the average man earned by December 31 of the prior year. A recent study by the American Association of University Women shows that just one year after graduating from college, women earn 80 percent of what their male counterparts make, a gap that increases over time. The group’s research accounted for factors that can affect wages, including the number of hours worked, professional field and parenthood. The report found that these factors do not account for the entire pay gap, and concluded that it is likely due to sexual discrimination. “Pay inequality hurts all Americans, from the kitchen counter to the corporate board room,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, a Member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. “In my mother's generation, employers justified paying women less by explaining that men had families to support while women worked simply for 'pin money.' Today both the law and the reality have changed. When women unfairly receive lower wages, they have a harder time paying for everyday needs like food and healthcare and families suffer. “So long as we tolerate pay based on gender and not on performance, our overall economic strength will suffer," she continued. Congresswoman Sánchez is a co-sponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill that would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by providing training to help women negotiate better pay from the outset and by providing more effective penalties for those who violate the equal pay law. “While women have made tremendous progress in the workplace, we still have a lot of work left to achieve real fairness,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Paycheck Fairness Act is a step in the right direction.”
04.23.2007	Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today on the passing of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald. "I was saddened to hear the news of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald's passing yesterday. "Juanita was a trailblazer who broke down countless barriers for women and African-American leaders. While the history books will list the numerous accomplishments of her long career, I will remember her best as a champion for economic opportunity and empowerment for the people of Long Beach and Los Angeles. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to work with her on many issues important to the communities shared by our adjacent districts. "We in Congress will miss her insight and experience, and I am sure her constituents will miss her tireless advocacy on their behalf."
04.19.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling yesterday to uphold a law banning certain abortion procedures. "I find it deplorable that the U.S. Supreme Court has upheld a law that forbids doctors from performing medical procedures they deem necessary. The Court, by the narrowest of margins, has upheld this bad law that would force medical decisions to be made for political reasons. This decision is a sad step backwards for women and families, and it opens the door for further federal interference with intensely personal family planning decisions.”
04.17.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez secured a win for Southern California’s environment and water supply today, when the U.S. House of Representatives passed her bill, the “Southern California Water Augmentation Study Act” (H.R.786). The Water Augmentation Study, an innovative project by the Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council in conjunction with the United States Bureau of Reclamation, is developing systems to improve the local water supply and reduce ocean pollution. The Sánchez bill will enable the project to move from the study phase to begin the construction of a local pilot project in L.A. County. “We’re celebrating Earth Day a little early this year,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This local pilot project will demonstrate that even small changes in the way we build our communities can reduce ocean pollution and improve the quality of drinking water. This is a smart step towards making our region more self-sufficient and less dependent on drinking water sources outside of the Los Angeles area.” For five years, Congresswoman Sánchez has organized the efforts among 10 local Members of Congress, with the particular help of Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, to address the regional needs of increasing our local water supply and reducing stormwater pollution. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $1.05 million in federal appropriations over the last four years to fund the Water Augmentation Study. “We need drinking water and environmental protections for families today and for future generations,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It doesn’t get any more basic than that. “I am proud that my bill earned broad support from both Democratic and Republican colleagues,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “This bi-partisan support shows that people here in Washington increasingly understand the need to make smart investments - now - to protect the environment and scarce water supply in Southern California and across the country.” The Sánchez bill will now be considered by the U.S. Senate, before it can be signed into law by President Bush.
04.17.2007	Washington - At a hearing today in the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), a working single mother joined bankruptcy and employment experts to testify about the corporate practice of awarding extravagant compensation packages to senior executives while their companies are reorganizing under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez called the hearing to examine the effect of corporations rewarding executives while slashing jobs and employee health and retirement benefits. Witnesses told the panel of several instances of this practice, including the case of United Airlines, which awarded CEO Glenn Tilton with a $39.7 million package after the airline emerged from three years of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection that was financed, in part, by slashing salaries and pensions for 120,000 employees. “Chapter 11 protection was enacted to give all participants an equal say in how a business, struggling to overcome financial difficulties, should reorganize,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “We see the unfortunate reality, however, in the numerous Chapter 11 cases in which senior executives receive outrageously large compensation packages while - and indeed because - they simultaneously slash wages, benefits, and even jobs of their workers.” Antoinette Muoneke, a United flight attendant for 28 years, conveyed her experience as a working mother who, like other airline employees, agreed to dramatic salary and benefit cuts during the airline’s bankruptcy struggles. “We made painful concessions that affected our families, threatened our children’s opportunities, decreased our ability to afford healthcare and destroyed retirement security,” said Ms. Muoneke, who testified that she had to increase her workload and time away from her daughter by 40 percent to make ends meet. “We made these sacrifices for the long-term viability of the companies we worked so hard to build and hope will continue to succeed.” United Airlines CEO Glenn Tilton declined an invitation by the CAL Subcommittee to offer his testimony. “Workers in Chapter 11 cases across a wide range of industries are paying an enormous price under threats that their labor agreements will be rejected, their jobs will be outsourced and retirement security threatened,” said Damon A. Silvers, Associate General Counsel for the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO). “Meanwhile, company executives and management move quickly to secure their own agreements &amp; with new, lucrative programs that insulate them from the economic dislocation of the company.” “Airline Executives were well paid before the bankruptcy and I don’t begrudge them fair compensation,” said Ms. Muoneke. “But explain to me this, Madame Chairperson, how is it that their pay can skyrocket while the average worker is made to suffer like this? If your answer is that it’s because the law allows it, then it’s time to change the law.”
04.12.2007	Cerritos - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today issued the following statement on her decision to suspend her membership in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for the 110th Congress. “I have decided to suspend my membership in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) for the 110th Congress because I believe that the current leadership has not made needed structural reforms to ensure that the caucus is more equitable and inclusive of all its members. “Since joining Congress, I have worked to address the challenges facing the Latino community and all Americans. My decision today does not change this commitment and I will continue to work with my colleagues, including those in the CHC, to advance this cause. “I will continue to serve on the Board of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, a non-profit organization that plays an important role in training the next generation of Hispanic leaders through its scholarship, fellowship and internship programs. “I look forward to resuming my full membership of the CHC in the future. In the meantime, I will continue to do my part to push for progress on important issues such as charting a new direction for the war in Iraq, comprehensive immigration reform, civil rights, access to a quality education, and the expansion of small business opportunities. I hope that by making this announcement now, we can end the continued attention on internal CHC deliberations that has distracted time and effort from the issues that are more directly relevant to our constituents."
03.27.2007	Washington - Working to recognize the artistic talents and creative spirit of California’s high school youth, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez is pleased to hold her annual “Artistic Discovery” High School Congressional Arts Competition again this year. “I love this competition because each year it shows me just how talented and creative our students are,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Their gifts deserve to be recognized and nurtured.” A panel of local art experts will select the winning pieces. Artists may create a piece specifically for the competition or submit a previously created work. The overall winner will have the honor of attending a ceremony in the U.S. Capitol and having his or her work on display in the Capitol for one year. The winning art pieces will be displayed in corridors of the Capitol to be viewed by thousands of people throughout the year. Congresswoman Sánchez will display the works of the second and third place finishers in her Congressional Office in Washington, DC and in her local office in Cerritos. She will also host a reception on Saturday, April 28th at the Centre at Sycamore Plaza, located at 5000 Clark Ave. in Lakewood, from 11:00 am - 1:30 pm, where all submissions will be displayed for public view and students will be recognized and honored for their talent and hard work. Students can visit www.lindasanchez.house.gov or contact their High School Art Department for more information. Students must be from the 39th Congressional District of California to participate. The deadline to submit artwork is Friday, April 6th, 2007.
03.23.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, issued the following statement on her decision to vote in support of the “U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health, and Iraq Accountability Act.” The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 218-212. “I voted today in favor of the Congressional funding plan to support our troops and bring an end to our country’s involvement in the war in Iraq. While I would have preferred a bill to bring our troops home sooner, this plan provides the best alternative for ending the Bush Administration’s open-ended commitment to a failed strategy and for taking care of those who have served our country in the line of duty. “This bill answers the call that the American people made last November for a new direction in Iraq. Our bill requires that the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq begin by March 1, 2008 - or even sooner should the Iraqi government fail to take responsibility for improving its own security. The bill requires American troops to be out of harm's way in Iraq by August 1, 2008. “We are increasing President Bush’s proposed budget for providing health care for current troops and returning veterans by $3.5 billion. We add funding so that our armed forces at home, stretched too thin now, will be ready for unforeseen threats. We are making sure that the troops in Afghanistan, the longtime base of Al Qaeda, have the resources they need to complete the job that the Administration seems to have forgotten. “We are requiring accountability by instituting - and not just talking about - benchmarks that the Bush Administration developed for the performance of the Iraqi government. “This has been the most difficult vote I’ve had to make in Congress. I have talked with families at home who have lost loved ones in Iraq, and I have gone to Walter Reed Army Medical Center to visit wounded troops. These individuals and families have paid the price for a failed strategy that attempts to impose a military solution on a political problem. “I truly believe that this war is immoral. I believe we should get the brave women and men of our armed forces out of the middle of an Iraqi civil war. They should not continue to pay the price for poor planning and poor decision-making by the White House. “After careful consideration, I realized that this Congressional plan is the strongest, most realistic option for changing the failed strategy in Iraq. I wish this bill were not necessary, but after four years of immeasurable losses in Iraq and misinformation from the Bush Administration, Congress had to act. “President Bush ignored the message of voters last November. I hope that he is listening today to this message: there are no more blank checks for this war.”
03.19.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement following the start of the fifth year of the war in Iraq. “Today marks another unfortunate milestone for the tragic war in Iraq. “We frequently read the costs of the war as staggering numbers - four years of combat, $400 billion of taxpayer dollars, and worst of all, more than 3,200 fallen U.S. troops. After frequent talks with wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, as well as with families who have lost loved ones in Iraq, it is clear that the actual costs of the war transcend numbers. “The beginning of this war’s fifth year is the beginning of its end. The American people have made it very clear that they do not support our current open-ended commitment to this war, nor the recent decision to send at least 21,000 more young women and men into harm’s way. “For the first time since this war began, Congress is listening. There will be no more blank checks for the war in Iraq. “
03.16.2007	(Washington, DC) - Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) and Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez (D-CA) issued the following statements in response to the White House's failure to comply with today's deadline to produce documents and schedule interviews for White House staff regarding the ongoing US Attorneys scandal. Conyers: “The White House Counsel’s office advised my staff this afternoon that the White House would not be providing documents to the Committee, or providing the White House’s position with respect to the Committee securing the testimony of White House officials today. This is contrary to earlier assurances that the Committee would receive these answers and documents today and is, therefore, very disappointing. The Counsel’s office has assured me that they will continue to work in good faith to get answers to those questions by early next week. "Despite those assurances and my continued hope that the White House will resolve these questions in a cooperative fashion, the Committee must take steps to ensure that we are not being stonewalled or slow walked on this matter. I will schedule a vote to issue subpoenas for the documents and officials we need to talk to. Allegations that our criminal justice has been undermined by partisan politics and that the Congress was deceived about these activities are among the most serious this Congress will consider and we expect immediate answers.” Sánchez: “The White House is playing a dangerous game of chicken. The House Judiciary Committee has been operating in good faith to get to the bottom of this growing scandal, and Chairman Conyers has shown particular restraint in working towards voluntary cooperation. “Today, however, the White House has chosen to ignore the deadline for information on its role in firing federal prosecutors, after publicly stating a commitment to finding the truth. This commitment - like the Bush Administration’s ever-changing version of what actually happened - seems to have a very short shelf-life. "We will not stop our investigation until we know who ordered the purge of federal prosecutors, why they did it, and who is trying to cover it up. The White House can’t ignore this investigation." A vote will be scheduled next week and subpoenas could be issued for White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Political Director Scott Jennings, former White House Counsel Harriet Miers, Deputy Counsel William Kelley, and possibly others.
03.15.2007	Washington - Today, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, issued the following statement in response to recent reports that members of President George W. Bush’s inner circle - including Karl Rove and Alberto Gonzales - were directly involved in a White House plot to purge U.S. Attorneys. “These emails, if the reports are accurate, are the clearest evidence that the Bush Administration has been lying to the public, the Congress, and perhaps even among its own ranks, about its scheme to purge federal prosecutors. This would be a deliberate attempt to place partisan ideology at the center of the justice system in a way not seen since the Watergate scandal. “It is time for the Bush Administration to come clean. Who made the decision to fire these U.S. Attorneys, why did they do it, and who orchestrated the attempts to mislead the public on this issue?”
03.11.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee oversight hearing on “Deferred Prosecution: Should Corporate Settlements Be Without Guidelines?” Former Attorney General John Ashcroft, the recipient of a corporate monitoring contract, testified at the hearing. “I have called today’s hearing to shed light on the use of pre-trial prosecution agreements in corporate crime cases -- a growing practice that has so far been operating mostly in the shadows, without guidelines, and without oversight. Today’s hearing is not being held with prejudice for or against deferred prosecution and non-prosecution agreements, but rather, with concern about the number of unanswered questions surrounding them. “The concept of deferred prosecution originated as a rehabilitation option for non violent juvenile and drug offenders. After prosecutors file an indictment, the prosecution is put on hold in exchange for commitments by the offender to reform and provide restitution. If the offender meets the obligations in the agreement, prosecutors may ask a judge to dismiss the indictment. “In the past six years, the Justice Department has increasingly relied upon a similar tool for white collar crimes, usually involving private corporations. In such cases, an independent corporate monitor is often hired to determine whether the target corporation has complied with the obligations in the deferred prosecution or non-prosecution agreement. “Late last year, I was troubled to learn of what appeared to be a backroom, sweetheart deal where New Jersey U.S. Attorney Christopher Christie appointed John Ashcroft, the former Attorney General, to serve as an independent corporate monitor and collect fees between $28 and $52 million. I was also concerned to learn from press accounts that Mr. Ashcroft was selected with no public notice and no bidding and that he had to use considerable time to prepare for the assignment and learn more about the business that he was contracted to monitor. “When I continue to investigate the issue of deferred prosecution agreements and the appointment of independent corporate monitors, I discovered that the parties to these agreements were operating in a “Wild West” environment with no laws and no Justice Department guidelines. “Less than 24 hours before today’s hearing, the Department sent us a memo mapping out some guidance with regard to the selection and use of monitors. While this may be a good start, uncertainty still remains as to how monitors should be selected and how these agreements should be structured. “The absence of standards governing how independent corporate monitors are selected has resulted in a hodgepodge of approaches across jurisdictions. For example, in several agreements, prosecutors selected the monitor, typically after consulting with the corporation. In others, the corporation selected the candidate. Additionally, a few agreements provide for collaboration among the corporation, regulators, and prosecutors in the selection. Finally, in at least three agreements, a court played a significant role in the monitor selection process. “Furthermore, the current system lacks guidelines to direct how independent corporate monitors conduct oversight of the corporation once they have been selected. Most monitors are granted broad powers to gather information, institute policies, and oversee compliance. For example, in one matter, the monitor had the power to “require any personnel action, including termination,” regarding individuals “who were engaged in or were responsible for the illegal conduct described in the Information.” In essence, the agreement allowed the monitor to act as the prosecutor, judge, and jury for these employees. “While uncertainty is common in many aspects of deferred prosecution agreements, one thing remains certain: the government has tremendous leverage over a corporation entering into an agreement. Corporations facing criminal prosecution have an unfair choice. They can either risk a conviction and perhaps even dissolution after trial or be coerced into accepting the terms and the monitor that a prosecutor unilaterally believes are appropriate. “Unfortunately, because of a lack of transparency in many aspects of deferred prosecution agreements, we still don’t know the full scope of this issue. On January 10th, Chairman Conyers, Congressman Pascrell, and I sent a letter to the Justice Department requesting that the Department disclose all deferred prosecution agreements and the individuals selected as monitors. It has been two months since our request and we have yet to receive a response. “While we patiently await the Department’s disclosure of information, this hearing serves as a critical start to bringing deferred prosecution agreements and the appointment of monitors out from behind the shadows. Accordingly, I look forward to probing these issues further and considering whether legislation in this area is appropriate.”
03.09.2007	Washington - Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. and Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez expanded their investigation into the U.S. Attorney scandal by demanding additional information from the White House, including interviews with key officials including former White House Counsel Harriet Miers. Chairman Conyers and Chairwoman Sánchez sent letters today to the White House Counsel’s office, and to Ms. Miers’ office asking to interview Ms. Miers and Deputy Counsel William Kelly. The letters also ask the Bush Administration to produce relevant documents, including White House communications on the firings with the Justice Department and Members of Congress. “Until we get a clear and credible answer from the Bush Administration on who made the decision to fire these U.S. Attorneys, and why they did it, we will continue our investigation,” said Chairman Conyers. “We will keep working to make sure that those who would contaminate our justice system with partisan politics are held accountable.” “I am hopeful that the Bush Administration will work with us to get to the truth on this issue, especially after reading the Attorney General’s stated support for legislation that would take politics out of the U.S. Attorney selection process,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “The threshold for cooperation in Washington used to be Trust, but verify.’ We are sending these letters today because, at this point, we’d be happy just to verify.”
03.07.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, today issued the following response to an editorial written by U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales on the Bush Administration’s recent firing of at least 8 U.S. Attorneys. "After months of evasions and excuses on the question of whether eight former U.S. Attorneys were fired to achieve a political agenda, I was surprised to read this morning that Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has added to the growing list of excuses - that he fired the federal prosecutors because they had “lost [his] confidence. "Yesterday, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), which I chair, held a hearing on the issue, which yielded very interesting testimony. Former U.S. Attorneys Daniel Bogden from Nevada and Paul Charlton from Arizona testified that Acting Associate Attorney General William Mercer told them that the prosecutors were fired to help Republican loyalists “build their resumes. "Principal Assistant Deputy Attorney General William Moschella, testifying for the Justice Department, admitted that U.S. Attorney H.E. Cummins III of Arkansas was fired to give Timothy Griffin - a former aide to White House advisor Karl Rove - “a chance to serve his country.” Moschella also said that other U.S. Attorneys were fired to make room for “new blood." "These reasons, while interesting, do not fall in line with what the Bush Administration told us previously. Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty offered the now widely discredited line that the prosecutors were fired for performance-related reasons; this may be troubling for McNulty given that he was testifying to our colleagues in the Senate when he said it. "My personal favorite excuse - also from McNulty - is that some U.S. Attorneys were fired because of “extensive Congressional concern.” I can tell you that Democrats have been expressing extensive concern to the Justice Department for years on issues like the warrantless wiretap program and military tribunals, but we’ve had no such luck in spurring action. How can we get that phone number? "It is curious that Attorney General Gonzales has called the speculation as to the real reasons for the firing "wild and inaccurate." Anyone listening through the hearing yesterday may have concluded that various explanations offered by Mr. Gonzales's deputies were "wild and inaccurate." I wonder what excuses we will hear tomorrow. "House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers and I are determined to cut through the various excuses and get to the truth. We are following up on our requests to the Justice Department for information on numerous aspects of this issue, and we will almost certainly hold further proceedings as we consider H.R. 580, a bill by Rep. Howard Berman to restore checks and balances to the U.S. Attorney selection process."
03.06.2007	Washington - In testimony before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), six former United States Attorneys contradicted Bush Administration explanations for their terminations. Several testified about the partisan political pressures placed on them before their firings and stated that they were terminated to make way for Bush political loyalists. CAL Chairwoman Linda Sánchez subpoenaed the former federal prosecutors, most of whom had led investigations into cases of political corruption. The prosecutors cited positive job reviews and internal communications to dispel the Bush Administration's stated reasons for the terminations, and testified about an attempt by the Department of Justice to prevent them from publicly discussing their cases. "Our country decided after the Watergate scandal that ideological partisanship has no place in our system of justice," said Chairwoman Sánchez. "Unfortunately, the firings of these attorneys indicate that the Bush Administration has once again acted in the interest of its political party instead of the good of the nation." Former U.S. Attorneys David Bogden from Nevada and Paul Charlton from Arizona testified that Acting Associate Attorney General William Mercer told them that the prosecutors were not fired for job performance issues, as Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty had told the U.S. Senate in an earlier hearing. "Today's testimony signals that it is time to rein in this President and his Administration before they do any further damage to our democracy," said Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers. "Today, we received strong evidence that the firing of these U.S. Attorneys was politically motivated, and we clearly need to follow up on these developments with further investigations." David Iglesias, former U.S. Attorney from New Mexico, testified that U.S. Senator Pete Domenici and U.S. Representative Heather Wilson called him in the days before the close 2006 elections to discuss issuing an indictment against a local Democratic official. Mr. Iglesias said that after Senator Domenici abruptly hung up the phone, "I had a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach. Six weeks later I got the call that I had to move on." H.E. "Bud" Cummins III, a former U.S. Attorney from Arkansas, testified that Michael Elston, Chief of Staff to Deputy U.S. Attorney General Paul McNulty, called him with a warning that any of the fired prosecutors who publicly discussed their cases would be targeted by negative information campaigns. Mr. Cummins warned his colleagues that the Department of Justice would view their testimony as a "major escalation of the controversy," and that the fired prosecutors "might suffer some embarrassment from the disclosure of additional information" by the administration. "The Department of Justice, which had no effective oversight during the previous majority, has been acting behind closed doors to empower political cronies and intimidate its own appointees," said Chairwoman Sánchez. "This thuggish behavior is beneath our democracy and underscores the importance of Congressional oversight, a function that Chairman Conyers and I are committed to continue." "The testimony we heard today made a convincing case for passage of H.R. 580 to restore checks and balances in the appointment of U.S. attorneys," said Chairwoman Sánchez.
03.05.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), announced this morning that her subcommittee will seek to issue subpoenas to two additional former U.S. Attorneys who were fired by the Bush Administration. The CAL Subcommittee will meet on Tuesday, March 6 at 10:00 am in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building, to vote on issuing subpoenas to former U.S. Attorneys Daniel Bogden of Nevada and Paul K. Charlton of Arizona. The subpoenas would require them to testify before the subcommittee at its hearing scheduled for the same afternoon, joining four other former U.S. Attorneys who CAL subpoenaed last week. “We intend to issue these subpoenas because Mr. Bogden and Mr. Charlton can shed additional light on the Bush Administration’s apparent decision to pursue a political agenda through the selection of federal prosecutors,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “Even months after the firings, we still haven’t gotten straight answers from the Department of Justice, which changed its own story this weekend and admitted the firings weren’t based on job performance.” “We have received additional information that leads us to believe Mr. Bogden and Mr. Charlton are valuable additions to this panel of former U.S. Attorneys, and I look forward to hearing their testimony,” said Justice Committee Chairman John Conyers. The hearing, which is scheduled for Tuesday, March 6 at 2:00 pm, will consider a bill by Congressman Howard Berman that would reverse a new provision in the USA PATRIOT Act allowing the Attorney General to indefinitely appoint federal prosecutors through the end of the Bush Administration without Senate confirmation.
03.05.2007	Washington - House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers and Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law Chairwoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statements in response to the apparent resignation of Michael A. Battle as Director of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys: “Michael Battle’s resignation raises even more questions about the growing fallout from the firing of the U.S. Attorneys,” said Chairman Conyers. “Rest assured, we will do everything within our power to unearth the facts surrounding this matter, which calls into question the integrity of our system of law enforcement." “The wheels seem to be coming off the Bush Administration’s increasingly hollow defense of its decision to fire eight U.S. Attorneys,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “The Administration’s explanation of Mr. Battle’s apparent resignation is as murky as everything else they have told us about this case. I look forward to hearing the testimony of the fired federal prosecutors so we can get closer to the truth of what happened.”
03.01.2007	Washington - House Judiciary Committee John Conyers today issued subpoenas against certain former U.S. Attorneys who were recently fired by the Bush Administration. The subpoenas were authorized by the Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Law (CAL), chaired by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The subpoenas require former U.S. Attorneys David C. Iglesias, Carol Lam, H.E. Cummins, III, and John McKay to appear before a CAL Subcommittee hearing next week. "The former U.S. Attorneys are alleging very serious charges against the Administration and we need to hear from them," Chairman Conyers said. "We want to hear their stories and we want the Administration to address the charges head on so that we can get to the bottom of this." “We decided to issue subpoenas only as a last resort,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “We need to get to the bottom of whether competency in upholding the law is being sacrificed for political ideology.” Subcommittee members voted this afternoon in a public meeting. The subpoenas will be issue this evening for the U.S. Attorneys to appear before the subcommittee on Tuesday, at 2:00 pm in Room 2141 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing will consider a bill by Congressman Howard Berman that would reverse a new provision in the USA PATRIOT Act allowing the Attorney General to indefinitely appoint federal prosecutors through the end of the Bush Administration without Senate confirmation.
03.01.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the Employee Free Choice Act (HR 800) by a vote of 241-185. “I am proud that this Congress acted to help working families - who had been ignored in Washington for too long - by passing the Employee Free Choice Act,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor. “This act will protect the rights of workers to join with their colleagues in bargaining for better salaries and benefits. It’s about protecting the right to form unions, which have been critically important to helping working families reach the middle class.”
02.28.2007	Washington - Chairwoman Linda Sánchez today announced that the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL) will meet on Thursday, March 1, to vote on issuing subpoenas for certain former U.S. Attorneys who were recently fired by the Bush Administration. If approved by the subcommittee, the subpoenas which would be the first issued by the 110th Congress would require Carol Lam, David Iglesias, H.E. Cummins, III, and John McKay to appear before a CAL Subcommittee hearing next week. "In order to get the full picture of why these U.S. Attorneys were fired, we need to hear from the Justice Department and the U.S. Attorneys themselves,” said Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers. “We look forward to their testimony on this issue." “I called this meeting because we pledged to do everything we can to get to the truth of what could be brazen abuse of power by the Bush Administration,” said CAL Chairwoman Sánchez. The hearing, which is scheduled for Tuesday, March 6, will consider a bill by Congressman Howard Berman that would reverse a new provision in the USA PATRIOT Act allowing the Attorney General to indefinitely appoint federal prosecutors through the end of the Bush Administration without Senate confirmation.
02.20.2007	Long Beach - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez joined a distinguished group of local leaders and educators today at the culmination ceremony for the Gang Alternatives Program (GAP) at McKinley Elementary School in Long Beach. GAP is a non-profit organization that provides weekly, classroom lessons to elementary students on the dangers of, and alternatives to, gang involvement. “We’re here today to honor the work you have done to fight one of the biggest problems in our communities - gang violence,” said Congresswoman Sánchez to the graduating fourth-graders. “As graduates of the Gang Alternatives Program, you are living proof that good young people will choose to do the right thing and avoid gangs when you know the facts.” Congresswoman Sánchez secured $150,000 in 2005 to fund GAP programs at schools in Long Beach, Lynwood, South Gate, Watts and Willowbrook. This federal investment enabled GAP to reach 2,200 children in 8 schools over the last two years. McKinley Principal Thomas Espinoza also welcomed Long Beach City Council Members Val Lerch and Bonnie Lowenthal, as well as Irene Mendoza, President of the GAP Board of Directors, for the ceremony. "We're grateful for the additional resources that Congresswoman Sánchez has helped to secure for gang prevention education," said Long Beach Unified School District Superintendent of Schools Christopher J. Steinhauser in a statement. "It is vital that we steer our youngsters away from gangs, beginning at an early age." Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the House Committee on Education and Labor, also briefly talked about a comprehensive juvenile justice bill that she will introduce in Congress. The bill will complement conventional anti-gang enforcement programs by increasing federal support and local government authority to run gang-prevention initiatives. “My bill on juvenile justice will build on the success of programs like GAP, which we know can work,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We must confront violence at every stage, including before it happens.”
02.16.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today voted in favor of H.Con.Res 63, a resolution stating Congressional support for American troops serving abroad and opposing the recent plan by President George W. Bush to send more than 20,000 additional combat troops to Iraq. The resolution passed by a final vote of 246 - 182, with the support of 17 Republicans. Congresswoman Sánchez spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives last night in support of the resolution. The text of her speech is below. Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez Floor Remarks on H.Con.Res.63 February 15, 2007 Madam Speaker, I join my colleagues today to add my support for this resolution. The resolution is straight forward and simple: we support our troops and oppose President Bush’s plan to send more than 20,000 additional combat troops to Iraq. I support this resolution because we need a new direction in our Iraq policy. This war has been going on for almost my entire service in this House, and during that time I have heard one misrepresentation after another. This war began on a flawed premise - that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction and posed an imminent threat to the world. After months of fruitless searches, it became clear there were no weapons of mass destruction. But three years after coming to that conclusion, we’re still in Iraq. Then we captured Saddam Hussein. And more than three years later, we’re still in Iraq. We were told we needed to be there to fight the terrorists who attacked us. But we all knew that Al Qaeda was based in Afghanistan, not Iraq. Vice President Cheney said the insurgency was in its “last throes” and 20 months later, our troops are still in combat in Iraq. We were told we were in Iraq to establish democracy and freedom. Iraq now has a constitution and an elected government, but over a year later, we’re still in Iraq. It was three years, nine months and two weeks ago that President Bush declared “Mission Accomplished.” But our troops are still in Iraq. We in this House and the American public, have been continuously misled about this war. Enough is enough. If I really believed that sending another 20 thousand troops would end the war and bring stability to Iraq, I’d support it. It would be worth the sacrifice. But the war in Iraq can’t be solved militarily because it’s a political problem. So when the President wants to send even more troops, we really need to take stock of what that means for our country and the lasting impact it will have. We all know the statistics: 3,124 American troops killed, over 20 thousand wounded, and over 379 billion dollars spent. And I’ve seen the cost beyond the numbers - and I’m sure most of my colleagues have as well. Each visit I’ve made to Walter Reed, every wounded veteran I’ve met in my district, and each condolence letter I write to the widow or parent of a fallen soldier, painfully reminds me of the great sacrifice we are asking from our men and women in uniform and their families. There are also costs we don’t have numbers for, but they’re worth considering: How many children will grow up without a parent because of this war? How many veterans’ lives will be forever altered because of the injuries they’ve endured? How are we being perceived throughout the world and has it made us more vulnerable to terrorism? As we consider the President’s decision to send yet more troops, and to escalate the costs we’re bearing, we need to ask ourselves whether the cost of sending more troops to fulfill a flawed policy is justified. I don’t think it is. And most Americans don’t think it is either. As far as I’m concerned, this is a moral issue. We’re not doing right by our troops, and their families, to continue sending them into harm’s way without a winning strategy. And we’re not doing right for America. Our continued presence in Iraq is breeding new recruits for terror groups and eroding the readiness of our own armed forces. We are increasingly vulnerable to defending our interests in other parts of the world, such as Afghanistan, where just yesterday, the Washington Post reports that NATO lacks enough troops to fight the Taliban and Al-Qaeda. It’s time to change our tactics and bring an end to our current mission in Iraq. This resolution isn’t going to do that, but it is a first step in articulating to this President that staying the course isn’t working, and it isn’t acceptable to the American people. I urge all my colleagues to join me in voting yes on the resolution.
02.15.2007	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, U.S. Representatives Rahm Emanuel (D-IL), Howard Berman (D-CA), John Conyers, Chairman, Judiciary Committee (D-MI) and Linda Sánchez, Chairman, Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (D-CA) sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to request more details regarding the dismissal of U.S. Attorney Carol Lam. Text of the letter: The Honorable Alberto Gonzales U.S. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Gonzales: Last week, Congressman Emanuel sent you a letter requesting that former U.S. Attorney in San Diego Carol Lam be appointed as outside counsel to finish her work on the Duke Cunningham Case. Unfortunately, your office has not yet responded to that letter. Two days ago, Lam’s investigation continued to bear fruit as a federal grand jury charged Kyle “Dusty” Foggo and Brent Wilkes with at least 11 felony counts related to their involvement with Cunningham. As Elana Schor’s article in The Hill yesterday points out, “Justice Department officials have praised the Cunningham probe as the linchpin of their growing pursuit of public corruption cases, yet prosecutor Lam is nonetheless slated to step down[Thursday] after the Bush administration cited unspecified performance’ issues in requesting her resignation late last year. Six other U.S. attorneys, several involved in ongoing corruption investigations, were dismissed at about the same time.” As you know, of those seven fired U.S. Attorneys, Lam was not the only one investigating sitting public officials before being dismissed. For example, Daniel Bogden of Nevada and Paul Charlton of Arizona were dismissed while their offices were conducting probes concerning elected officials. Schor’s article also notes that Deputy U.S. Attorney General Paul McNulty was scheduled to brief members of the Senate Judiciary Committee yesterday with information on the decisions to dismiss the U.S. Attorneys. During last week’s public Senate hearing, Deputy U.S. Attorney General McNulty confirmed that Bud Cummins III, the former U.S. attorney for Eastern Arkansas, was dismissed without cause to install Timothy Griffin, a former aide to White House adviser Karl Rove. Carol Lam’s indictments of Foggo and Wilkes underscore the importance of last week’s request and the need for an explanation of why these diligent public servants were dismissed. It is vital that U.S. Attorneys be able to prosecute wrongdoing free from political pressure. We are pleased that the Department of Justice has also agreed to brief members of the House Judiciary Committee on the dismissals of Carol Lam and other U.S. Attorneys. We look forward to further details regarding the date for that briefing and your response regarding the request to appoint Carol Lam as an outside counsel to finish the Cunningham and related investigations. Thank you for your prompt attention to these matters. We look forward to hearing from your office. Sincerely, Rahm Emanuel Member of Congress Howard Berman Member of Congress John Conyers Chairman, Judiciary Committee Linda Sánchez Chairman, Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law
02.14.2007	WASHINGTON, DC -- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), issued the following opening statement today at the CAL Subcommittee legislative hearing on the State Video Tax Fairness Act of 2007. “In an era when genre-specific networks rule the airways and the public wants their entertainment “on demand,” cable and satellite services are more popular than ever. Nearly 100 million U.S. households receive their television programming either from cable or satellite providers. Consumers choose their television service provider based on a variety of factors, including the benefits offered, the availability in the particular location, and cost. No matter which other considerations are important, for most consumers, the total cost of a subscription will always be one of the deciding factors. “State and local taxes and fees are often overlooked by consumers trying to make smart choices. Because consumers don’t know how much those fees might be, or how those fees might change if the chosen service provider changes, few can make an informed decision between satellite and cable on the basis of price. Many simply are not aware that, depending on the state, a consumer may pay more depending on the chosen television service. Considering the current economic outlook, the differences in taxes could lead some consumers in a particular state to choose one television programming service provider over another to save money. Such decisions, taken together, could reduce competition for all consumers, and therefore lead to higher prices. “Today’s hearing will discuss whether there is discriminatory tax treatment by state governments in the video programming services industry. Additionally, we will examine what accounts for the differences in tax treatment between the two industries. Finally, we will examine H.R. 3679, the State Video Tax Fairness Act, and whether this approach ensures competition in the industry for the benefit of consumers.”
02.13.2007	Washington - In testimony today before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law, several experts on government regulation questioned the motives behind - and warned of the potential negative effects of - a recent Bush Administration decision that could weaken government protections against abusive corporate behavior. Subcommittee Chairwoman Linda Sánchez called the hearing to look at President George W. Bush’s Executive Order 13422, which changes a measure issued by President Bill Clinton in 1993 to balance economic growth and the need for regulatory protections, including workplace safety and pollution prevention. The Clinton measure, Executive Order 12866, allowed federal regulations to be developed by those specialists at federal agencies with substantive knowledge and experience. “The Bush Administration has a record of twisting facts and disregarding policy experts to make a case for its predetermined decisions,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “We need to make sure that the President’s new directive does not create a class of ideological enforcers who will weaken rules we need to keep families and the environment safe.” The Bush executive order could require that chief regulatory officer positions be filled by unconfirmed, unaccountable political appointees with the authority to alter federal rules. The new change would make it difficult to use generally accepted scientific data, as well as allow corporations to oversee their own behavior on issues like water and air pollution. Witnesses today included Peter Strauss, an administrative law professor at Columbia Law School, who warned that Bush executive order would reinstate a “discredited, remarkably expensive rulemaking procedure that delivers substantial controls over the timing and cost of rulemaking into the hands of private parties notably I fear those whose dangerous activities” would be subject to the proposed regulations. “There is no apparent need for [the Bush executive order],” said Sally Katzen, a proponent of centralized presidential review of rulemaking who helped develop regulatory policy for Presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bill Clinton. Katzen described the new order as an “explicit politicalization of the process.”
02.12.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today congratulated the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on nearly a century of work protecting and upholding the civil rights of all Americans. Founded on February 12, 1909 the NAACP’s legacy includes distinguished leaders and historic events. NAACP members have included civil rights giants such as co-founder Ida Wells, Rosa Parks and Medgar Evers. Thurgood Marshall served as special counsel for the NAACP when he argued the historic U.S. Supreme Court case of Brown V. Board of Education, a landmark victory for equality that outlawed segregation in schools. “The NAACP has carried the torch for civil rights in this country” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As we celebrate Black History Month, I am proud to honor them for that work.” Last month, Congresswoman Sánchez received a perfect score from the NAACP in its most recent Legislative Report Card. The group cited her leadership on issues including the renewal of the landmark Voting Rights Act, promotion of environmental justice, and her opposition to the Central American Free Trade Agreement. “As we see things like the difficult rebuilding of the Gulf Coast in the wake of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we are reminded that the work of the NAACP is still needed,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I will continue to work with the NAACP on the issues that affect us all.”
02.09.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, Chairwoman of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law (CAL), today announced her intention to begin hearings on the Bush Administration’s recent firing of seven U.S. Attorneys. The CAL Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes oversight of certain federal agencies, including the Office of the U.S. Attorneys. “I’m calling this hearing because we need to make sure that the selection of federal prosecutors is not being made for political reasons,” said Chairwoman Sánchez. “No presidential administration - now or in the future - should be allowed to dismantle the important constitutional set of checks and balances to achieve a political agenda.” The subcommittee will consider a bill introduced by Congressman Howard Berman that would reverse a new provision in the USA PATRIOT Act allowing the Attorney General to indefinitely appoint federal prosecutors through the end of the Bush Administration without Senate confirmation. The Berman bill would restore the previous process of selecting permanent and interim candidates to U.S. Attorney offices. Chairwoman Sánchez’ subcommittee will announce the specific scheduling and witness list for the hearing in the coming days.
02.01.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today encouraged people in Southern California to participate in “National Wear Red Day” on Friday, February 2nd. The nationwide campaign, which encourages men and women to wear red clothing, is designed to raise awareness of the importance of women’s cardiovascular health. “Heart disease is the number one killer of women, claiming nearly 500,000 American women every year,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The 'National Wear Red Day’ campaign is a wake-up call for everybody who knows, loves or happens to be a woman threatened by this terrible disease.” The campaign is specifically aimed at women between the ages of 40 - 60, the time when a woman’s risk of heart disease begins to rise. These women are encouraged to talk with their doctors to learn more about their personal risk for heart disease and to make cardiovascular health a priority. “It is important that women of all ages learn more about their heart health,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “It is never too early or too late to take steps to treat - and more importantly - prevent this killer before it ruins the quality of your life or worse.” The month of February was first designated as American Heart Month in 1963 to call attention to the risk of heart disease faced by Americans. Each year in the United States, over one million people fall victim to heart attacks, and nearly half of these sufferers die. Additionally, cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death for American women, claiming over 500,000 lives annually. Americans can greatly reduce their chances of developing heart disease through regular exercise, maintaining a healthy diet, and avoiding certain habits, such as smoking. More information and resources on cardiovascular health are available on her website at www.lindasanchez.house.gov.
01.25.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez this week rose to the position of Chair of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law for the 110th Congress. After already being the first Latina to serve on the House Judiciary Committee, this week she became the first woman to chair the Judiciary Subcommittee on Commercial and Administrative Law. This position had earlier been expected to be taken by more senior committee members. “Serving as Chairwoman on a Judiciary subcommittee is a great honor and responsibility,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. As Chairwoman, Sánchez will lead the subcommittee with jurisdiction on matters including bankruptcy and commercial law, interstate commerce and taxation, and some government contracting. The subcommittee also oversees government protections on the use of personal information. Congresswoman Sánchez will continue to serve on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, Citizenship, Border Security, and International Law. “Every week we see new headlines about lapses in personal data security or wasteful government contracts,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “My colleagues on the subcommittee and I understand that we have a lot of work to do to make our government more accountable and transparent.” Congresswoman Sánchez recently received subcommittee assignments for her other two committees. She will serve on the Education and Labor Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education, which will lead efforts this year to improve high quality public schools by revising the No Child Left Behind Act. She will also work on the nation’s retirement security crisis through her work on the Education and Labor Subcommittee on Health, Labor, Employment and Pensions Congresswoman Sánchez also began her first term on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. With a seat on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, she will focus on rebuilding international relationships in Central and South America, a region that has seen a recent surge in anti-U.S. sentiment. She also sits on the Subcommittee on Europe, which is focused on restoring strong strategic relationships with allies across Europe.
01.11.2007	Washington - Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi today appointed Congresswoman Linda Sánchez to the influential House Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will be responsible in the new Congress for providing real oversight and direction on American foreign policy. “Those of us in Southern California understand how our country’s relationships with other nations affect our security, economy, and even families,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “From advancing a new policy in the Middle East to rebuilding relations with Latin America, the people of our community now have a seat at the table.” In addition to providing rigorous oversight of current foreign policy, Chairman Tom Lantos (D-CA) has pledged to focus the committee on reversing the loss in recent years of international goodwill towards the United States. The committee, which was called the House International Relations Committee in the last Congress, will focus on building important international relationships through increased cooperation, as well as restoring the United States’ long-time position as a model for democracy and human rights. “For generations, people around the world equated our country with freedom, hope and opportunity,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We must have a smart foreign policy that strengthens alliances instead of creating new enemies. We have hard work ahead of us to restore their vision of America as the beacon of justice and democracy.” Congresswoman Sánchez will continue to serve on the House Judiciary Committee, on which she has served since coming to office in 2003. She was also recently appointed to the House Committee on Education and Labor, which will be responsible this year for improving high quality public schools by revising the No Child Left Behind Act and solving the nation’s retirement security crisis by protecting pensions for current and future retirees.
01.04.2007	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was sworn in to her third term on Thursday as Democrats began the 110th Congress with historic achievements. “I am honored and humbled to begin a new term representing the people of our district,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I understand the responsibility they have given me, and I promise my hard work and commitment to do the right thing for our communities.” Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from Northern California, became the first woman and the first Californian in U.S. history to ever be elected as Speaker of the House of Representatives, a position that puts her second in line for the presidency. Speaker Pelosi immediately led her colleagues on another historical accomplishment - passing the first part of a landmark ethics reform package designed to end the unfair influence of lobbyists in Washington. “In this House, we may belong to different parties, but we serve one country,” Speaker Pelosi said in addressing Congress. “In order to achieve a new America, we must return this House to the American people. So our first order of business is passing the toughest ethics reform in history.” Congresswoman Sánchez and her colleagues in the congressional delegation from California were invited to escort Mrs. Pelosi on her formal introduction as Speaker of the House. “This is a great day for California,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Speaker Pelosi will be a great leader for our nation and provide a stronger voice for our state, which has led economic, environmental, and technological innovation over the last few generations. “Now let’s get to work,” said Congresswoman Sánchez.
12.13.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi, who is expected to become the Speaker of the House of Representatives when the 110th Congress begins in January, today nominated Congresswoman Linda Sánchez to serve on an influential Congressional committee that directly affects individuals in the workforce, retirees and students. The Education and Workforce Committee has broad jurisdiction over education and labor issues. More specifically, the committee’s agenda in 2007 will include improving high quality public schools by revising the “No Child Left Behind Act”; passing the first increase to the national minimum wage in a decade; solving the nation’s retirement security crisis by protecting pensions for current and future retirees; and increasing student financial aid to increase access to college. “I am honored and humbled that Speaker-designate Pelosi would trust me with the role to work on some of our country’s highest priorities,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I have worked hard in Congress to make progress on issues including school safety and worker protections, and this new committee assignment will allow me to do even more.” Speaker-designate Pelosi included the nomination with a small list of new committee assignments that must be voted on by the entire Democratic caucus. “With the intellect and integrity of this diverse group of Members, House Democrats will lead our country in a New Direction that will turn the American Dream into reality for all, not just the privileged few,” said Speaker-Designate Pelosi in a statement. “They are ready to govern and address the real priorities of the American people.” Congresswoman Sánchez, with a seat on the committee of jurisdiction over worker protections, will also be able to increase her vocal leadership for promoting a fair trade policy. “Trade is important and necessary for U.S. workers,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “After a decade of catastrophic trade policy under the failed NAFTA model, we need to scrap NAFTA clones and create a trade policy that benefits working families here at home and across the world.”
12.09.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez participated today in a training workshop at the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) Organizing Summit. The two-day summit in Washington, which provided training to 700 labor leaders, is part of the AFL-CIO’s celebration of International Human Rights Day. Congresswoman Sánchez, a current member of International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 441 and a co-founder of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, was the only Member of Congress to address the summit in this morning’s panel on linking union organizing to political mobilization. “The labor movement demonstrated in our recent Congressional elections that they understand the beauty of democracy,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We know that people who unite behind a shared set of beliefs can improve their own lives by turning their individual votes into a powerful political force.” Congresswoman Sánchez has been a vocal champion for the labor movement and its advocacy for American working families and those across the world. Earlier this week, she joined AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and leading labor leaders from Iraq to honor the efforts, achievements and sacrifices of the growing labor movement in that country. “Iraqi leaders like Abdullah Muhsin and the late Hadi Saleh remind us that you can not separate economic justice for all workers from other fundamental human rights,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez recently returned from a trip to Colombia, where she spoke with local legislators and civil society leaders on the potential negative effects of the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) signed by the Bush Administration last month. The FTA must be approved by legislatures in both countries. “Trade is important and necessary for U.S. workers,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “After a decade of catastrophic trade policy under the failed NAFTA model, we need to scrap NAFTA clones and create a trade policy that benefits working families here at home and across the world.”
11.24.2006	Lakewood - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez will travel to Colombia next week to increase attention on the debate over the proposed U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA). She will use the trip to talk with members of Colombia’s legislature and civil society leaders about the FTA’s potential negative consequences. “The Colombian FTA is another bad trade deal for working families in the United States and in Colombia,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This deal is an extension of the bad NAFTA model that, over the last decade, has contributed to the decline in real wages for American families, the increase of our trade deficit, and the erosion of our manufacturing industry. “This deal would also gut Colombia’s legitimate agricultural industry, which will likely lead to higher production of drug crops by farmers who can’t compete with subsidized American produce," added Congresswoman Sánchez. According to a recent report by the American Center for International Labor Solidarity, a non-profit organization that advocates for workers’ rights abroad, Colombia is the “deadliest country in the world to be a trade union member.” The report says that more union activists are killed in Colombia each year than the rest of the world combined, with approximately 4,000 trade unionists killed over the last 20 years. “As bad as this deal is for the U.S., it could be even worse for Colombia,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Without the demonstrated commitment of the Colombian government to protect workers, any increase in manufacturing jobs will likely lead to abusive labor conditions and wages.” The trip is being arranged by Oxfam America, a non-profit organization that works to end global poverty. The U.S.-Colombia FTA was signed by the Bush Administration on Wednesday, and must be approved by the legislatures of both countries before being implemented.
11.17.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez today congratulated Professor David Paddy, who was honored for undergraduate teaching excellence at the U.S. Professors of the Year awards program. Dr. Paddy is an Associate Professor of English Language and Literature at Whittier College, where he has taught since 1997. Dr. Paddy is known by his students as an exciting, engaging teacher who challenges them to examine new perspectives when analyzing literature and the world around them. He teaches a range of English courses, often drawing subject matter from other disciplines into his lessons. “It is important that we recognize the work of educators like David, who use innovative techniques to reach and challenge students, expanding their awareness of their surroundings and their own potential,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Professors like David make education an active, dynamic process that goes beyond textbooks and lectures. His students understand that learning is a lifelong opportunity for growth.” “Whittier College is a place that really values teaching, so I’m surrounded by a multitude of excellent professors who are committed to the quality of their teaching,” said Dr. Paddy. “I feel humbled, honored and even a little embarrassed to be singled out among such stellar teachers.” The U.S. Professors of the Year program, sponsored by The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching and administered by the Council for Advancement and Support of Education, honors outstanding undergraduate instructors from all around the country. Awards are based on the following criteria: impact on and involvement with undergraduate students; scholarly approach to teaching and learning; contribution to undergraduate education in the institution, community and profession; and support from colleagues and current and former undergraduate students. Four national and forty-three state winners were chosen this year. “I am grateful that we have such talented and dedicated people teaching our students,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I’m working to increase working families’ access to college so that more of our kids have the opportunity to achieve their potential.”
11.01.2006	Lakewood - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez is pleased to announce that the City of Whittier will receive a $10,000 award from the National Endowment for the Arts to support the city’s 2007 Summer Concerts in the Park series. The funding will be used to present eight free musical concerts in uptown Central Park and in the east end’s Parnell Park during July and August. Concerts are held at Central Park on Mondays and on Thursdays at Parnell Park at 7:00 PM. “Whittier’s Concerts in the Park represent so many of the things that make our area great getting together to enjoy nice summer evenings, good music, and the company of each other,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This award is an investment in the community of Whittier.” "The City of Whittier is committed to providing the best possible leisure, recreational and cultural programs for our residents, and the Concerts in the Park program is our most popular summertime activity," said Whittier Mayor Cathy Warner. "The National Endowment grant will allow us to enhance the quality of our concert series for the increased enjoyment of our residents and visitors who look forward to this program every summer." Earlier this year, Congresswoman Sánchez announced she had secured initial support in Congress for $475,000 in federal funds for education related projects in Whittier and La Mirada. This includes funds for Whittier’s after-school and homework assistance program, and for a medical professions outreach program run by Cerritos College for the Norwalk-La Mirada Unified School District. A final decision on the federal funding is expected by this January.
10.26.2006	Los Angeles, CA - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was honored today for her environmental and water protection efforts with the “2006 H. David Nahai Water Quality Award” by the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board. The award recognizes extraordinary efforts to safeguard or restore water quality in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties. The Los Angeles Water Quality Control Board, which is part of the California Environmental Protection Agency, works to improve water quality in the Los Angeles region by managing watershed, stormwater and groundwater systems. Other 2006 Honorees include actress Daryl Hannah and State Senator Alan Lowenthal. “We need drinking water and environmental protections for families today and for future generations,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It doesn’t get any more basic than that.” Congresswoman Sánchez has a strong record of support for the environment. The League of Conservation Voters gave Congresswoman Sánchez a score of 100% for her support of environmental legislation during the second session of the 109th Congress. Congresswoman Sánchez has secured federal funds for innovative local stormwater reduction projects, including a bio-swale to be constructed along Whittier Blvd. in the City of Whittier and bio-retention tree wells to be constructed along Paramount Blvd. in Lakewood and Long Beach. She also secured a recent win for Southern California’s environment and water supply when the U.S. House of Representatives passed her bill, the “Southern California Water Augmentation Study Act” on September 28, 2006. The study will assess the potential of urban stormwater infiltration to augment water supplies and protect the ocean and beaches, and determine the benefits, costs and risks of infiltration. The bill is now awaiting action by the Senate. “I am proud of the work we have accomplished to protect our water supply, as well as our ocean and beaches. It is critical that we continue to seek new ways to protect this vital resource,” said Congresswoman Sánchez.
10.25.2006	Lakewood, CA - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez recently visited AltaMed as part of National Latino AIDS Awareness Day (NLAAD), a national campaign to increase awareness of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment within the Latino community. AltaMed organized the AIDS Awareness Walk Around the Block event in downtown Los Angeles on October 15, supporting efforts to promote HIV testing and education among Latinos and mobilizing Latino communities in the fight against AIDS. This year’s NLAAD theme was “Knowledge is Power. Get the Facts. Get Tested for HIV.” More than 350 institutions in 250 cities across the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands participated in NLAAD on the last day of Hispanic Heritage Month. “It is critical that we take a stand against the spread of HIV as Latinos continue to be disproportionately affected by this disease,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez was an original cosponsor of a Congressional resolution recognizing the observance of National Latino AIDS Awareness Day. She was also a cosponsor of the Responsible Education about Life Act, which would make grants available to states for family life education, including education on abstinence and contraception, to prevent teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. Latinos comprise nearly 20% of HIV/AIDS cases nationwide but only represent 14% of the national population. NLAAD promotes the critical role of HIV testing and prevention education in stemming the spread of AIDS. “National Latino AIDS Awareness Day is a day to enjoin Latinos, regardless of country of origin, in a national Latino movement to confront the stigmas associated with the disease and prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in our communities,” said Dennis de Leon, President of the Latino Commission of AIDS. “We must empower our communities by educating ourselves and promoting the importance of knowing your HIV status. Through extensive education, training, and testing sites in Latino communities across the country, Latinos are taking a stand against the spread of HIV, as well as celebrating our culture and the preservation of life and hope.”
10.02.2006	Washington, DC Congresswoman Linda Sánchez recently met with local “Celebration Ambassadors” as part of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network’s “Celebration on the Hill” event. The local delegation members, who are all cancer survivors or advocates and live in the 39th Congressional District, visited Washington to recognize Congresswoman Sánchez for her commitment to cancer research initiatives and to ask for her continued support. Eight constituents Linda Curtiss, Whittier; Anita Gaytan, Whittier; Diane Masseth-Jones, Lakewood; Maria Maynes, South Gate; Jack Miranda, La Mirada; Joann Sarachman, Whittier; Monica Walker, La Mirada; and Gloria Winfree, Los Angeles traveled to Washington with 4,000 other Celebration Ambassadors from across the country to participate in the event. They shared with Congresswoman Sánchez their personal stories of cancer survival and loss, as well as their hopes for legislation that will support the development of improved treatment and prevention options. “Cancer is a vicious disease that has darkened all of our lives,” said Congresswoman Sánchez, a member of the Congressional Cancer Caucus. “I am inspired by the courage and dedication of our Celebration Ambassadors to helping others beat cancer, both at home and here in Washington.” The Celebration Ambassadors requested that the congresswoman continue her support for the renewal of the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program Act, of which Congresswoman Sánchez is a co-sponsor. They also advocated for a boost in federal funding for cancer research and treatment programs. Illustrating the importance of cancer research, Ms. Walker said that her oncologist decided to change her treatment medications after reading the latest research in a medical journal report. The report discovered that the particular medications she had previously used, when taken in combination, actually limited their ability to treat the cancer. “Without that research, I’d still be using those treatments today,” said Ms. Walker, who was diagnosed with breast cancer two years ago at age 28. Linda Curtiss presented Congresswoman Sánchez with a memorial pen for making the Congressional Cancer Promise, pledging her support for the goal of eliminating suffering and death due to cancer by 2015. “She has been a real advocate for us, keeping the funding flowing,” said Ms. Curtiss. “Hopefully, by 2015, the pain and suffering of cancer victims won’t be much of a problem.” More than 10,000 cancer patients, survivors, families, and friends attended the Celebration on the Hill 2006. The event took place Sept. 19-20, 2006 on the National Mall in Washington, DC. Of the supporters, nearly 4,000 people were selected to serve as Celebration Ambassadors. OVERHEARD AT AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY CELEBRATION ON THE HILL ***Celebration Ambassadors local cancer survivors and Advocates comment on research advocacy mission to Washington DC. More than 10,000 cancer patients, survivors, families, and friends attended the Celebration on the Hill 2006. The event took place Sept. 19-20, 2006 on the National Mall in Washington, DC. Of the supporters, nearly 4,000 people were selected to serve as Celebration Ambassadors. Each of the Celebration Ambassadors has supported other cancer patients through the physical and emotional effects caused by the disease and its often painful treatments. Gloria Winfree, Los Angeles “I’m determined to be available to anyone with this terrible disease,” said Gloria Winfree (Los Angeles), who was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1980, four months after she lost her mother to colon cancer. “It doesn’t matter who you are. You can call me, and I will pray with you.” Joann Sarachman, Whittier “I was really moved by how many children with cancer I saw here,” said Joann Sarachman (Whittier). “It really put this problem into perspective. We need to find a way to prevent this disease from hurting kids.”“I’m determined to be available to anyone with this terrible disease,” said Gloria Winfree (Los Angeles), who was diagnosed with breast cancer in 1980, four months after she lost her mother to colon cancer. “It doesn’t matter who you are. You can call me, and I will pray with you.” Jack Miranda, La Mirada “I am a 12-year cancer survivor,” said Jack Miranda (La Mirada). “And I lost my son to a brain tumor 11 years ago. That was 4033 days ago. Losing my son made [my wife and me] passionate about finding a cure and embracing others that are suffering.”
09.28.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez secured a win for Southern California’s environment and water supply today, when the U.S. House of Representatives passed her bill, the “Southern California Water Augmentation Study Act” (H.R. 4545). The Water Augmentation Study, an innovative project by the Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council in conjunction with the United States Bureau of Reclamation, is developing systems to improve the local water supply and reduce ocean pollution. The Sánchez bill will enable the project to move from the study phase to begin the construction of a local pilot project in L.A. County. “This is a good day for Southern California,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This local pilot project will demonstrate that even small changes in the way we build our communities can reduce ocean pollution and improve the quality of drinking water. This is a smart step towards making our region more self-sufficient and less dependent on drinking water sources outside of the Los Angeles area.” For four years, Congresswoman Sánchez has organized the efforts among 10 local Members of Congress, with the particular help of Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, to address the regional needs of increasing our local water supply and reducing stormwater pollution. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $1.05 million in federal appropriations over the last three years to fund the Water Augmentation Study. This spring, she secured support for an additional $250,000 to complete the study phase of the project, which includes the pre-construction planning of the local pilot project. “We need drinking water and environmental protections for families today and for future generations,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “It doesn’t get any more basic than that. “I am proud that my bill earned broad support from both Democratic and Republican colleagues,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “This bi-partisan support shows that people here in Washington increasingly understand the need to make smart investments - now - to protect the environment and scarce water supply in Southern California and across the country.” The Sánchez bill will now be considered by the U.S. Senate, before it can be signed into law by President Bush.
09.26.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez today welcomed the inclusion of funding for the C-17 aircraft, which was included by Congressional appropriators in the Department of Defense funding legislation for the coming year. The House of Representatives is scheduled to vote today on the bill (H.R. 5361), which includes $4.4 billion for the production of the Boeing C-17 cargo plane, also known as the Globemaster III. “The C-17 is a crucial element of our country’s military preparedness,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am grateful that our defense funding bill reflects a commitment to building a strong military that can adequately respond to threats and crises around the world.” Congresswoman Sánchez also called on the Department of Defense (DOD) to reform the process used by the Department to measure its force structure capacity and needs. She cited the recent report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that found “questions about the adequacy” of the DOD review process, which was used to explain the DOD’s attempt to discontinue the C-17 program. “The Defense Department used a secretive and glaringly inadequate review process to justify its desire to shutter the C-17 program,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “It’s disappointing that Secretary Rumsfeld has a process in place that doesn’t recognize the needs of our armed forces.”
09.13.2006	Washington - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez recently received an A’ on Darfurscores.org, a congressional report card by the Genocide Intervention Network (GI-Net) on efforts to stop the genocide in Sudan’s Darfur region. GI-Net awarded the 'A’ grade based on Congresswoman Sánchez’ co-sponsorship of the Genocide Accountability Act, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, and House Resolution 723 (H. Res. 723), which calls for the United Nations (UN) and NATO to take action in protecting innocent civilians. “The millions of people suffering this atrocity are our brothers and our sisters. It is imperative that we stand up for what is right and do everything in our power to end the genocide,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Due in part to the pressure exerted by H. Res. 723, the UN Security Council recently approved the deployment of a peacekeeping mission for Sudan. Despite this diplomatic gain, the Sudanese government has escalated its systematic, three-year campaign of murder, rape and robbing of innocent civilians. A small and under-funded African Union peacekeeping force in Darfur is scheduled to depart at the end of this month. To date, as many as 400,000 civilians have been killed, and 2.5 million others have been forced to flee their homes. “Congresswoman Sánchez is a champion of the cause and has taken crucial action to end the genocide in Darfur,” said GI-Net Executive Director Mark Hanis. “However, we still have a lot more to do, and we need Congresswoman Sánchez to keep talking and writing about Darfur.” “In 2006, less than half of the House and Senate effectively stood up for Darfur,” Hanis commented. “To ensure protection for Dafurians in the future, an overwhelming majority of Congress must commit themselves to ending genocide and making 'never again’ not just a promise we make, but a commitment we keep.” “We all need to build on our efforts to help stop this genocide and bring peace and stability to millions of innocent families,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We have too much heart not to care, and too much power not to act.”
09.08.2006	Lakewood - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez issued the following statement on the 5th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States. “Five years ago, 3,000 people lost their lives in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. This tragic anniversary provides us an opportunity to reflect on those we lost and send our solace to their families, for whom this day remains especially painful. “To honor their legacy - the constant vigilance to keep our families and communities safe from terrorism - let’s commit ourselves to fully implementing the 9/11 Commission recommendations to better secure our homeland.”
08.21.2006	PARAMOUNT - On Monday, August 21st, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez welcomed seniors to her 2006 Senior Health and Information Fair at the Paramount Park Community Center. Approximately 500 seniors from across the 39th district attended the fair where they were given free health screenings, a variety of information from local senior organizations, and information on the controversial new Medicare prescription drug program. “I organize the annual Senior Health and Information Fair to make sure that seniors in our communities have access to information and services that can keep them safe and healthy,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. Forty local organizations were on hand to provide seniors with information on fraud prevention, affordable housing opportunities, public transportation, and financial planning. Congresswoman Sánchez also addressed those in attendance by giving an update on legislation in Congress that affects them directly and spoke with many seniors personally. Many local senior centers from Artesia, Hawaiian Gardens, Los Nietos, Lynwood, Paramount, and Whittier provided free transportation for seniors to attend the fair. Given the mounting problems with the controversial new Medicare prescription drug program, known as Medicare Part D, seniors were also able to troubleshoot their problems with experts from the Center for Health Care Rights. Approximately 7 million Americans will fall into the program’s “donut hole,” a gap in coverage for those seniors whose annual prescription drug bills are between $2,250 and $5,100, according to a recent report by the non-profit Campaign for America’s Future. A recent GAO study found that the call centers run by the Medicare Part D drug plans provide inaccurate and incomplete information most of the time. “This year, it is especially important to help seniors manage the serious problems with Medicare Part D, including coverage gaps and poor customer information service,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “Seniors should not have to worry about their prescription drugs due to a poorly designed program.” “I am thrilled with the success of this year’s Senior Fair,” concluded Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am especially thankful to the participating organizations for helping make this year’s fair possible. Many seniors who needed assistance with everything from Social Security to veterans’ benefits got the help they needed. I encourage any senior who needs further assistance to contact my office at 562-429-8499,” said Congresswoman Sánchez.
08.15.2006	LAKEWOOD - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez held a town hall meeting on Tuesday with residents of the 39th Congressional District on A New Direction for America - the Congressional Democratic agenda. More than 50 local residents joined Congresswoman Sánchez, Whittier Mayor Pro-Tem Owen Newcomer and Aileen Harper, Executive Director of the Center for Health Care Rights, at the Centre at Sycamore Plaza in Lakewood to discuss A New Direction for America, a comprehensive plan to provide all Americans with economic opportunity and real security at home and abroad. “This new Democratic agenda is about restoring priorities in Washington,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “For too long, President Bush and the rubber stamp Republicans in Congress have made one bad decision after the next. From the Iraq war to privatizing Social Security to ethics scandals, they have proven that they are hopelessly out of touch with the people in our communities.” The Democratic agenda includes six central elements: Real Security at Home and Overseas - Reclaim American leadership with tough, smart plans for Iraq, the Middle East, and around the World. Better American Jobs. Better Pay - No Congressional pay raise until the minimum wage is raised. End tax giveaways for companies that outsource American jobs. College Access for All - Make college tuition tax-deductible, permanently. Cut student loan interest rates. Expand Pell Grants. Energy Independence. Lower Gas Prices - New initiatives for cleaner, domestic energy sources. Affordable Health Care. Life Saving Science - Fix the Medicare prescription drug program and lower drug prices. Smart investments in breakthrough medical research. Retirement Security and Dignity - Stop plans to privatize Social Security substantially. Enact real pension reform. Expand personal savings incentives. “This town hall was a great demonstration that the people of Southern California aren’t happy with years of bad decisions and missed opportunities,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “They want a new direction.”
08.10.2006	LA MIRADA - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez talked with residents of La Mirada about the war in Iraq, the Medicare prescription drug program, and other important issues at her Community Office Hours event today at La Mirada’s Concert in the Park. Residents of the La Mirada area took advantage of having a one-on-one conversation with Congresswoman Sánchez to share their thoughts on the issues that affect their lives at home and across the world. “My ability to do my job in Washington depends on listening to the families in our communities here at home,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Community Office Hours are great opportunities for me to learn firsthand about the priorities of the families I represent.” Earlier this summer, Congresswoman Sánchez held Community Office Hours in Cerritos and Whittier. “Too many of my colleagues in Washington base their priorities on what they hear in the DC echo chamber,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “That’s why I appreciate the chance to get out in communities across the 39th Congressional District and listen to what is happening in the real world.”
07.27.2006	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez joined President George W. Bush and a bipartisan group of Congressional leaders at the White House today to mark the passage of an important civil rights law. President Bush invited Congresswoman Sánchez to the event in recognition of her role as a principal leader behind the legislation, which will renew voter protections for U.S. citizens under the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965. Congresswoman Sánchez is an original co-sponsor of the “Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006,” which President Bush signed today on the South Lawn of the White House. Earlier this month, Congress overwhelmingly passed the act by a vote of 390-33. The Senate later voted to pass the bill by a vote of 98-0. “This is a great day for everybody who values the most fundamental American right the right of U.S. citizens to vote,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, Congresswoman Sánchez helped lead the committee’s seven-month series of hearings and evaluation of evidence that led to the writing of the bill. “The Voting Rights Act has protected the ability of U.S. citizens to cast safe and informed ballots since its creation in 1965,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “Today, our country sent a strong message that we will remain a model for democracies everywhere by protecting the right of every citizen to vote.”
06.07.2006	Washington-In an effort to improve transportation safety and access in the Southland, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) announced today that she secured support for $850,000 for transportation related projects in the cities of Artesia, Cerritos and Lakewood. Congresswoman Sánchez got the funds included in the Transportation Appropriations bill, which passed the Appropriations Committee by a voice vote. The bill must now be passed by the full House of Representatives and signed by the President to become law. “I am very pleased to have acquired these funds to answer transportation needs in Artesia, Cerritos and Lakewood,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These investments will improve our public transportation system, upgrade our transportation infrastructure and spur economic development,” concluded Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $300,000 for the city of Artesia for two projects. The first project is a $200,000 investment to purchase new large-capacity, clean-air buses for the circulator system. Congresswoman Sánchez also got $100,000 for the construction of a parking structure in Artesia’s main business district. Congresswoman Sánchez secured $300,000 for the city of Cerritos to improve the city’s bus system. The funds will be used to purchase new clean-air buses for Cerritos on Wheels and replace smaller, older diesel buses. The new large-capacity buses run on natural gas, and will improve public transportation options while helping the environment. Congresswoman Sánchez also secured $250,000 for the city of Lakewood to improve traffic intersections. The funds will upgrade deteriorating traffic signals, and install poles and mast arms at busy intersections. These upgrades will improve safety and traffic flow. “Congresswoman Sánchez has come through again for the people of Lakewood,” said Lakewood Mayor Larry Van Nostran. “These improvements will help make sure that we can get to home and work more safely and quickly. I am ecstatic and delighted that we have someone in Washington like Congresswoman Sánchez that is working so hard for communities like ours.” “These investments in Artesia, Cerritos and Lakewood will help reduce traffic, improve roadway safety and create economic opportunity throughout the Southland,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. In her first four years in office, Congresswoman Sánchez has secured federal funds for several transportation projects in local cities, including $1.4 million for the purchase of clean-air buses in Cerritos, $1.3 million for road improvements in Artesia, $320,000 for road improvements in Hawaiian Gardens, and $480,000 for road improvements in Long Beach.
05.06.2006	SOUTH GATE - To recognize and encourage the artistic abilities and creative talent of high school students in the 39th Congressional District, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez hosted the Fourth Annual 39th Congressional District Arts Competition Reception and Award Ceremony on Saturday, May 6th at the South Gate Auditorium in South Gate. This year, Congresswoman Sánchez received a large number of submissions from throughout her district, which includes Lakewood, Cerritos, Whittier, Lynwood, Hawaiian Gardens, Artesia, La Mirada, Long Beach and South Gate. All of the submissions were displayed at the reception for public view in recognition of the student's talent and hard work. "Every year I am simply amazed with the level of talent and dedication that our students put in their artwork," said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. "Talent like this deserves to be nurtured, and I look forward to proudly displaying more great work from local students in the Capitol Building and in my offices." The event concluded with the recognition of the top five winners including the First Place winner, Sam Fernandez. Sam, a Junior at Mayfair High School in Lakewood, won with his submission titled "Que Paso?" Sam was invited to attend the National Congressional Arts Competition Reception in Washington, DC, this summer where his piece will be dedicated and displayed in the Capitol Building. A panel of local art experts selected the winning pieces. The remaining winners will have their works displayed in the Congressional Offices of Congresswoman Sánchez. They are as follows: Second Place: Giovanni Vizcarra, Senior, Lynwood High School, Untitled Third Place: Soojin Hong, Senior, Warren High School, "Vase of Flowers" Fourth Place: David Scott Korson, Junior, Mayfair High School, Untitled Fifth Place: Argyl Robertson, Senior, Gahr High School, "The Face Within" Cerritos resident Jaymee Ngernwichit, a Senior at Whitney High School was last years first place winner. "When I won it was really good to know I could do something great; I never entered my work into anything before so it built a lot of self-confidence for me," said Jaymee. "The trip to the Capitol was mind-blowing. It helped me become more social and opened my mind to more of the world. It was also just a lot of fun." art_comp_winner.jpg
03.22.2006	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) recently received a perfect score of 100% on her votes pertaining to civil rights and liberties from the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights (LCCR). The votes reviewed by the LCCR cover a broad range of issues pertaining to civil rights and liberties, and their impact on the national budget, education, hate crimes and immigration. "It is a great honor to receive a perfect score from such a prestigious and well respected civil rights organization," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "I work hard in Congress to uphold the everyday civil rights and liberties of all Americans." The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights is currently made up of nearly 200 organizations representing persons of color, women, children, labor unions, individuals with disabilities, older Americans, major religious groups, gays and lesbians, and civil liberties and human rights groups. Based on Members’ votes, each Representative and Senator earns a percentage rating for support of LCCR civil rights and priorities.
03.21.2006	WHITTIER- On Tuesday, Dr. Mark McClellan, Federal Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) attended a special informational session and assistance clinic, organized by Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-Lakewood) entitled "Coping with Medicare Part D." The clinic was a forum for seniors to get information from various agencies on how to pick the best plan and acquire the best coverage plan. Around 70 seniors attended the event. "I did not support the new Prescription Drug Benefit," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "But now that it is law, we need to help seniors figure out how to use the program. I am happy that we were able to do that today with the assistance of Dr. McClellan and his staff." The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Center for Healthcare Rights, and My Medicare Matters were also on site to provide answers to seniors and help them sign up for plans at no cost. The official Medicare bus, with experts and live computers, was also on hand to help seniors sign up for their plan on site. "The turnout at today’s event exemplifies the confusion that many have had with the new system. Because of this I think we need to extend the sign up deadline and change the plan so that it helps to reduce drug costs, offers clear choices, and works for the people that really depend on Medicare," added Congresswoman Sánchez. For more information on signing up for Medicare plans, please call Congresswoman Sánchez’ district office at 562-429-8499 or the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid at 1-800-MEDICARE (633-4227). "At today’s event seniors got some of the answers they needed to get themselves on the road to picking their best plan by the May 15th deadline. After years of hard work, they deserve no less," concluded Sánchez. sanchez_medicare.jpg
03.21.2006	LAKEWOOD- Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-Lakewood) issued the following statement today after learning of the death of former California State Assemblyman Marco Antonio Firebaugh: "I am deeply saddened to hear the news of Marco Firebaugh’s premature death. Marco was a distinguished and respected leader in the Latino community whose charm and charisma were contagious. He never forgot where he came from and fought tirelessly day in and day out for a better California. My thoughts and prayers are with his family in this difficult time. He will be greatly missed."
03.16.2006	WASHINGTON- Congresswomen Linda T. Sánchez (D-Lakewood) is pleased to have assisted in securing $100 million for the C-17 program. Working with other members of Congress from the Los Angeles area, the funds were secured in the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery (H.R. 4939) which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 348-71. The funds signify the Defense Department's growing commitment to continue construction of the C-17 aircraft through Fiscal Year 2008. "We are very excited to hear that we were able to secure $100 million for C-17 construction," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "The C-17 plays a very important role in our national security strategy and humanitarian relief efforts and is the only plane of its type that can bring heavy equipment to the battle front or disaster areas. We need these planes-there is no question. This funding is a first step in keeping C-17 production in Long Beach," added Sánchez. In addition to funding the C-17’s, this bill also provides funding for electronic countermeasures for the aircraft which aids in protecting it from enemy surveillance. Currently, the C-17 is being flown 160 percent more than usual, to deliver supplies for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and humanitarian missions. Boeing is the primary manufacturer of C-17 aircraft and is its production facility is located in Long Beach, California. Approximately 7,000 people work at the Long Beach assembly plant.
03.07.2006	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez made the following remarks at the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on the Constitution Oversight Hearing entitled "The Voting Rights Act: Evidence of Continued Need." Sánchez spoke about the recent reports released by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights on the importance of not only renewing but strengthening Sections 5 &amp; 203 of the Voting Rights Act. "Thank you, Chairman Chabot and Ranking Member Nadler, for convening this vital hearing on the "Evidence of Continued Need of the Voting Rights Act." I also want to thank the witnesses and their respective organizations for their extensive reports on the importance of reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act and the need for preserving its safeguards. "A recent Roll Call article quoted Chairman Sensenbrenner during the 1982 VRA reauthorization hearings, as saying, "The testimony amply demonstrated that the ingenuity of the human mind is limitless when it comes to devising ways to rig election systems to favor certain candidates or points of view." "The Chairman's comments would be equally appropriate today. The NEED to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act - especially the language assistance provisions in Section 203 and the pre-clearance provisions in Section 5 - is as great today as it was when Chairman Sensenbrenner made his remarks in 1982. "The testimony we heard during the VRA hearings last fall and the conclusions found by the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law and the American Civil Liberties Union's reports provide undeniable evidence that the Voting Rights Act is still required to prevent voter suppression and ensure everyone has an equal opportunity to cast their vote. "As a Member of Congress representing a Congressional district with a substantial Latino and Asian population, I have first hand knowledge of the power of the Voting Rights Act. My district has been covered by Section 203 since 2000. I can tell you, the Lawyers' Committee and ACLU reports confirm what I've seen in my precincts for years. The language-assistance provisions are still needed to protect many citizens' voting rights. "The Lawyers' Committee and ACLU reports also confirm that Latino voters continue to suffer from discriminatory voting obstacles. As recently as last June, the Department of Justice sued the city of Boston for discouraging Hispanics from voting. "Additionally, there are confirmed cases nationwide of election officials, in jurisdictions covered by Section 203, simply ignoring their legal requirement to provide language assistance. This is not only wrong it is against the law. "I strongly believe the testimony and reports submitted in favor of reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act are compelling. They prove beyond a doubt that the VRA not only needs to be reauthorized but strengthened. "I appreciate Chairman Chabot and Ranking Member Nadlers courtesy of allowing me to join the Constitution Subcommittee again today."
03.07.2006	Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) announced her support for Democratic legislation that would increase the minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years. Sánchez signed a discharge petition that would bring this proposal (H.R. 2429) to the floor for a fair up-or-down vote, once a majority of the U.S. House of Representatives signs it. In 2004, as a member of the Government Reform Committee and co-founder of the Congressional Labor and Working Families Caucus, Sánchez led an effort to commission a study to examine the real value of the minimum wage. The study found that there has been a massive 40 percent decline in the minimum wage since 1968 and overall it has declined by 15 percent since its last increase in 1997. Currently, the minimum wage is approaching an all-time 56-year low. "Working families here in California desperately need a raise. With dramatic increases in the cost of living, especially health care, gas and housing, workers are forced to pay much more with less," said Sánchez. "A boost in the minimum wage will help over 441,000 workers in our state." The Miller-Owens bill (H.R. 2429) will raise the minimum wage, which has remained at $5.15 an hour for the past 7 years. Specifically, the bill would gradually increase the minimum wage by $2.10 -- from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. The bill raises the minimum wage to $5.85 60 days after enactment; to $6.55 one year later; and to $7.25 one year after that. More than 7 million workers nationally would see their paycheck grow thanks to a minimum wage increase. "American families are having trouble making ends meet - in part because the minimum wage is at its lowest value in 17 years and Republicans have refused to increase it since 1997. People who work hard and play by the rules ought to be able to pay their bills and feed their children. This is an issue of basic fairness, of economic morality," Sánchez continued. "While corporate profits are up, the wages of America's families are down. Together America can do better than an economy that favors the powerful and well-connected at the expense of American workers and their families," concluded Sánchez.
03.02.2006	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In an effort to help the fight against illegal drugs, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez successfully amended the bipartisan Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act today to allow for funding drug prevention programs. The amendment, which was passed by a voice vote in the House Judiciary Committee, allows up to 5% of High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) funds to be used for drug prevention programs. "I offered this amendment because we need a comprehensive and flexible approach to fighting drugs," said Congresswoman Sanchez. "There is a consensus among law enforcement agencies that prevention programs are a necessary part of a successful strategy to fight drugs and crime. A representative from the National Narcotics Officers" Associations’ Coalition visited my office recently to make exactly that point." "The manufacturing, trafficking, and use of illegal narcotics, including methamphetamine, has reached epidemic proportions in Southern California and nationwide," continued Sánchez. "We need to arm our dedicated law enforcement agents with every available weapon to fight the war on drugs. That includes prevention programs so that we can stop drug abuse before it starts," concluded Sánchez.
02.28.2006	WASHINTON - Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez welcomed the news that Mexican authorities arrested the alleged killer of Los Angeles Deputy Sheriff David March on February 23. Deputy Sheriff March was murdered during a routine traffic stop in 2002. His presumed killer, Armando Garcia, fled to Mexico to escape prosecution. "This is just the first step in bringing Deputy March's killer back to the United States to face justice for his vicious crime," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "Individuals who commit crimes in the United States and then flee the country to avoid persecution and punishment must be extradited back to the United States to pay for their crime. I have pushed hard for Mexico to extradite Mexican nationals by writing to the Mexican President Vicente Fox, cosponsoring legislation to encourage an extradition law, as well as calling on President Bush to renegotiate the U.S.-Mexican Extradition Treaty. " "I am pleased that in November of last year, the Mexican Supreme Court reversed Mexican policy that previously protected violent criminals like Garcia, by agreeing to extradite suspected criminals facing a life sentence," continued Sánchez. "That Supreme Court reversal, coupled with Garcia's capture, is a significant step forward in U.S.-Mexican relations." "Garcia now awaits extradition to the U.S. which has helped to bring some relief to the March Family. There are many other families across the country like those of Deputy Sheriff March who have suffered similar tragedies. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with those families, and I will wait in anticipation that Garcia will be returned to the U.S. to face his long-awaited and well deserved punishment," concluded Sánchez.
02.22.2006	CERRITOS - Dozens of present and future entrepreneurs filled the Cerritos Park East community room on Wednesday for a Forum organized by Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The forum was a unique opportunity for different business owners from the region to network and learn from a panel of experts about how to access more capital, legal issues small businesses need to consider as they grow, and free services and government problem-solving that Congresswoman Sánchez can provide. "I am pleased to have been able to provide the community with this educational forum," said Sánchez. "Small businesses are the backbone of this country, and I am working hard in Congress to provide both informational sessions like these as well as financial support at the federal level." Many local residents were in attendance along with representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration, Small Business Development Centers, and other business related-agencies. Alberto Alvarado, District Director of LA Small Business Administration Office, and Sheneui Sloan, Director of Economic Development for Small Business Development Centers participated in providing valuable information for those at the forum. "It was good to be able to hear from residents about their concerns for their businesses," continued Sánchez. "I hope that this forum was beneficial to current and future small business owners. It is extremely important that we foster small businesses, as they provide for 75 percent of new jobs in America." Congresswoman Sánchez serves on the Small Business Committee in the House of Representatives where she has worked hard to oppose cuts to the Small Business Administration in the most recent budget, citing the importance small businesses play in our communities.
02.21.2006	LYNWOOD - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez presented a check on Tuesday for $2.56 million in federal funding to the city at Lynwood City Hall. The funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez will finance after-school programs at six sites in Lynwood, including Will Rogers, Washington, Wilson, and Lindbergh Elementary Schools; Resurrection of Life Church and Lynwood Youth Center. The after-school services include computer classes, supervised homework study sessions and recreation. Sánchez also secured funding to expand a successful anti-gang youth program to more schools in Lynwood. The award-winning Gang Alternatives Program (GAP) educates youth at the 4th grade level on the dangers of gang involvement and steers them toward positive alternatives. "I am very pleased to have been able to secure funding for these great after-school programs that will support local youth in the Lynwood area, especially considering how difficult it is to find funding for youth and anti-crime programs in the federal budget these days," said Congresswoman Sánchez. Also included in the federal dollars are funds that will pay for major improvements to Long Beach Blvd. to help ease traffic congestion and reduce storm water runoff. Lynwood public works officials are currently working on a schedule for the improvements. "After speaking with residents and city leaders from Lynwood, it was evident their priorities were youth programs, anti-gang programs, and transportation projects," continued Sánchez. "I listened to their requests, and the federal funding I secured for the city will hopefully address those priorities and improve the local quality of life."
02.07.2006	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement after President Bush released his budget proposal for 2007 on Monday. “The budget President Bush released yesterday reflects misplaced priorities that aren’t in sync with everyday Americans. This budget imposes harmful cuts to important services and programs for average Americans, while protecting giveaways for special interests and tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Seniors, children and working families are the ones that will bear the heaviest burden from this budget. Last week, the GOP budget reconciliation bill cost California $3.1 billion. Yesterday’s release of the President’s budget carries more bad news for Californians. The bottom line is, the President’s budget is just more of the same--fiscal recklessness that leaves our children and grandchildren with debt for many years to come. Democrats will fight against these cuts and fight for a budget that restores fiscal responsibility and brings real prosperity to hard working Americans--economic prosperity, affordable healthcare and energy, and strong public schools. The President has announced that he will cut or eliminate many programs that are critical to Californians: Medicare In California, we have seen first hand how millions are struggling with the complexity of the Medicare prescription drug program. Now is not the time to cut Medicare by $36 million. Instead of cutting Medicare, the President should direct some money to immediately repay states, pharmacies and Medicare beneficiaries, in full, for costs they have absorbed as a result of the problem-ridden implementation of the prescription drug program. Education In the President’s State of the Union speech, he talked about the importance of education to keep America competitive and innovative, yet his budget reflects none of that. The budget under funds the department of Education by 3.8% and eliminates 42 education programs. Programs that are critical to California such as Vocation Education Programs, college readiness programs for low-income youth (GEAR-UP and TRIO), and Even Start literacy programs are among those that were cut. The President touts the No Child Left Behind Program, yet again, the President’s budget will leave behind 3.7 million students, including over 500,000 Californians, because he chooses to not fully fund the programs that provide federal assistance to school districts with high concentrations of low-income students. Most surprisingly, Bush has backed away from last year’s promise to increase the maximum Pell Grant amount, which provides funding for low-income students to meet the skyrocketing costs of higher education. It is truly reprehensible that President Bush once again wants to cut education funding. State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) The President again proposes to eliminate the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP). This has happened the last two years and each time Congress has recognized the importance of the program and saved it. Without such funding, states will not be reimbursed for their share of incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens. This would especially hurt California as we receive nearly 40 percent of all federal SCAAP funding. I have heard time and again from local law enforcement agencies, that this funding is critical and I will fight this year to ensure that SCAAP funding is restored. In addition, the President wants to cut funds to the highly-successful Community Oriented Policing Programs, and Violence Against Women Programs. President Bush has again broken his promises. It is unconscionable, but while President Bush is cutting programs that are critical to America’s working families, he will squander the savings from these cuts on $1.5 trillion in permanent tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans and increase the national debt to $423 billion.”
02.07.2006	WASHINGTON DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) released the following statement today in recognition of Black History Month which is observed throughout the month of February. "The recent passing of Coretta Scott King serves as a strong reminder that the struggle for equality throughout the world is still very much alive. As we celebrate Black History Month, Coretta Scott King and others like Rosa Parks will be on our minds and in our hearts. "Their struggle, however, must be remembered for more than just one month out of the year - and a great way to honor their contributions to equality and liberty is to renew the Voting Rights Act this year. I join the Congressional Black Caucus, as well as all Americans, in celebrating Black History Month and maintaining my commitment to equality and justice for all Americans. "Voting is the one way that all Americans can directly participate in our democracy. I cannot think of any greater acknowledgement of Black History Month and the legacies of Rosa Parks and Coretta Scott King, than renewing this act intended to preserve equal participation for all Americans." A member of the House Judiciary Committee and Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Civil Rights Task Force, Congresswoman Sánchez has been a vocal advocate for strengthening the Voting Rights Act (VRA). She has worked closely with Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Black Caucus and Asian Pacific American Caucus to ensure the VRA is not only reauthorized but strengthened.
02.01.2006	WASHINGTON D.C. - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined more than 160 of her fellow Democratic colleagues in cosponsoring the "Honest Leadership, Open Government" Act, an aggressive reform package to attempt to reverse Republican corruption and protect the public trust. The bill was introduced today. "The cost of corruption in Republican-run Washington is felt by families in Southern California and across America in the form of higher gas prices and higher prescription drug costs," said Congresswoman Sánchez. "While Republicans reward the wealthy and special interest groups, the priorities of the American people remain forgotten. That is why Democrats are offering real reforms to clean up Washington." The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act was co-sponsored today by Congresswoman Sánchez addresses four main areas: " Bans travel and gifts from lobbyists, and those who employ them, and requires lobbyists to disclose campaign contributions, so that the Jack Abramoffs of the world cannot buy influence in Congress; " Reduces the unprecedented political access Republicans have given to corporations and lobbying firms by ending the K Street project and prohibits Members from giving legislative favors to lobbying firms in exchange for hiring Members of their same party; " Ends the "dead of night" special interest provisions and requires disclosure of earmarks, so that the public to see exactly what their elected representatives are doing in Washington; and " Stops the revolving door between government and lobbyists by extending the lobbying ban to two years. "This reform package, that I and 160 of my fellow Democrats support will clean up the Republicans corrupt pay-to-play system and give Americans the open government they deserve," concluded Sánchez.
01.31.2006	“President Bush continues to mislead the American people on the real state of our union. The state of the union that he talked about tonight is a very different one than the state of the union for working class America and the people in my Congressional district. What President Bush forgot to mention is that our nation is suffering historically low job growth coupled with declining wages and rising poverty, all on top of a rapidly increasing national deficit. The truth is that President Bush and the Republican Congress have failed to address the real concerns of the American people. The President and this irresponsible Republican-led Congress have failed America at every turn when it comes to energy prices, job growth, economic security, health care, homeland security and honest leadership. They have chosen to put special interests ahead of the American people’s interests and middle class America is paying the price. If President Bush really believes in moving away from our dependence on oil, then why did he push Congress to pass an energy bill last year filled with rewards for the gas and oil companies? If President Bush really believes in investing in our nation’s youth, then why does he continue to under-fund the No Child Left Behind Act? President Bush talks about making tax cuts permanent to help American families, but the record of his Administration and the Republican Congress is to pass tax cuts favoring the wealthiest Americans, rather than provide tax relief for working families. He talks about reforming our immigration system, but he has been saying that for four years, and has not backed up his words with any real action. Our country needs comprehensive immigration reformborder security PLUS interior enforcement and a path to legalization. President Bush’s party controls the House, Senate and the White House. If he really wanted to enact comprehensive immigration reform, he could, but he chooses not to. Working families in our country need more than just words and sound bites. Working families need real action and solutions that will lower gas prices, strengthen our economy and increase access to quality health care. Americans deserve a government that is honest and open where we can build a future that will benefit everyone.”
01.31.2006	"I would like to express my deepest regrets for the passing of Coretta Scott King. Along with her husband Martin Luther King, Jr., she was a pillar in the civil rights movement and until her last months fought for racial, economic, and social justice for all. She was woman of great strength and changed the course of history in our nation. She will continue to be an inspiration for generations to come. I, along with many other members of Congress are sponsoring a Congressional Resolution honoring her life and accomplishments as a leader in the struggle for civil rights and expresses condolences to the King family as they mourn her passing."
01.26.2006	LAKEWOOD - Working to improve commuting and safety in local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) presented a check for $1.48 million to Mayor Joseph Esquivel and other Lakewood officials on Wednesday to be used in partnership with local funds to help refurbish Paramount Boulevard and help with Lakewood’s effort to repair and upgrade its bus shelters and bus stops around the city. “Last year, when a major transportation bill was going through Congress, I asked Lakewood city leaders how I could be helpful on city transportation issues. Repairing Paramount Boulevard and improving the city’s bus stops were at the top of their list,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “For every dollar paid in federal taxes, the state of California receives only 76 cents back. I am very pleased I was able to secure a fair share of those taxes for transportation improvements in Lakewood.” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez also met with Mayor Joseph Esquivel and other city officials to discuss important issues facing the city. Each year, Congresswoman Sánchez meets with mayors and other city officials from every city in the 39th District to identify ways the federal government can assist them. “I rely on the meetings with local leaders to determine the needs and priorities of each community, and discuss ways in which I can work to bring more federal dollars back to the 39th District,” added Sánchez. "Congresswoman Sánchez has come through again for Lakewood,” said Lakewood Mayor Joseph Esquivel. “We'll use this new federal funding to expand a program of bus stop improvements the city has already begun,” concluded Esquivel.
01.26.2006	WHITTIER - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez, (CA-39) joined by students and teachers from Katherine Edwards Middle School, presented a check for $150,000 to the Boys &amp; Girls Club of Whittier on Thursday. The funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez are part of a three-year federal grant through the Department of Education to fund a Boys &amp; Girls facility at Katherine Edwards Middle School. “This funding is exactly why I fight so hard to get federal dollars back to the 39th District,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Boys &amp; Girls Club has helped so many young people in its history, and I am very pleased I could help in continuing their mission of keeping kids away from drugs and alcohol, fostering healthy lifestyles and ensuring academic excellence.” The funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez will be paid over three years, and will help keep the critical after-school program alive. The Boys &amp; Girls Club of Whittier opened the extension club in September 2003 to accommodate extra students in the area where no other after-school programs exist. “The mission of the Boys &amp; Girls Club is to inspire and enable all young people, especially those from disadvantaged circumstances, so they can realize their full potential as productive, responsible and caring citizens,” said Executive Director Samantha Ridout. “Thanks to Congresswoman Sánchez hundreds of Whittier-area students will have a Boys &amp; Girls Club to come to.” Daily attendance is nearly 110 students from sixth to eighth grade. The Club offers the students the opportunity to participate in after-school sports, social recreation and homework assistance. Annual membership fees are $15 which entitles kids to participate at both Katherine Edwards Middle School and the main Clubhouse on Greenleaf Avenue.
01.25.2006	ARTESIA - Working hard to improve our local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) met with Mayor Larry R. Nelson and City Manager Maria Dadian at Artesia City Hall on Tuesday to discuss issues facing the city. Each year, Congresswoman Sánchez meets with mayors and other city officials from every city in the 39th District to identify ways the federal government can assist them. “For every dollar paid in federal taxes, the state of California receives only 76 cents back,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These meetings are critical to determine the needs and priorities of the community, and discuss ways in which I can work to bring more federal dollars back to the 39th District so that we get our fair share.” Specifically, Sánchez and city officials discussed many issues including federal funding secured by the Congresswoman for a regional project by the Gateway Council of Governments for an Intelligent Transportation System study on the Interstate 605-91 corridor, which is currently being developed and would improve traffic flow. Other issues discussed were the Congresswoman’s continuing efforts to win federal dollars for a downtown parking structure, which would reduce traffic and ease parking problems in the city. “Whether it be investing in local road improvements, congestion or parking issues, I will continue to work to ensure the needs of Artesia are met at the federal level,” concluded Sánchez. Most recently, Congresswoman Sánchez secured federal funds through the United States Postal Service for a parking lot renovation and the construction of a mail drop-off lane at the Artesia Post Office, which was completed in June of last year.
01.25.2006	LA MIRADA - On Tuesday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez presented the city of La Mirada a check for $1.75 million in federal funds she was able to secure for local city projects. The funds include $150,000 for the La Mirada Aquatic Center, $125,000 for a City Hydrology Study, and $1.36 million from TEA-LU for improvements to Imperial Highway. Also included in TEA-LU was $120,000 for a regional project that will provide advanced engineering work on the widening of the I-5 freeway in La Mirada and five other cities between the 710 freeway and the Orange County line. “From investing in local transportation improvements to flood control research to the construction of a new aquatic center, I will continue to work to ensure the needs of La Mirada are met at the federal level,” said Sánchez. Working to improve our local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) met with Mayor Bob Chotiner and other city officials at La Mirada City Hall on Tuesday to discuss issues facing the city. Each year, Congresswoman Sánchez meets with mayors and other city officials from every city in the 39th District to find ways the federal government can assist them. “For every dollar paid in federal taxes, the state of California receives only 76 cents back,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These meetings are critical to determine the needs and priorities of the community, and discuss ways in which I can work to bring more federal dollars back to the 39th District so that we get our fair share.” Congresswoman Sánchez also pledged her continuing support to the city of La Mirada, stating she will work in Congress to secure federal dollars for local projects such as renovation of Behringer Athletic Field, flood control improvements, and new busses with a fixed route system similar to that introduced in Cerritos intended to enhance public transportation and ease traffic congestion.
01.25.2006	SOUTH GATE - Working to improve commuting and safety in local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) was in South Gate on Tuesday to present the city a check for $2.95 million for local projects. These funds include $100,000 to begin a School Resource Officer program, $250,000 to purchase a clean-air natural-gas powered bus, and $2.6 million to renovate Atlantic Avenue. “Early last year I came to the South Gate City Council and asked what I could do in Washington to help with any local projects,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The federal funding I secured for the city will go a long way in ensuring safety for our schools, cleaner air and better transportation.” The projects to be funded through TEA-LU (Transportation Equity Act A Legacy for Users) that passed earlier this year include: $100,000 for the “School Resource Officer” program which will be used to hire a specially trained police officer who will be stationed full-time on a school campus. This has proven to be a very successful program in reducing youth and gang violence on and around school campuses in other cities. $250,000 to create circulator bus system in South Gate to help seniors, students and others get around the city more easily. Although the city still needs to work out the details of the circulator bus, the allotment of federal funds will assist them greatly in getting the system started. $2.6 million in federal funds to renovate Atlantic Avenue. The funds for the Atlantic Avenue renovation project are the largest allotment of federal transportation funds for any project in the 39th District. “Part of the federal taxes that all of us pay are used for local community development projects, and I have made it my priority in Congress to bring home our fair share of those federal dollars,” said Sánchez. “I am very proud to present the city of South Gate these important funds that will help improve the city,” said Sánchez.
01.24.2006	CERRITOS - Working to improve our local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) met with Mayor Pro Tem Paul Bowlen and other city officials at Cerritos City Hall last Friday to discuss issues and priorities for the city of Cerritos. Each year, Congresswoman Sánchez meets with mayors and other city officials from every city in the 39th District to identify ways the federal government can assist them. “For every dollar paid in federal taxes, the state of California receives only 76 cents back,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These meetings are critical to determine the needs and priorities of the community, and discuss ways in which I can work to bring more federal dollars back to the 39th District so that we get our fair share.” Specifically, Sánchez and city officials discussed pursuing federal funding for the Cerritos Museum which is now under development, funds to enhance the Del Amo Street Bridge, additional funds for more Cerritos on Wheels busses, and reservoir improvements. Also discussed were regional transportation projects regarding traffic studies for the 91- 605 corridor. “Whether it be investing in public transportation, local road improvements or water projects, I will continue to work to ensure the needs of Cerritos are met at the federal level,” concluded Sánchez. Since coming into office in 2003, Congresswoman Sánchez has delivered approximately $1.8 million in federal funds for Cerritos projects. Most recently, Congresswoman Sánchez secured federal funds to replace Cerritos’ older diesel busses and replace them with larger, natural-gas busses that reduce air pollution.
01.19.2006	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Reps. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) and Barbara Lee (CA-9), along with fifteen other members of the California Congressional delegation, sent a letter to the Regents of the University of California urging the Board of Regent to develop and approve a University plan for divestment from Sudan. The letter recognizes the tragedy that has occurred in Sudan in recent years, and the University’s obligation to the sound investment of the University’s endowment, but also points out the unique position of the University to influence the situation in Darfur by sending a strong message that the University will not passively condone government sponsored genocide. “I was approached by several student groups in my district, very concerned about the government-sponsored genocide in Sudan,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am very pleased that student groups not only at the University of California, but across the country, are organizing around this issue and pressuring their schools to invest with a social conscious,” added Sánchez. In recent years the government-sponsored genocide in Sudan has murdered 400,000 Dafurians, displaced over 2.5 million people and razed nearly 70 percent of Darfur’s villages. In response to the tragic genocide, universities such as Harvard, Stanford, and Dartmouth, along with several states, including New Jersey, Oregon and Illinois, have imposed varying restrictions on Sudan-related investments. Numerous more universities and states have taken divestment plans under consideration. The increase in participation by not only universities but states proves that substantial divestment from Sudan is now financially possible. “If the University of California goes through with its plan to divest in Sudan, it will send a very clear message to the Sudanese government that their gruesome tactics and state-sponsored terror will not be tolerated,” concluded Sánchez. Other members that co-signed the letter: Reps. Nancy Pelosi, Howard Berman, Louise Capps, Susan Davis, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Mike Honda, Tom Lantos, Zoe Lofgren, Juanita Millinder-McDonald, Grace Napolitano, Loretta Sánchez, Brad Sherman, Hilda Solis, Pete Stark, Ellen Tauscher, Diane Watson, and Henry Waxman.
01.18.2006	Washington, D.C. - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez returned to the nations capital today to join House and Senate Democrats as they unveiled their Honest Leadership, Open Government Act, which serves as an aggressive reform package intended to reverse the Republican abuse of power while hoping to restore the American peoples trust in their government. The cost of corruption in Republican-run Washington is felt by families in Southern California and across America in the form of higher gas prices and higher prescription drug costs, said Congresswoman Sánchez. While Republicans reward the wealthy and special interest groups, the priorities of the American people remain forgotten. That is why Democrats are offering real reforms to clean up Washington. Congresswoman Sánchez unveiled the Honest Leadership, Open Government Act in the Great Hall of the Library of Congress with her fellow Democratic Members of Congress, and was joined by an audience of good government groups working to protect the public trust and force Congress to focus on the priorities of the American people. The reform package that congressional Democrats proposed today will clean up the Republicans corrupt pay-to-play system and give Americans the open government they deserve, continued Sánchez. The Honest Leadership and Open Government Act will focus reforms on four key areas: It will close the revolving door between government and K Street lobbying firms by strengthening the ban on lobbying by former Members of Congress and senior government officials after they leave to work in the private sector, and require lawmakers to disclose when they are negotiating private-sector jobs to shine the light on conflicts of interest. It will fix the gift and travel rules that allowed the Jack Abramoffs of the world to buy Republican influence in Congress, ensuring that legislation will never again be written in smoke-filled back rooms by industry lobbyists. It will put an end to the K Street project, in which Republicans have limited political access to corporations and lobbying firms who hire Republicans and contribute heavily to Republican campaigns. It will increase accountability in government, and allow the public to see exactly what their elected representatives are doing in Washington. House Democrats returned to Washington, DC for an issues conference this week, while their Republican counterparts delayed the return of Congress until the very end of January, in a futile attempt to give their former Majority Leader Tom Delay time to finish his trial in Texas and return as their leader. Such an audacious act of putting one mans political career over the interests of all Americans is just one of the many examples of Republican abuse of power that prompted me and my fellow Democrats to take action. America can and will do better. concluded Sánchez.
12.20.2005	Bullying, Cyberbullying and Gang Prevention Language Included in Dept. of Justice Reauthorization Act Passed by House Today Washington, D.C. - Working to help keep our communities safe, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) assisted passage today of the Department of Justice Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3402) which contains part of her bi-partisan “Bullying and Gang Prevention for School Safety and Crime Reduction Act of 2005” (H.R.283). This bill is expected to be signed into law by the president within the coming days. “This bill provides new options for schools to finance proven bullying and gang prevention programs. It is essential that we ensure a safe environment for our children, where they can learn and succeed without fear, hurt or intimidation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The provisions of Congresswoman Sánchez’ bill that were included in the Justice Department legislation amend the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant (JABG) program to allow states and localities to use grant funds for bullying and gang prevention programs, and allows the Attorney General to recommend states use JABG funds for such programs. To address emerging challenges, Sánchez also included language in the Department of Justice Reauthorization Act to combat cyberbullying, which is a new method of bullying perpetrated with new technologies. “Now that bullies have email accounts, instant messaging, and cell phones, they can threaten and intimidate their victims 24 hours a day. This is a new issue that needs new solutions. My amendment will help schools provide those new approaches for their students,” added Sánchez. Sánchez’ legislation has the support of Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, a bipartisan, non-profit organization of police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, and crime victims dedicated to preventing crime and violence by finding ways to prevent kids from becoming criminals. The group recently completed a study titled, “Bullying Prevention Is Crime Prevention,” that found children who are the victims of bullying are more likely to commit suicide, and bullies are more likely to become adult career criminals as adults. “More and more children are getting involved in bullying and gang activity at an early age. Bullying and gangs have become an epidemic in our country and prevention is a critical first step. With the passage of this bill, federal funds can be utilized for proven programs that promote safety in our schools, protect our children and make our communities safer,” concluded Sánchez. Because the Sánchez bill amends existing statutes, it will not require any additional federal funds.
12.16.2005	Washington, DC- In an effort to celebrate the diversity of our nation, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez introduced a resolution today in the U.S. House of Representatives recognizing and protecting all symbols and traditions that Americans observe this time of year. “I represent one of the most diverse Congressional Districts in the country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I think it is very important that Congress, who represents people of all faiths and traditions, recognize the importance of all their holidays,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The resolution states “The House of Representatives recognizes the importance of the symbols and traditions of all Americans including observers of Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanza, Eid al-Adha, Lohri, Bodhi Day, the Birth of Guru Gobind Singh, Yule, Zarathosht Diso, Three Kings Day, the Feast of the Nativity, and other celebrations; strongly disapproves of attempts to ban references to these traditions and expresses support for these traditions and use of their symbols, for those who celebrate these holidays.” Congresswoman Sánchez introduced the resolution after Representative Joann Davis (R-VA) introduced a similar resolution earlier in the week that only recognized the symbols and traditions of Christmas as those that should be protected and supported. The resolution is cosponsored by Congresswoman Shelly Berkley. This measure, which is non-binding and does not carry the force of law, simply states Congressional support for the holiday symbols and traditions of all Americans.
12.16.2005	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA) issued the following statement after passage of H.R. 4437, the “Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005.” The measure passed by a vote of 239-182. “As the daughter of immigrants I take great offense that such a mean spirited, anti-immigrant piece of legislation was approved by the House of Representatives. America deserves better than this badly thought out bill. This bill is not about border security or national security. It just provides a false sense of securityfailing to respond to the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission, leaving our ports of entry exposed, and doing nothing meaningful to fix our broken immigration laws. I hope the Senate will have a more thorough discussion about comprehensive immigration reform border security PLUS interior enforcement and a path to legalization.”
12.15.2005	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in strong opposition to H.R. 4437, the “Border Protection, Antiterrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005.” “Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition of H.R. 4437. “Americans are right to demand better border security and better enforcement of our immigration laws. But this bill is just a false sense of securityit does not secure our borders, and leaves our ports of entry exposed, and does nothing to reform our broken immigration system. What is needed is enforcement of laws that work and we can’t have this without comprehensive immigration reform. Even the President agrees with this! “We should not be debating a bill thrown together at the eleventh hour before we adjourn for recess. A bill that basically opens the door for witch-hunts of anyone who looks foreign and that erodes basic civil liberties and human rights of migrants, legal immigrants, and citizens. “In looking at the lack of merit in this bill, we need to ask ourselves what kind of America we want: Do we want an America where we have mass deportations? Do we want an America where police officers can randomly ask foreign-looking Americans to produce identification to prove their legal status? Do we want an America where people can be detained for life when their home country is unwilling to take them back? Do we want an America where Americans will have to carry national identification cards to travel, work or just walk down the street? Do we want an America that criminalizes 1.6 million children? Because that’s what this bill will do. “As the daughter of immigrants, I am offended by this bill. I ask my colleagues to think long-and-hard about the vote they are about to cast and the detrimental impact it will have on the proud tradition of immigration that this country was built on. Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.”
12.14.2005	Washington, DC- Today Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez introduced the “State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) Reimbursement Protection Act of 2005” as an amendment to the “Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act” (H.R. 4437) in the Rules Committee of the House of Representatives. “The vast majority of immigrants that come to this country are law abiding and contribute greatly to our country. However, criminal aliens are a burden on our criminal justice system,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “My amendment would increase funding for the SCAAP program to make sure that states and localities are paid back for the costs they incur with apprehending criminal aliens.” Under Congresswoman Sánchez’ amendment the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), which reimburses States and localities for criminal alien costs, would be authorized at $1 billion annually for the next ten years. It would also change the SCAAP reimbursement formula so that states and localities are reimbursed for not only post-conviction costs associated with criminal aliens, which is covered in existing law, but also pre-conviction costs. “Police officers in my district constantly tell me that criminal aliens are a drain on their resources, their manpower, and their budgets. They want to keep our communities safe but don’t have the resources to do it. My amendment would help fix that,” continued Sánchez. SCAAP is a federal program that was enacted in 1994 to reimburse states and localities for their costs of incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens accused of convicted of state and local offenses. On average states spend over $1 billion annually on costs for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens. However, time and again the Bush Administration has rejected reimbursement of states and localities for such costs and Congress continues to underfund it. “SCAAP has been proven to work in the last eleven years of its existence. Unfortunately it has been grossly underfunded by Congress at time when undocumented immigration is at a record high,” concluded Sánchez. A decision by the Rules Committee whether to allow a vote on the House floor on this amendment is expected late Wednesday night.
12.08.2005	Washington- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) issued this statement following passage of Chairman James Sensenbrenner’s Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005 in the House Judiciary Committee this afternoon. “I am very disillusioned with the passage of Chairman Sensenbrenner’s bill in the House Judiciary Committee this afternoon. This bill only offers sound bytes, not real solutions. It is a direct and unjust attack against immigrants in this country. You would think we would have learned from the last twenty years of short-sighted, enforcement-only immigration legislation that has resulted in the largest illegal population in our nation’s history. Yet, Mr. Sensenbrenner’s bill does more of the same. We should know by now that enforcement only doesn’t work. Republicans missed a critical chance today to seriously and comprehensively reform our very broken and backlogged immigration system. This country needs comprehensive immigration reformborder security PLUS interior enforcement and a path to legalization.” Congresswoman Sánchez is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and is serving her second term in the United States House of Representatives.
11.18.2005	Washington- In an effort to improve public transportation in the Southland, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez secured $400,000 for the city of Lakewood to improve the city’s bus system. Sánchez secured the funds through the Transportation Appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 392-31 and is expected to be signed by the President. “I am very pleased to have secured these funds to improve the bus system in Lakewood,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As we encourage more people to use public transportation, it is important we make riding the bus a more appealing and attractive alternative. These funds will help give a face-lift to the Lakewood bus system and attract more riders,” added Sánchez. The funds will help pay for improvements to Lakewood’s transit system by upgrading bus stop shelters. Improvements will include solar lit canopies with matching benches and trash cans at 8 locations as well as fifty new bus stop benches throughout the city. The improved features will be resistant to vandalism and graffiti, which are designed to make the bus stops more user-friendly and aesthetically pleasing to the community. "Congresswoman Sánchez has come through again for Lakewood,” said Lakewood Mayor Joe Esquivel. “We'll use this new federal funding to expand a program of bus stop improvements the city has already begun. Convenient, comfortable bus stops are helping to make public transit a workable alternative to solo commuting by car,” concluded Esquivel.
11.18.2005	Washington-Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez secured $150,000 in federal funds for the City of La Mirada to help the city construct a long-awaited aquatic center with swimming pools at La Mirada Regional Park. Sánchez secured the funds in an appropriations bill for community development projects and other programs run by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The bill passed in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 392-31. The President has indicated that he will sign the bill into law shortly. “Many La Mirada residents have long awaited this aquatic center. I am very pleased to have secured federal funds to help bring their dream of an aquatic center to reality,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Construction on the new aquatic center is expected to begin in March 2006, with the center opening in the spring of 2007. “La Mirada’s new Aquatic Center will offer recreational, instructional, therapeutic, and competitive opportunities for all ages,” says City Manager Andrea M. Travis. “This state of the art complex will enable children to swim and explore, teens to gather and meet new friends, adults to exercise and spend time with their families, and seniors to socialize and be physically active." The Aquatic Center will feature a 50-meter pool, a 25-yard pool and other recreational amenities. The estimated cost is approximately $15.5 million. The federal contribution will pay for a portion of the facility reducing the amount La Mirada has to pay from its own revenues. Other key partners in the project include the City of La Mirada, La Mirada Community Services Foundation, and Industry Hills Aquatics. There is strong community support for construction of an Aquatic Center. A recent telephone survey of 400 La Mirada residents conducted by Godbe Research and Analysis last summer showed a majority of residents favoring the development of an Aquatic Center.
11.18.2005	Washington-In an effort to improve public transportation in the Southland, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) announced today that she secured $200,000 to improve the “Easy Rider” transit system in the city of Paramount. Sánchez secured the funds through the Transportation Appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 392-31 and is expected to be signed by the President. “I am very pleased to have secured these funds to improve the transit system in Paramount,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As we encourage more people to use public transportation, it is important that public transportation not only be appealing but environmentally friendly,” concluded Sánchez. The funds Sánchez secured will help purchase a new clean-air, natural-gas burning bus for the “Easy Rider” transit system in Paramount. Most of the riders of the Easy Rider program are senior citizens and students that use the transportation regularly. The new bus will be able to accommodate 30 passengers and include a wheelchair lift for disabled riders. At the same time, the bus will improve air quality in our community by replacing an existing diesel powered bus. “We appreciate the Congresswoman’s help and all the efforts she has made of the city’s behalf,” said Paramount Mayor Diane J. Martinez. “Paramount’s Easy Rider shuttle system is a great, low-cost service for many of our residents who need to get around town or connect to larger transit networks. By providing federal funds to replace an old vehicle with a new, clean-fuel burning shuttle, Congresswoman Sánchez is helping our community in a variety of waysenhancing this important service, improving rider comfort and being environmentally aware,” concluded Mayor Martinez.
11.18.2005	WASHINGTON- Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez issued the following statement following passage of the Republican sponsored budget reconciliation bill in the House of Representatives by a vote of 217-215 late Thursday night. “Today is a sad day for hardworking Americans. After several postponements, arm twisting and last minute backdoor deals, Republicans finally bullied their way into passing an unconscionable budget. This budget provides tax giveaways for the wealthiest Americans and pays for them out of the pockets of middle class Americans. This budget is fiscally irresponsibleit takes food out of the mouths of children, takes healthcare away from people that need it most and crushes the dreams of young people who want to go to college, but now will not be able to afford it. This is the worst example of this Republican Congress’ backwards priorities. I could not support this reckless budget because American can do better.”
11.09.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Working hard to bring new infrastructure and resources to the 39th District of California, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) secured $125,000 for a critical hydrology/hydraulics study in the City of La Mirada. The funding was secured in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill that passed the United States House of Representatives today by a vote of 399-17. The earmark will fund a much needed hydrology/hydraulics study to be performed by the Army Corps of Engineers in the city of La Mirada that will lay the groundwork for a flood control system in the near future. “Funding this project is a key step in improving La Mirada’s flood control system---not only for the benefit of La Mirada residents, but also for the thousands of residents of other communities living near the city’s creeks, channels and outdated flood control system,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The City’s storm drain system was originally constructed more than fifty years ago. Because of the geological landscape and location of La Mirada, there is a very limited and aged flood control system that has made the area prone to localized flooding and has created the potential for more wide-spread flooding as the system continues to age. The proposed hydrology/hydraulics study was formulated in consultation and support from the local Army Corps of Engineers office in Los Angeles. In addition, the city of La Mirada would fund 50% of the total $500,000 for the study.
11.09.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- Working to protect the safety and security of our children, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that she secured $100,000 for School Resource Officer Program in South Gate. Sánchez had the project included in the Science, State, Justice and Commerce Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 397-19. “School Resource Officers are specially trained community police officers who work with students and faculty to develop crime prevention strategies, train students in conflict resolution, and provide early intervention to prevent drug and gang problems,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The School Resource Officers Program (SROs) provides uniformed police officers in area high schools to serve as liaisons between community youths and the police department. They have a proven track record of success in other cities near South Gate. With the forces of rapid population growth and expansion of the public school system, gangs are a rising epidemic in the South Gate community, resulting in tension on school campuses and an increase in violence, crime and other delinquent activity. “I am delighted to have received funding for this program which will help improve public safety and education in South Gate. Having police officers available as resources in public schools affords our children and our communities an opportunity to avoid trouble before it begins. School Resource Officers provide security, but they also do much more by helping students, teachers and administrators identify risks and prevent dangerous situations,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. In a meeting with Congresswoman Sánchez earlier this year, South Gate City leaders made the SRO program a top priority request for federal assistance. “The School Resource Officer program is vital to our efforts to ensure the safety of our youth in South Gate, who are the future of our community. SRO’s have been shown to be highly effective in positively impacting attendance and creating safer campuses. The city looks forward to working with the school district in this partnership and we are very grateful to Congresswoman Sánchez’ hard work to secure our funding,” said South Gate Mayor Greg Martinez. The requested funds will be used to pay for the salary, equipment and administrative costs for this valuable youth crime prevention program. The SRO program is a partnership between the City of South Gate and the South Gate Police Activity League (PAL). “Putting these police officers in the schools will not only keep our kids safe, but also will contribute to a more secure learning environment, which is absolutely essential if we want our students to realize their academic potential,” concluded Sánchez.
11.08.2005	Washington, DC - In an effort to restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act in its upcoming reauthorization, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) submitted the following remarks into the record for the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution’s hearing today, “Voting Rights Act: Section 203: Bilingual Election Requirements.” "Thank you Chairman Chabot and Ranking Member Nadler for convening this important hearing today on “Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act, the Bilingual Election Requirements.” "I am a Latina Member of Congress who represents a Congressional district with a substantial Latino and Asian population. Since the year 2000 in Los Angeles County, where my district lies, Hispanic, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese language minorities have been covered by Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act. It is because of my first hand experience that I believe that Section 203 is an essential provision of the Voting Rights Act, and that it needs to be reauthorized and amended to cover all language minority communities. In jurisdictions where large numbers of language minorities reside, Section 203 requires bilingual election materials and ballots, to ensure these communities can fully participate in the electoral process. "Without the protections of Section 203, thousands of eligible Latino and Asian citizens would be discouraged from participating in the electoral process, and the advances toward political and social empowerment they have made over the last 3 decades would come to a halt. Take, for example, the progress Latinos have made in elections nationwide. In 1974, the year before Section 203 of the Voting Rights Act was enacted there were approximately 1,200 Latino elected officials in the United States. Today there are over 6,000 local, state, and federal electeds, including the 22 Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Moreover, those Members of the CHC who represent “majority-minority” districts drawn as a direct result of the Voting Rights Act such as Congressmen Ed Pastor from Arizona and José Serrano from New York, rely on the ability of all voters, including those whose primary language is Spanish, to get to the polls and cast their votes. "If Spanish-speaking voters can’t read the voter registration materials, they may miss a filing deadline and be ineligible to vote. If they can’t fully understand their absentee ballot or the instructions on the voting machine, they may inadvertently cast their vote for the wrong candidate or initiative. Any voting practice that results in Latino and other minority voters failing to elect the candidates of their choice is at odds with the intent and the spirit of the Voting Rights Act, and the purpose of Section 203. As recently as 1992, Section 203 was reauthorized because evidence was presented to Congress that discrimination against language minorities persisted, and that discrimination diminished those citizens from participating fully and effectively in the electoral process. Section 203 not only minimizes purposeful discrimination, it also encourages full participation by all voters. "Critics of Section 203 argue that the provision should be eliminated because only citizens are eligible to vote, and English proficiency is a prerequisite to attaining citizenship. Therefore, the critics argue, Section 203 is not needed. This argument is without merit and should be ignored. U.S. citizens who have immigrated to the United States but are more comfortable with a language other than English are no less entitled to participation in the voting process than English-speaking citizens for whom English is their first language. After all they pay taxes like every other citizen. "Voting ballots at times can be confusing for people whose first or only language is English. Some citizens who have acquired English fluency later in life, such as my parents, may be greatly assisted by having materials in their first language. Furthermore, we also need to recognize Native American communities who have lived here before English was ever spoken on this continent. Our voting system should not impose any language barriers on Native American communities’ participation in elections. "I strongly believe that Section 203 should be reauthorized, and the numerical trigger to require language assistance should be reduced from 10,000 to 7,500 to ensure that more language minority voters, especially Asian Americans, have election materials and ballots they can fully understand. Again, I thank Chairman Chabot and Ranking Member Nadler for the courtesy of allowing me to participate in this hearing and including my remarks in the record. I also thank our witnesses on both Section 203 hearing panels for their informative testimony. I yield back the balance of my time."
11.04.2005	“Good morning. I am Congresswoman Linda Sánchez from California, vice-chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Civil Rights Task Force. “This week, President Bush nominated Judge Samuel Alito to serve on the United States Supreme Court to fill the vacancy left by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. This is a lifetime appointment to the highest court in our country. The Supreme Court’s decisions have a profound impact on our civil rights and liberties now and in the future. “Since our country is comprised of people from a number of nationalities and cultures, I believe that our highest court should reflect that diversity. The Hispanic community is the largest minority group in the United States, but we are grossly under-represented in the judicial branch. “When Justice O’Connor announced her retirement, Hispanics asked the President, on various occasions, to consider a qualified Hispanic for the Supreme Court. The Hispanic community has many lawyers, judges, and outstanding legal scholars who are eminently qualified to be a Justice of the United States Supreme Court. This is the third time that President Bush ignored our community and missed a historic opportunity to nominate a qualified Hispanic to the Supreme Court to satisfy the extreme right wing of his party. “The radical right wing rejected Harriet Miers because she wasn’t conservative enough. This is why the President has nominated someone even more conservative. This nomination raises serious concerns for our community’s rights and well being. The President’s priority, however, is to follow the desires of this extreme group. “Judge Alito now has the responsibility to demonstrate his commitment to our civil rights and equal access to education. In addition, he must demonstrate that he has the qualifications to deal with the problems and concerns of our community, and that he is suitable for a lifetime position on the Supreme Court. “President Bush has also failed our community when it comes to creating jobs, providing health care security, and his poor response to help the survivors of Hurricane Katrina. On immigration, President Bush has not stood up against the vicious anti-immigrant attacks from the far right of his party in Congress. “I am disappointed with the President’s decision and I am very concerned with the direction that the Supreme Court could take with a Justice Alito. It is also frustrating to see how little importance the President gives to the Latino community and the lack of interest in integrating us into all aspects of society. “Democrats have always stood up for the interests of Latino families and all hard working Americans. Our vision of equality and opportunity contrasts with the culture of corruption and cronyism that Republicans have brought to Congress, the federal government, and now, the Supreme Court. “Together, America Can Do Better! “Democrats will continue to support policies that help all Americans especially Latinos achieve the American Dream. “I am Congresswoman Linda Sánchez from California. Thank you for listening.”
11.02.2005	Alito Seen as Threat to Women’s Rights if Confirmed as Supreme Court Justice Washington, D.C. Today on the steps of the Supreme Court, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) joined other leading women Members of Congress to express deep concern over the extreme views of Supreme Court Justice nominee, Judge Samuel Alito, on issues facing women in America. Rep. Sánchez was joined by Members Louise M. Slaughter of New York and fellow Californians Barbara Lee, Hilda Solis, and Lynn Woolsey. “If Judge Alito is confirmed, he will create a seismic shift on the court affecting women’s daily lives for generations to come,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I hope that both Republicans and Democrats in the Senate realize the negative impact Judge Alito could have on the future of privacy rights, civil rights, and minority rights.” Judge Alito’s record shows a clear hostility towards many important issues facing women today, such as sexual and workplace discrimination, access to family and medical leave, civil liberties, and reproductive rights. Alito’s confirmation would also reduce the diversity on the court. His appointment would leave only one woman and one minority on the Supreme Court in a country that prides itself on the great diversity of its citizens. “It is a slap in the face to women across America, to replace Sandra Day O’Connor with a man who’s insensitive to women when it comes to their health, equality on the job and their dignity,” continued Sánchez. “Lets face it, America can do better!”
10.26.2005	Washington, DC- Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, co-chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, issued the following statement today as the Bush Administration announced the Davis-Bacon Act will be reinstated for reconstruction projects along the Gulf Coast related to Hurricane Katrina. The act, which had been temporarily waived, ensures that workers hired for government projects are paid prevailing local wages, usually the union rate. “I am very pleased that President Bush finally relented and reinstated Davis-Bacon, almost two months after he first suspended it. The President’s bad judgment and refusal to reinstate Davis-Bacon the last two months resulted in lost jobs and wages for hard-working people in the Gulf Coast who were displaced by low-paid out-of-state workers. I hope that this action will give a boost to the hundreds of thousands of workers in the Gulf Region who are rebuilding their lives and communities.”
10.18.2005	As Hearings Begin, Sánchez Seeks to Strengthen Sections 5 and 203 Washington, DC- In an effort to restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act in its upcoming reauthorization, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez submitted these remarks into the record for the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution’s hearing today, “Examining the Impact and Effectiveness of the Voting Rights Act”. “In my opinion and the opinion of many leaders in the civil rights community, the Voting Rights Act has had a tremendous impact on the voting rights of all minority groups, including Latinos. The Voting Rights Act is one of the most successful and exercised civil rights laws in American history, and this landmark legislation has effectively given all Americans political power and voter enfranchisement. “For Latinos and other communities suffering from long histories of discrimination and disenfranchisement, the Voting Rights Act has been key to gaining equality and fairness in the electoral process. Before the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965, literacy tests, poll taxes and intentionally discriminatory mechanisms were used to keep Latinos and other minorities from the polls. “Today, many of the advancements and achievement of Latinos in our democracy are a direct result of the Voting Rights Act. Several current Members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus would not be in the House of Representatives today without the Voting Rights Act. Members such as Congressmen Ed Pastor of Arizona and José Serrano of New York have districts that were drawn as a direct result of the Voting Rights Act. This vital statute also opened the door to empower individuals like Willie Velazquez, whose mission in life was to register Hispanic Americans. Today, we all know that his slogan ‘Su voto es su voz’ (‘Your vote is your voice’) continues to resonate in our community today. “The positive impact the Voting Rights Act has had on all Latinos is evident. For instance, when the VRA was enacted in 1965, about two-and-a-half million Latinos were registered to vote. Today there are 9.3 million Latinos registered to vote. In the past three decades, Latino registration has quadrupled, while our participation in elections has tripled. In the 1976 presidential election, about 2 million ballots were cast by Hispanic Americans and in 2004 that number climbed to a record 7.5 million. In 1974, there were about 1,200 Latino elected officials. Today there are 6,000. I am proud that my sister and I are two of those 6,000 Latino elected officials, the first sisters ever elected to the United States Congress. While we have come a long way from the widespread use of such blatant tactics as literacy tests to deny Latinos of their voting rights, more subtle efforts persist. “For example, in 1988 the Orange County Republican Party hired uniformed security guards to be posted at polling places in heavily Latino precincts. The guards, wearing blue uniforms and badges, were removed from polling places after the chief deputy secretary of state said their presence was an “unlawful intimidation of voters.” The next year, the Orange County GOP paid $400,000 to settle a lawsuit stemming from their voter intimidation program. “Many communities still rely on the Voting Rights Act to maintain full participation in local, state, and federal elections. I my home state of California in 2004, 26 out of 58 counties are covered by the language minority provisions of the Voting Rights Act. Within those 26 counties, there are 26 Hispanic communities, 6 Chinese communities, 3 Filipino and Vietnamese communities, and two American Indian communities where language minorities are covered by the Voting Rights Act. These protections allow millions of voters to make their voices heard on Election Day. California is also one of ten states with overlapping coverage under Section 203 and Section 5, two of the most important provisions of the Voting Rights Act for language minorities. Section 5 has prevented jurisdictions from redrawing district lines or otherwise amending election procedures in a way that discriminates against Latino voters by requiring those jurisdictions to get pre-clearance of any changes in electoral practices from the Department of Justice. Section 203 is vitally important to Latinos because it requires certain jurisdictions to provide bilingual assistance to language minority citizens at all stages of the voting process. “As the U.S. House of Representatives begins reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act, we must recognize that Section 5 and Section 203 are not mutually exclusive. These two sections have worked together to protect Latinos and must be reauthorized together to permanently preserve voting rights for Latinos and all language minority groups. As the Judiciary Committee, the House, and the Senate, work to reauthorize the VRA, we must ensure that Section 5, Section 203, and all of the expiring provisions are not only reauthorized, but strengthened to preserve and cultivate total participation in the voting process. “Voting is the one way that every American citizen is able to directly participate in our democracy. The Voting Rights Act is invaluable in preserving equal participation for all Americans in our government. This legislation must be reauthorized. I look forward to the testimony of the Subcommittee’s distinguished panel of witnesses. I am positive their testimony will begin the process of establishing a thorough Congressional record in support of reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act.”
10.11.2005	Paramount- In an effort to improve traffic flow and safety, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez secured $320,000 in federal funding for repair and improvements to Bloomfield Avenue in Hawaiian Gardens. The funding came from the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) that was signed into law on August 10th. On Tuesday, Congresswoman Sánchez attended the Hawaiian Gardens City Council meeting to present a ceremonial check of the funds to the city. “I am pleased to have secured funding for improvements to Bloomfield Avenue in Hawaiian Gardens. These improvements will help improve the safety and appearance of Bloomfield Avenue. As one of the heaviest traveled streets in Hawaiian Gardens, Bloomfield is in need of repair and modernization to make it safer for both drivers and pedestrians,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The improvements to Bloomfield Avenue will include a complete asphalt-concrete overlay, the construction of landscaped medians for safety, replacement of the curbs and gutters, and the repair of sidewalks and bus pads.
10.08.2005	Democratic Hispanic Radio Address Congresswoman Linda Sánchez Air Date: October 8, 2005 “Good morning. I am Congresswoman Linda Sánchez from California. “This week, President Bush nominated Harriet Miers, one of his closest friends, to serve on the United States Supreme Court a lifetime appointment on the highest court in our country. The Supreme Court’s decisions have serious implications for our civil rights and our liberties." “Once again, President Bush has missed a historic opportunity to nominate a qualified Hispanic to the Supreme Court. In seeking to put his friend on the Supreme Court, the President overlooked many qualified Hispanics. The Hispanic community has many lawyers, judges, and outstanding legal scholars who are eminently qualified to be a Justice of the United States Supreme Court. “I'm disappointed he did not look to our nation's largest minority community to fill this critical vacancy on the Supreme Court. The Hispanic community is the largest minority group in the United States, but we are grossly under-represented in the judicial branch. It is difficult to understand the President's decision to once again bypass the Hispanic community. “While I will reserve judgment on the Miers nomination, Ms. Miers has the burden of demonstrating that that she is committed to our civil rights, and is suitable for a lifetime position on the Supreme Court. As one conservative columnist noted, the Supreme Court is too significant to reduce it ‘to a private plaything useful for fulfilling whims on behalf of friends.’ “President Bush has not only squandered this opportunity, but he has also failed our community when it comes to a lack of creating jobs, lack of health care security, and his poor response to the survivors of Hurricane Katrina. On immigration, President Bush has not stood up against the vicious anti-immigrant attacks from the far right of his party. “Democrats have always stood up for the interests of Latino families and all hard working Americans. Our vision of equality and opportunity contrasts with the culture of corruption and cronyism that Republicans have brought to Congress, the federal government, and now, the Supreme Court. “Democrats will continue to support policies that help all Americans especially Latinos achieve the American Dream. “I am Congresswoman Linda Sánchez from California. Thank you for listening.”
10.07.2005	Sánchez speaks out in Small Business Committee Condemning Unethical Contracting and Poverty Wages that will Impede Revitalization of the Gulf Coast Region WASHINGTON- Alarmed at the situation that has ensued in the Gulf Coast since President Bush’s waiver of the Davis-Bacon Act on September 8th, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) spoke out today at the Small Business Committee’s hearing on “Small Businesses and Katrina: Rebuilding the Economy.” In her remarks she encouraged Members of Congress to take a closer look at the situation and is urging President Bush to revisit his decision to suspend the Davis-Bacon Act. “As if the people of the Gulf Coast haven’t suffered enough, the Bush Administration has implemented policies that are allowing contractors to pay sub-par wages and import workers from other parts of the country to rebuild the region. This is morally reprehensible. We need to ensure Louisianans rebuild Louisiana, Mississippians rebuild Mississippi, but that is NOT what’s happening and we can thank President Bush for that,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. Members of International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local 130 based in Metairie, Louisiana are the latest victims of President Bush’s waiver of the Davis-Bacon Act and his allowing out-of-state businesses to profit from the rebuilding of the Gulf Coast region. Electrical union members have said publicly that 75 electricians from New Orleans, Baton Rouge, and Lake Charles, LA were hired by a minority contractor a few weeks ago for a $163 million, 21-month project at the Naval Air Station in Belle Chasse to wire a “tent city” that would house 15,000 military personnel. However, four weeks into the project, BE&amp;K, the overall project contractor from Birmingham, AL, told the 75 workers that their services were no longer needed. Workers later found out that they were released so that BE&amp;K could replace them with out-of-state workers that would be paid HALF of what the workers were paid previously (they were being paid the prevailing wage for an electrician of $28 per hour, including benefits, while the out-of-state workers are paid only $14 per hour). “This is outrageous. Out of one side of his mouth, President Bush is talking about the importance of helping Gulf Coast families rebuild their communities and their lives. Out of the other side of his mouth, President Bush is allowing businesses to get away with robbing jobs from local workers. He’s allowing hurricane victims to be victimized a second time. Unfortunately, BE&amp;K’s replacement of local workers in Belle Chasse probably isn’t an isolated incident,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. “Local people are being treated like second class citizens in their own communities. These workers have lost everything, they are living in their cars and only have the clothes on their backs and now they don’t even have their jobs,” said IBEW member Roger Hammond.
10.04.2005	LAKEWOOD-Supporting efforts to improve Southern California’s air quality, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez participated in the South Coast Air Quality Management District’s (AQMD) “Ride n’ Drive” event today to promote everyday usage of alternative fuel technologies. Through this program, the AQMD is promoting the use of low and zero emission vehicles. Congresswoman Sánchez test drove the Mercedes Benz Hydrogen, the Toyota Prius Hybrid, and the Honda Hydrogen Fuel Cell cars. “The Los Angeles area is the second most populated urban area in the United States and one of the smoggiest,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Our vehicles produce almost half of the ozone forming pollution and we always need to find new ways to do our part to keep our air clean. New clean air technologies, such as low and zero emission vehicles are simple and efficient ways that we can play a part in protecting our environment,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. Sánchez has taken several actions in Congress to improve southland air quality including co-sponsoring the Gas Price Spike Act (H.R. 2070) which gives a $3,000-$6,000 income tax credit to those who purchase fuel efficient, American made passenger vehicles. Additionally, she secured $2.4 million for the Diesel Emission Reduction Program that pays part of the cost to help low-income independent truckers retire their older, heavily-polluting diesel trucks for newer, safer and much cleaner trucks. The funds secured by Sánchez--the largest federal infusion for the program to date--were part of the federal transportation bill signed into law this past August. “It is important that we reward consumers who make purchases that will have a positive effect on our environment,” added Sánchez. Air quality in the Los Angeles area has continually improved despite an enormous increase in population and cars. Even though recent years have been the cleanest on record, our air still exceeded the federal health standard for ozone on 28 days in 2004. Maximum levels are almost twice as high as the federal standard for clean air and the clean air effort still has a long way to go. State and federal law requires this area to meet existing clean air standards by the year 2010. However, new, tougher federal air quality standards for ozone and particulates issued in 1997 will require reductions above and beyond those already planned. AQMD estimates it will take until at least 2014 to meet all the new standards. “In today’s world of high gas prices, vehicles that use alternative fuel technologies are not only environmentally friendly; they are great for the pocket book. After today’s test drive, I am thinking about getting a low emission vehicle myself!” concluded Sánchez. The AQMD is the air pollution control agency for all of Orange County and the urban portions of Los Angeles, Riverside and San Bernardino counties. AQMD is responsible for controlling emissions primarily from stationary sources of air pollution.
09.28.2005	Bullying, Cyberbullying and Gang Prevention Language Included in Dept. of Justice Reauthorization Act Passed by House Today Washington, D.C. - Working to help keep our communities safe, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) assisted passage today of the Department of Justice Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3402) which contains part of her bi-partisan “Bullying and Gang Prevention for School Safety and Crime Reduction Act of 2005” (H.R.283). The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 415 to 4. “This bill provides new options for schools to finance proven bullying and gang prevention programs. It is essential that we ensure a safe environment for our children, where they can learn and succeed without fear, hurt or intimidation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The provisions of Congresswoman Sánchez’ bill that were included in the Justice Department legislation amend the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant (JABG) program to allow states and localities to use grant funds for bullying and gang prevention programs, and allows the Attorney General to recommend states use JABG funds for such programs. To address emerging challenges, Sánchez also included language in the Department of Justice Reauthorization Act to combat cyberbullying, which is a new method of bullying perpetrated with new technologies. “Now that bullies have email accounts, instant messaging, and cell phones, they can threaten and intimidate their victims 24 hours a day. This is a new issue that needs new solutions. My amendment will help schools provide those new approaches for their students,” added Sánchez. Sánchez’ legislation has the support of Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, a bipartisan, non-profit organization of police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, and crime victims dedicated to preventing crime and violence by finding ways to prevent kids from becoming criminals. The group recently completed a study titled, “Bullying Prevention Is Crime Prevention,” that found children who are the victims of bullying are more likely to commit suicide, and bullies are more likely to become adult career criminals as adults. “More and more children are getting involved in bullying and gang activity at an early age. Bullying and gangs have become an epidemic in our country and prevention is a critical first step. With the passage of this bill, federal funds can be utilized for proven programs that promote safety in our schools, protect our children and make our communities safer,” concluded Sánchez. Because the Sánchez bill amends existing statutes, it will not require any additional federal funds.
09.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Working to make college an achievable goal for every student, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez has recently added a new section to her website dedicated to helping students through the process of locating, applying and paying for student loans. “As a person who is still paying off student loans today, I know what it is like to have to pay your own way through college,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Having a college degree is worth every penny, and I want to provide students, teachers and parents with the tools they need to navigate financial aid and scholarship options.” The new section of Congresswoman Sánchez’s website helps all those are interested in student aid with the tools needed to understand the process of applying for and paying off student loans. It includes information for every step of the loan process and includes sections from getting started to repayment options and opinions. The new section can be found in her website at www.house.gov/lindasanchez in the services section. “I encourage all students, parents and teachers to utilize the site to gain a better understanding of student loans and current government legislation that will affect those loans,” continued Sánchez. “Knowledge is power, and I hope this site will give those who require financial aid the resources necessary to help them achieve a college degree.” Legislatively, Congressional Republicans have cut almost $9 billion from federal funded college student aid programs in the Higher Education Reauthorization Act that is still being worked on in the Senate and was passed out of Committee on July 22nd. This would be the single largest cut to federal financial aid in the nation’s history and will result in eliminating the resources necessary to expand educational opportunities in our country. Congresswoman Sánchez is committed to fighting against any action that will cut funding for student loans that allow hard working, aspiring students the opportunity to go to college. “Seats are empty in college classrooms all over the country due to the lack of affordability in higher education,” continued Sánchez. “We must all work together to improve the access and affordability of a college is education, that is so necessary in today’s world.”
08.30.2005	WHITTIER/LONG BEACH- In an effort to ensure the environmental integrity of road improvement projects in California, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez presented a combine $1.8 million to the cities of Long Beach and Whittier today. Sánchez secured the federal funds in the $286 million federal transportation bill, TEA-LU, which was signed into law on August 10th. The bill primarily funds transportation projects such as more freeway lanes and road improvement projects. However, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was able to secure funds for innovative environmental enhancements to local road improvement projects, two of which are in Long Beach and Whittier. Congresswoman Sánchez was joined by Long Beach Mayor Beverly O’Neill, Long Beach City Councilman Val Lerch, Whittier City Councilmembers, and officials from CalTrans, Los Angeles County Department of Public Works, Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council and the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy to unveil the plans for the environmentally conscious road projects. “I am very pleased to have been able to secure funding for these environmentally sound road improvement projects,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “These projects are the first one of their kind in California. I hope that other localities catch onto this environmentally friendly method of road construction and retrofitting in urban areas to enhance our local environment,” added Sánchez. In particular, the Long Beach project will receive $480,000 to improve Paramount Boulevard, which will include the installation of environmental features such as “bio-retention tree wells*” that receive stormwater from the gutter and also naturally absorb and clean the street water instead of allowing it to flow untreated into storm drains and to our local beaches and ocean. The Whittier project will receive $1.36 million to improve Whittier Boulevard, which will include the construction of a mile-long “bio-swale**” with natural landscaping along the roadway that will allow stormwater from the street gutter to flow into the bio-swale and be naturally absorbed and cleaned, rather than sending untreated storm water to our local beaches and oceans. “It is really the small forward thinking projects like this, that when added up, will really make an impact in saving our environment,” concluded Sánchez. Overall, Congresswoman Sánchez secured $12.8 million in federal funding through TEA-LU for transportation projects in the 39th Congressional District. *Bioretention removes storm water pollutants through physical and biological processes, including adsorption, filtration, plant uptake, microbial activity, decomposition, sedimentation and volatilization. Bioretention areas can provide excellent pollutant removal and recharge for the “first flush” of stormwater runoff. Properly designed cells remove suspended solids, metals, and nutrients, and can infiltrate an inch or more of rainfall. **A bio-swale is a type of stormwater filtration system. It is a shallow depression created in the earth to accept and convey stormwater runoff. A bioswale uses natural means, including vegetation and soil, to treat stormwater by filtering out contaminants being conveyed in the water.
08.30.2005	WHITTIER- In an effort to ensure the environmental viability of road improvement projects in California, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez presented $1.36 million to the city of Whittier which she secured in the $286 million federal transportation bill, TEA-LU which was signed into law on August 10th. The bill primarily funds transportation projects such as more freeway lanes and road improvement projects. However, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was able to also secure funds for innovative environmental enhancements to local road improvement projects, one of which is in Whittier. Congresswoman Sánchez was joined by Whittier City Council members and officials from CalTrans, Los Angeles Department of Public Works, Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council and the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy to unveil the plans for the environmentally conscious road project. “I am very pleased to have been able to secure funding for this environmentally sound road improvement projects,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This project is the first of its kind in California. I hope that other localities catch onto this environmentally friendly method of road construction and retrofitting in urban areas to help enhance our local environment,” added Sánchez. In particular, the Whittier project will receive $1.36 million to improve Whittier Boulevard, which will include the construction of a mile-long “bio-swale” with natural landscaping along the roadway that will allow stormwater from the street gutter to flow into the bio-swale and be naturally absorbed and cleaned, rather than sending untreated storm water to our local beaches and oceans. “It is really the small projects like this that, when added up, will really make an impact in saving our environment,” concluded Sánchez. Overall, Congresswoman Sánchez secured $12.8 million in federal funding through TEA-LU for transportation projects in the 39th Congressional District. A bio-swale is a type of stormwater filtration system. It is a shallow depression created in the earth to accept and convey stormwater runoff. A bioswale uses natural means, including vegetation and soil, to treat stormwater by filtering out contaminants being conveyed in the water.
08.30.2005	LONG BEACH- In an effort to ensure the environmental integrity of road improvement projects in California, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez presented $480,000 to the city of Long Beach today. Sánchez secured the federal funds in the $286 million federal transportation bill, TEA-LU, which was signed into law on August 10th. The bill primarily funds transportation projects such as more freeway lanes and road improvement projects. However, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez was able to secure funds for innovative environmental enhancements to local road improvement projects, one of which is in Long Beach. Congresswoman Sánchez was joined by Long Beach Mayor Beverly O’Neill, Long Beach City Councilman Val Lerch and officials from CalTrans, Los Angeles Department of Public Works, Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council and the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy to unveil the plans for the environmentally conscious road project. “I am very pleased to have been able to secure funding for this environmentally sound road improvement project,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “This project is the first one of its kind in California. I hope that other localities catch onto this environmentally friendly method of road construction and retrofitting in urban areas to enhance our local environment,” added Sánchez. In particular, the Long Beach project will receive $480,000 to improve Paramount Boulevard, which will include the installation of environmental features such as “bio-retention tree wells” that receive stormwater from the gutter and also naturally absorb and clean street water instead of allowing it to flow untreated into storm drains and to our local beaches and ocean. “It is really the small forward thinking projects like this, that when added up, will really make an impact in saving our environment,” concluded Sánchez. Overall, Congresswoman Sánchez secured $12.8 million in federal funding through TEA-LU for transportation projects in the 39th Congressional District. Bioretention removes storm water pollutants through physical and biological processes, including adsorption, filtration, plant uptake, microbial activity, decomposition, sedimentation and volatilization. Bioretention areas can provide excellent pollutant removal and recharge for the “first flush” of stormwater runoff. Properly designed cells remove suspended solids, metals, and nutrients, and can infiltrate an inch or more of rainfall.
08.15.2005	Speaks with Residents about Senior Fair and Issues Affecting the Senior Community Lakewood Congresswoman Linda Sánchez met with 39th District residents in a series of senior center visits in the cities of Lakewood, Paramount, La Mirada, Artesia, Cerritos and Whittier in the past few weeks. Sánchez provided constituents with information about her upcoming annual Senior Fair while also speaking individually with seniors about their concerns and ideas from Social Security reform to retirement benefits. “Personally meeting with the senior citizens of my district is vital in allowing me to effectively represent them in Congress,” said Sánchez. “I was happy to hear their comments and concerns while also getting the word out about my upcoming Senior Fair in October.” Congresswoman Sánchez’s Senior Fair 2005 will take place Monday, October 10th at Los Cerritos Center Mall from 9:00am to 12:00pm. The Fair will provide a variety of services for people over fifty. Dozens of exhibitors from throughout the region will offer information and services of interest for seniors and supply free health screenings and information. Congresswoman Sánchez will also give a personal update regarding current legislation in Congress that affects seniors. “My Senior Health and Information Fair will ensure that the seniors I represent have access to different information and services that can keep them safe and healthy,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “I look forward to having a successful and very informative Fair as we have had every year.” One of Sanchez’ top legislative priorities is to create and support initiatives that do not shortchange America’s seniors. By visiting various senior centers in her district and hosting a Senior Fair to hear their views on different issues affecting them, Sánchez remains attentive to the needs and concerns of senior citizens in her district.
08.10.2005	Long Beach- In an effort to recognize the importance of our local community colleges, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez gave the keynote address at Long Beach City College’s Annual College Day kickoff event today. Alongside Board of Trustees President, Dr. Tom Clark, Congresswoman Sánchez welcomed 30 new faculty, staff and students back to school. "Community colleges are invaluable to our communities,” said Congresswoman Sanchez. “They are engines of local economic growth--for every dollar we invest in them, we get an $18 million return in our investment,” added Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez has long been an advocate for community colleges and vocational education. Most recently, Sánchez cosponsored the College Affordability and Accountability Act which would make college more affordable by providing all students with additional grants to attend institutions of higher learning. “I am proud to support the efforts of Long Beach City College and community colleges throughout California as they are truly a gateway to opportunity and success for our young people,” concluded Sánchez. The Long Beach Community College District of which Long Beach City College is a part, is one of the large community college districts in the state. With two campuses it serves more than 30,000 students each year. The primary purposes of the education program are to prepare students for transfer to baccalaureate granting institutions, entry into work or career development and to support business and industry development. Long Beach City College serves the communities of Long Beach, Signal Hill, Lakewood, and Santa Catalina Island.
08.04.2005	LAKEWOOD- Congresswoman Linda Sánchez would like to recognize her District staff member, Patrick Rodriguez of Long Beach, who has been called up to active duty in Iraq as a member of the U.S. Army Reserve 35th Military History Detachment from Bell, California. He will report to duty on August 19 in Ft. Bliss, Texas, before leaving for Iraq in mid-October. “We will miss Patrick a lot. I think his deployment exemplifies the impact of this war in communities and businesses all across America. Democrat, Republican or Independent, soldiers and their families all over the United States are being affected. I wish him and all our servicemen and women overseas Godspeed and pray for their safe return home,” said Congresswoman Sanchez. Rodriguez’ service with Congresswoman Sánchez began in the early days of her campaign in 2002. He is the Congresswoman’s longest serving staff member. Patrick is no stranger to danger being previously deployed to Kosovo from April until November 2002. Born and raised in Texas he worked for the Texas Legislature and the Texas Chamber of Commerce before moving to Long Beach to work for the Congresswoman. Patrick has one son Johnny, and he and his wife Brenn are expecting a baby in 3 months. “Patrick has been with my staff since the very beginning. We will certainly miss him, but I am proud of his dedication to our country and am sure that we will do a wonderful job in Iraq. Patrick is a committed civil servant, serving his country at every level,” concluded Sánchez.
07.29.2005	Washington, D.C. -- Working to improve congestion on our roads and safety in local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) secured $12.8 million dollars for transportation projects across Southeastern Los Angeles County. These funds were secured as part of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (H.R. 3), also known as TEA-LU. This bill will determine government spending on surface transportation for the next six-years. TEA-LU passed today in the U.S. House of Representatives and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “I am very pleased to have secured funding for important transportation projects in the 39th District. These funds are needed to help restore damaged roads, reduce congestion, improve our air quality, and make highway travel safer and more efficient for everyone,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. Below is a list of projects Congresswoman Sánchez has earmarked for federal funding in this bill: $2,600,000 towards the reconstruction of Atlantic Avenue in South Gate. $2,480,000 for a major expansion of the Diesel Emissions Reduction Program for Gateway Cities Council of Governments. $2,400,000 for reconstruction of Long Beach Boulevard and improvements to the storm-drain system in Lynwood. $1,360,000 for improvements to the Imperial Highway and the construction of landscaped medians to improve safety and reduce congestion in La Mirada. $1,360,000 to improve street lighting, sidewalks, and roads to Whittier Boulevard in Whittier. $1,080,00 to create of landscaped medians and the repaving of Paramount Boulevard in Lakewood. $480,000 to repave and construct landscaped medians on Paramount Boulevard in North Long Beach. $320,000 for reconstruction of Rosecrans Boulevard in Paramount. $320,000 to reconstruct and add additional medians to Bloomfield Avenue in Hawaiian Gardens. $280,000 to initiate the preliminary engineering and environmental review for the 33 mile long Orange Line commuter train that would connect Los Angeles to Orange County. $120,000 to provide advanced engineering work on the widening of the I-5 freeway in La Mirada and five other cities between the 710 freeway and the Orange County line. “I am so pleased TEA-LU overwhelmingly passed tonight because we are in great need of federal dollars for critical local transportation projects in Southeast Los Angeles. I look forward to local residents being able to use the new and improved roads in our region,” concluded Sánchez.
07.28.2005	Washington, D.C. - Late last night in Washington, the United States House of Representatives passed the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement with a vote of 217-215. Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) made this statement in response to its passage: “Today is a sad day for America and Central America, as the United States House of Representatives chose to pass the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement. I am disappointed that several Members of Congress succumbed to the lies, deceit, and backdoor deals from the Bush Administration. Now American workers will have to pay the price, despite repeated calls from both Democrats and Republicans to renegotiate this trade agreement. It is Congress’ responsibility to make trade agreements that protect American jobs, strengthen labor protections and protect the environment. CAFTA offers none of these protections. I am appalled that Congress has just given the green light to corporations to outsource American jobs. I support free trade, but there is nothing “free” about this free trade agreement.”
07.28.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- In an effort to make our railways and communities more secure, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez sent a letter (attached) to House conferees involved in final House-Senate negotiations of H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act-Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), asking negotiators to keep two key provisions that would improve the safety of our nation’s railway infrastructure. Congresswoman Sánchez is especially concerned about rail safety due to several major derailments and rail accidents in the Southern California area, most recently last October in North Whittier. The freight train accident occurred in a residential neighborhood, destroying two homes and damaging twenty others. The Congressional letter, also signed by Reps. Napolitano, Roybal-Allard and Watson, coincides with a report released earlier this week from the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) evaluating the train derailment in North Whittier. The report cites the safety record and failure of “joint bars” (which connect large sections of rail) as a main cause of the accident. According to the NTSB report, cracks in the North Whittier joint bar developed over time and could likely have been spotted if inspections had been performed on a regular basis. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which directly oversees rail safety, should implement inspection and testing standard for joint-bars. The FRA has had a task force look at the issue for over a year, but has yet to take meaningful steps towards more thorough inspection. “I strongly urge my colleagues to keep these very important provisions in TEA-LU,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The NTSB findings clearly highlight the importance of frequent inspection of our railways and the proposed provisions would ensure that the FRA institutes meaningful and thorough inspection standards that will prevent more derailments,” added Sánchez. Specifically, the letter submitted by Sánchez and the other three Congresswomen asks conferees to maintain two provisions in the Senate-passed version of TEA-LU: 1) Provision sponsored by Senator Byron Dorgan (ND) requiring more frequent inspection of “joint bars” by the FRA. This provision largely mirrors the safety recommendations that the NTSB issued in its recent report and is a simple but critical step to improving rail safety. 2) Provision sponsored by California Senator Barbara Boxer that will fund a study that directs the Secretary of Transportation to study the impact of grade crossings on accidents and on the ability of emergency responders to perform public safety and security duties. With increased rail traffic in Southern California, the issues of grade crossing safety and delays are gaining increasing importance. *House and Senate Conferees met for the first time yesterday. They must reconcile the differences between the House and Senate-passed versions of TEA-LU before the bill can become.
07.28.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez along with Congresswomen Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard and Diane Watson were successful in urging House conferees involved in the negotiations for the Transportation Equity Act-Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) to keep two key provisions that would improve the safety of our nation’s railways. TEA-LU passed today in the U.S House of Representatives and is will go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Congresswoman Sánchez has been especially concerned about rail safety due to several major derailments and rail accidents in the Southern California area, including last October’s derailment of a Union Pacific fright train in a residential neighborhood of North Whittier that destroyed two homes and damaged twenty others. In June, Reps. Sánchez, Napolitano, Roybal-Allard and Watson sent a joint letter to key House and Senate negotiators on the TEA-LU bill urging that they include two key rail safety provisions. The final legislation, passed tonight in the House includes both provisions. 1) Provision sponsored by Senator Byron Dorgan (ND) requiring more frequent inspection of “joint bars” by the FRA. This provision largely mirrors the safety recommendations that the NTSB issued in its recent report to improve rail safety. 2) Provision sponsored by California Senator Barbara Boxer that will fund a study that directs the Secretary of Transportation to study the impact of grade crossings on accidents. It also examines the ability of emergency responders to perform public safety and security duties. With increased rail traffic in Southern California, the issues of grade crossing safety and delays are gaining increasing importance. “I am very pleased that my colleagues working on the final details of the TEA-LU bill had the good judgment to maintain these important provisions to improve rail safety,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I want to especially thank Sen. Barbara Boxer for her role in keeping those rail safety provisions in the final bill. Safety experts and our experience from the North Whittier derailment have clearly shown us the more frequent inspection of our railways is an important step we must take for the safety of communities living close to rail lines,” added Sánchez.
07.27.2005	Provision Included In Department of Justice Reauthorization Bill Passed House Judiciary Committee Today Washington, D.C. -- Working to help keep our communities safe and secure, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that an important provision from her Bullying and Gang Prevention for School Safety and Crime Reduction Act of 2005 (H.R. 283) was included in the Department of Justice Reauthorization Bill (H.R.3402) which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today. The section of Sánchez’ bill included in H.R.3402 will expand the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant fund to encompass bullying and gang prevention programs. “I am very pleased the DOJ Reauthorization bill was reported out of the House Judiciary Committee today with support from both sides of the aisle. I especially appreciate Chairman Sensenbrenner’s leadership in including this amendment,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “As this bill funds law enforcement and community safety programs through 2009, its provisions will help local law enforcement agencies keep our communities safe. It will help prevent and reduce crime in our communities by providing additional assistance to the victims of crime, improving law enforcement training facilities, and making the DOJ's grants programs more efficient,” added Sánchez. Included in the DOJ bill is Sanchez’ amendment, “The Juvenile Accountability Block Grant” program which is designed to provide grants to states for programs that will promote greater accountability in the juvenile justice system. Currently, these grants are NOT designated for bullying and gang prevention programs. Congresswoman Sanchez' provision amends the law to allow states and localities to use grant funds for bullying and gang prevention programs. “Bullying and gangs are a growing problem in our communities that often leads to a future of criminal activity. The provision I’ve included in the DOJ Reauthorization bill will help local schools gain access to federal funding to implement proven, research-based bullying and gang prevention programs,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “It’s critical that we take active steps to make schools safer and reduce crime. With this federal funding, schools will have the resources to implement bullying and gang prevention programs to help create a safe environment for our children, where they can learn and succeed without fear, hurt or intimidation,” explained Sánchez. Sánchez legislation has the support of Fight Crime: Invest in Kids, a bipartisan, non-profit organization of police chiefs, sheriffs, prosecutors, and crime victims dedicated to preventing crime and violence by finding ways to prevent kids from becoming criminals. The group recently completed a study titled, “Bullying Prevention Is Crime Prevention,” that found children who are the victims of bullying are more likely to commit suicide, and bullies are more likely to become criminals as adults.
07.13.2005	Washington, DC - In an effort to ensure our local law enforcement agencies have adequate resources to fight the war on terror, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) along with fellow Democratic colleague Anthony Weiner (NY-9), attempted to introduce an amendment in the House Judiciary Committee to the USA Patriot Act Reauthorization bill today. The amendment would have increased funding for local law enforcement programs such as COPS. The COPS program was created in the 1990’s under the Clinton Administration with the goal of putting 100,000 new police officers on the streets of America’s communities. Congresswoman Sanchez and Congressman Weiner believe that their amendment was critical to the USA Patriot Act, but House Judiciary Republicans ruled against the amendment. “Our first line of defense against terrorists and other violent crimes are our local law enforcement agencies. It is a terrible day when Judiciary Republicans won’t support our local law enforcement officers in fighting the war against terror,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The COPS program has been cited as a key reason for the decrease in violent crime in America, and continues to help fight crime and terrorism in our nation’s communities. The Sánchez-Weiner amendment recognizes the necessity to adequately fund and equip local agencies and first responders to ensure the safety of our homeland. “Police officers are in the trenches everyday in the war on terror,” continued Sánchez. “Making sure that they have the technology and the resources they need on the ground, especially in target areas like Los Angeles and New York, is key to ensure they can protect our homeland,” concluded Sánchez. This amendment to the Patriot Act would have developed new technologies to assist state and local law enforcement agencies to help them combat crime and terrorism more effectively. It would have also provided the necessary training for the law enforcement officers to utilize the technology effectively.
07.12.2005	CERRITOS -- Cerritos residents Lauren Poblete, Earth Shah, and Danny Fierro have been selected as summer interns in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Lakewood district office. Lauren, Earth, and Danny are three of six local interns accepted to intern in the district office, and will take part in the 10-week internship program offered to outstanding high school and college students. While most governmental internships are unpaid, the Congresswoman has allotted $2,000 from her office budget for one full-time internship position in effort to promote student involvement in public service. Lauren Poblete, a Cerritos High School graduating senior, was selected for this paid internship position due to her academic excellence and interest in public policy. Lauren will attend UCLA in the fall and is using her internship stipend toward her college tuition. Lauren served as National Honors Society President, and was awarded Most Inspirational Player and MVP of her school Track and Basketball teams. Lauren has also volunteered at St. Maria Goretti Church and at the Los Angeles District Attorney’s office. Earth Shah is currently an Honors student at UC-Riverside double majoring in Political Science and Business Administration. He volunteers with UC-Riverside’s Student Organizing for Advising Peers Program and contributes to the school publication, The Innollect. He held numerous leadership positions at Gahr High School, including National Honor Society Treasurer and Model United Nations Secretary General. Danny Fierro is entering his senior year at Whitney High School and is highly involved in academics and extracurricular activities. He is an ABC Unified Distinguished Honor Program student, a section leader for the WHS marching band and the Director of Cultural Affairs for WHS’ Associated Student Body. His bilingualism in Spanish along with his ingenuity and tireless efforts on casework make Danny a true asset to the Congresswoman’s district team. Cerritos resident Jason Amansec has been selected as one of four Congressional interns to work in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Washington, DC office. Jason is a fourth year student at University of California Irvine and is in Washington this summer for a ten week internship program sponsored through UC-Irvine’s UC in DC program. Jason was selected to intern in Sánchez’ Washington office because of his interest in Political Science and International Relations theory. He may consider running for local political office sometime in the future. During the school year, he works at the UC-Irvine Library and Computer Lab and is an active member of Saint Peter Chanel Catholic Church in Hawaiian Gardens. He is the son of Frank and Delia Amansec. La Mirada resident Anthony Duran has been selected as one of six interns in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Lakewood district office. Anthony is one of six local interns accepted to intern in the district, and will take part in the 10-week internship program offered to outstanding high school and college students. Anthony, a La Mirada High School graduating senior, was selected for this internship position due to his academic excellence and interest in public policy. Anthony served as ASB President, Yearbook Editor-in-Chief, and Youth-in-Government City Manager. He has also volunteered his time raising money for tsunami victims, serving as the Executive Coordinator of the Tsunami Victim Benefit Concert. Anthony’s extensive volunteer work coupled with his student activism on campus makes him an exceptional candidate for the position. Whittier resident Rudy Lobos has been selected as one of six interns in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Lakewood district office. Rudy is one of six local interns accepted to intern in the district, and will take part in the 10-week internship program offered to outstanding high school and college students. Rudy, a recent Cal State Fullerton graduate, was selected for this internship position due to his academic excellence coupled with his identification with the Congresswoman as a strong role model for Latino youth. Rudy serves as an academic tutor at Pioneer High School in Whittier, where he too can hone his skills enriching the lives of young people. Rudy’s parents fled the civil war in El Salvador to come to the United States. His keen interest in public policy along with his bilingualism in Spanish makes Rudy a true asset to the Congresswoman’s district team. Lynwood resident Gloria Hernandez has been selected as an intern in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Lakewood district office. Gloria is one of five local interns accepted to intern in the district, and will take part in the 10-week internship program offered to outstanding high school and college students. Gloria, a Cal State Los Angeles graduate, was selected for this internship position due to her academic excellence and keen interest in public policy. Gloria comes from an immigrant household and closely identifies with the Congresswoman as a strong role model for Latino youth. Gloria is a South Gate High School graduate and is currently earning her MA in Political Science. Her bilingualism in Spanish coupled with her vast scope of politics makes Gloria a true asset to the Congresswoman’s district team. Whittier resident Mike Cahill has been selected as one of four Congressional interns to work in Congresswoman Linda Sánchez’ Washington, DC office for a ten week internship this summer. Mike will be a sophomore at Whittier College majoring in Political Science and graduated from South Pasadena High School. Mike was selected to intern in Sánchez’ Washington office because of his interested in Political Science and politics and his desire to see “how Capitol Hill really works.” “My office could not function without the help of such sharp and eager interns,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am pleased to provide them with the opportunity to see Congress from an insider’s perspective and I hope that their experience in my office will inspire them to pursue careers in public service,” added the Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez’s district office internship program allows selected students to manage independent projects in casework, public relations, grant development, office management, and foreign language translation. The summer program begins in late June and runs through August.
06.30.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- In an effort to strengthen the protections for victims of domestic violence, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) has co-sponsored the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2005 (VAWA). Originally enacted in 1994, VAWA dramatically improved law enforcement’s response to violence against women and increased the services available to victims. In 2000, Congress reauthorized the law adding services for rural, older and immigrant women, as well as women with disabilities. The current VAWA expires in September and Congress must reauthorize it to continue giving protections to victims of domestic violence. “I am very pleased to be an original cosponsor of such a critical piece of legislation. My Democratic colleague, Rep.Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), has offered a proposal that includes several key provisions that the Republican bill has left out,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The Democratic proposal strengthens the current law by adding new protections for victims of domestic violence, who are so often silenced by fear,” added Sanchez. The Lofgren proposal includes additional domestic violence prevention programs; economic security provisions; increased protection of battered immigrant women and children; enhanced protection of victims’ personal information; required advisory of emergency contraception to rape victims; provisions to prevent attacks by phony police and public officials; an act that would combat human trafficking of young girls and women; and creation of a DNA database of violent predators against women and children. “It is imperative that Congress reauthorizes VAWA with the strengthened provisions. Today, one in four women is directly affected by domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. I have seen the human face of domestic violence at women’s shelters in my district and I know our sisters, mothers, and daughters deserve this comprehensive version of VAWA. I look forward to advancing VAWA in the Judiciary Committee,” concluded Sánchez. The VAWA 2005 was introduced today and was referred to the House Judiciary Committee. As a member of House Judiciary, Congresswoman Sánchez will play a key role in reviewing this legislation in committee.
06.23.2005	CALLS ON PRESIDENT TO WITHDRAWAL ADMINISTRATION’S DAMAGING NEW TITLE IX RULES WASHINGTON, DC- In an effort to maintain equity and opportunity for women in athletics, Congresswoman Sánchez made this statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to commemorate the 33rd Anniversary of Title IX: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 33rd anniversary of Title IX. Title IX creates opportunities for female athletes. Since its inception in 1972, female participation in sports has increased 400% at colleges and 800% in high schools. As a young girl, I played on several sports teams. These experiences fostered my love of competition. But they had far greater benefits. Girls who play in sports&amp;are less likely to have unplanned pregnancies, more likely to leave an abusive relationship, and are less likely to suffer from depression. Unfortunately, the Department of Education has created a HUGE Title IX loophole. By bending the Title IX rules, it’s now easier for schools to evade their responsibilities to provide opportunities for female athletes. It is wrong for this Administration to reverse the progress made over the last three decades. Tonight, I will join my colleagues in the Annual Congressional Baseball Game. And when I join the lineup in RFK Stadium, I will be on the line for Title IX. Mr. President, I hope you can join us in supporting Title IX by repealing these new damaging rules instead of slamming the door of opportunity in the face of women. Thank you Mr. Speaker. In addition, Congresswoman Sánchez joined 145 of her Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to the President urging him to withdraw the Department of Education’s recent attempt to undermine the program. On March 17, the Department of Education, without any notice or public input, issued a new Title IX policy under the guise of a “Clarification” that creates a major loophole through which schools can evade their obligation to provide equal opportunity in sports. The policy allows schools to gauge female students’ interest in athletics by doing nothing more than conducting an e-mail survey and to claim in these days of excessive e-mail spam that a failure to respond to the survey shows a lack of interest in playing sports. The so-called “Clarification” eliminates schools’ obligation to look broadly and proactively at whether they are satisfying women’s interests in sports, and will thereby perpetuate the cycle of discrimination in sports to which women have been subjected. This new “Clarification’ violates basic principles of equality and threatens to reverse the enormous progress women and girls have made in sports since the enactment of Title IX in 1972. For the past 33 years, Title IX has ensured that millions of young women have had the opportunity to participate in team sports. Female athletes have worked tirelessly over the years to gain respect and equality and because of their efforts, generations of young women will have an equal opportunity to succeed.
06.21.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - As the President continues his campaign to privatize Social Security, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez hosted an online town hall to answer constituent questions about this critical government program. Congresswoman Sánchez decided to convene an online town hall in an effort to engage more young people around the issue of Social Security and brought together over 75 students from area colleges (Cerritos College, Rio Honda Community College, Long Beach City College, Cal State University-Long Beach, and East Los Angeles Community College-South Gate Campus). Most participant questions raised centered around participant concerns about the President’s privatization proposal. “We had some really great questions,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “The overwhelming response proves that privatization is a real concern for the people of the 39th district, especially young people. I am very pleased to utilize the internet as a tool to engage and communicate directly with my constituents even from 3,000 miles away,” added Sánchez. The Administration has been targeting young people in their Social Security sales pitch and claims that young people can expect to be shortchanged by Social Security as it is today and insists that privatization is the only way to guarantee that they get some benefits. Contrary to that, Social Security will be able to pay 100% of promised benefits for at least the next half century. The only guarantees the Bush privatization plan offers young people are a guarantee their benefits will be cut, the national debt will increase and retirement security will be lost. “As a young person myself, I will continue to fight to strengthen and improve Social Security for America's young workers. We want to ensure that every American working today will get the secure retirement they have earned through a lifetime of hard work. Social Security is the only safe and secure source of retirement income for millions of Americans, and it must be protected.” This was Congresswoman Sánchez’ third forum on Social Security this year. In March, the Congresswoman held two Social Security forums in the 39th District (South Gate and Lakewood) where she was able to directly respond to the Social Security concerns of her constituents. “Young people have the most at stake, because any benefit cut will hit them the hardest,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “Social Security is not just about retirees. It’s about honoring the hard work of everyone who has paid into the system, young and old alike. We have all paid in with an understanding that someday, Social Security will be there for us and I will work to ensure that the government maintains this guarantee,” concluded Sánchez. The text of Congresswoman Sánchez’ e-town hall can be accessed at www.lindasanchez.house.gov/etownhall
06.16.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- Working to protect the safety and security of our children, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that she has secured funding for the South Gate School Resource Officer Program. Sánchez had the project included in the Science, State, Justice and Commerce (SSJC) Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill which was passed in the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 418 to 7. The exact funding level for the program will be determined when the bill proceeds to a final negotiation session between the U.S. House and Senate. “School Resource Officers are specially trained community police officers who work with students and faculty to develop crime prevention strategies, train students in conflict resolution, and provide early intervention to prevent drug and gang problems,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The School Resource Officers Program (SROs) provides uniformed police officers in area high schools to serve as liaisons between the community, youth, and the police department. They have a proven track record of success in other cities near South Gate. With the forces of rapid population growth and expansion of the public school system, gangs are a rising epidemic in the South Gate community, resulting in tension on school campuses and resulting in an increase in violence, crime and other delinquent activity. “I am delighted to have received a commitment for funding this program which will help improve public safety and education in South Gate. Having police officers available as resources in public schools affords our children and our communities an opportunity to avoid trouble before it begins. School Resource Officers provide security, but they also do much more by helping students, teachers and administrators identify risks and prevent dangerous situations,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. In a meeting with Congresswoman Sánchez earlier this year, South Gate City leaders made the SRO program a top priority request for federal assistance. “The School Resource Officer program is vital to our efforts to ensure the safety of our youth in South Gate, who are the future of our community. SRO’s have been shown to be highly effective in positively impacting attendance and creating safer campuses. The city looks forward to working with the school district in this partnership and we are very grateful to Congresswoman Sánchez’ hard work to secure our funding,” said South Gate Mayor Greg Martinez. Congresswoman Sánchez will continue to work hard to see that the maximum funding level possible for the SRO program is maintained as it continues through the appropriations process. “Putting these police officers in the schools will not only keep our kids safe, but also will contribute to a more secure learning environment, which is absolutely essential if we want our students to realize their academic potential,” concluded Sánchez. The requested funds will be used to pay for the salary, equipment and administrative costs for this valuable youth crime prevention program. The SRO program is a partnership between the City of South Gate and the South Gate Police Activity League (PAL).
06.09.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- In an effort to make our railways and communities more secure, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez sent a letter (attached) to House conferees involved in final House-Senate negotiations of H.R. 3, the Transportation Equity Act-Legacy for Users (TEA-LU), asking negotiators to keep two key provisions that would improve the safety of our nation’s railway infrastructure. Congresswoman Sánchez is especially concerned about rail safety due to several major derailments and rail accidents in the Southern California area, most recently last October in North Whittier. The freight train accident occurred in a residential neighborhood, destroying two homes and damaging twenty others. The Congressional letter, also signed by Reps. Napolitano, Roybal-Allard and Watson, coincides with a report released earlier this week from the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) evaluating the train derailment in North Whittier. The report cites the safety record and failure of “joint bars” (which connect large sections of rail) as a main cause of the accident. According to the NTSB report, cracks in the North Whittier joint bar developed over time and could likely have been spotted if inspections had been performed on a regular basis. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which directly oversees rail safety, should implement inspection and testing standard for joint-bars. The FRA has had a task force look at the issue for over a year, but has yet to take meaningful steps towards more thorough inspection. “I strongly urge my colleagues to keep these very important provisions in TEA-LU,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “The NTSB findings clearly highlight the importance of frequent inspection of our railways and the proposed provisions would ensure that the FRA institutes meaningful and thorough inspection standards that will prevent more derailments,” added Sánchez. Specifically, the letter submitted by Sánchez and the other three Congresswomen asks conferees to maintain two provisions in the Senate-passed version of TEA-LU: 1) Provision sponsored by Senator Byron Dorgan (ND) requiring more frequent inspection of “joint bars” by the FRA. This provision largely mirrors the safety recommendations that the NTSB issued in its recent report and is a simple but critical step to improving rail safety. 2) Provision sponsored by California Senator Barbara Boxer that will fund a study that directs the Secretary of Transportation to study the impact of grade crossings on accidents and on the ability of emergency responders to perform public safety and security duties. With increased rail traffic in Southern California, the issues of grade crossing safety and delays are gaining increasing importance. *House and Senate Conferees met for the first time yesterday. They must reconcile the differences between the House and Senate-passed versions of TEA-LU before the bill can become.
06.09.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- Working to protect the safety and security of our children, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today announced that she has secured funding for the South Gate School Resource Officer Program. Sánchez had the project included in the Science, State, Justice and Commerce Fiscal Year 2006 Appropriations bill which was approved by the Appropriations Committee today. The exact funding level for the program will be determined when the bill proceeds to a final negotiation session between the U.S. House and Senate. “School Resource Officers are specially trained community police officers who work with students and faculty to develop crime prevention strategies, train students in conflict resolution, and provide early intervention to prevent drug and gang problems,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The School Resource Officers Program (SROs) provides uniformed police officers in area high schools to serve as liaisons between community youths and the police department. They have a proven track record of success in other cities near South Gate. With the forces of rapid population growth and expansion of the public school system, gangs are a rising epidemic in the South Gate community, resulting in tension on school campuses and resulting in an increase in violence, crime and other delinquent activity. “I am delighted to have received a funding commitment for this program which will help improve public safety and education in South Gate. Having police officers available as resources in public schools affords our children and our communities an opportunity to avoid trouble before it begins. School Resource Officers provide security, but they also do much more by helping students, teachers and administrators identify risks and prevent dangerous situations,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. In a meeting with Congresswoman Sánchez earlier this year, South Gate City leaders made the SRO program a top priority request for federal assistance. “The School Resource Officer program is vital to our efforts to ensure the safety of our youth in South Gate, who are the future of our community. SRO’s have been shown to be highly effective in positively impacting attendance and creating safer campuses. The city looks forward to working with the school district in this partnership and we are very grateful to Congresswoman Sánchez’ hard work to secure our funding,” said South Gate Mayor Greg Martinez. Congresswoman Sánchez will continue to work hard to see that the maximum funding level possible for the SRO program is maintained as it continues through the appropriations process. “Putting these police officers in the schools will not only keep our kids safe, but also will contribute to a more secure learning environment, which is absolutely essential if we want our students to realize their academic potential,” concluded Sánchez. The requested funds will be used to pay for the salary, equipment and administrative costs for this valuable youth crime prevention program. The SRO program is a partnership between the City of South Gate and the South Gate Police Activity League (PAL).
06.07.2005	SANTA MONICA, CA - Yesterday, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-Lakewood) presented a $250,000 check to the Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council to advance a critical study finding innovative and environmentally friendly techniques to more effectively capture stormwater that will minimize pollution on area beaches and maximize its potability. At the check presentation, Congresswoman Sánchez was joined by Congresswoman Diane Watson (D-Los Angeles); Frank Colonna, Long Beach City Councilman and Chairman of the San Gabriel River Watershed Council; and various area water and environmental leaders. “I am very pleased to have been able to secure funding for such an important study that is finding common sense solutions that will make the L.A. region more environmentally friendly in the future,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The federal appropriation of $250,000 will fund the next phase of the “Los Angeles Basin Water Augmentation Study” being performed by the Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers Watershed Council. The study has shown how innovative techniques in building and neighborhood design can capture rain and stormwater runoff, thereby protecting our nearby beaches from pollution carried by stormwater and also increasing our underground supply of local drinking water. The study is seen as playing a key role in helping Southern California become environmentally sustainable for the long term. Congresswoman Sánchez has led a coalition of ten local Members of Congress (including U.S. Representatives Berman, Millender-McDonald, Napolitano, Roybal-Allard, Loretta Sanchez, Schiff, Sherman, Waxman, and Watson) in successfully seeking federal funding for the study, which is designed to benefit the entire Los Angeles and San Gabriel River basins. “This study is a great example of inter-agency and inter-governmental cooperation. Water-related issues are going to be among our biggest priorities in California in the future and I am glad that Congresswoman Sánchez was able to get funding for such a forward thinking initiative,” said Rebecca Drayse, Project Manager for TreePeople. The innovative and often simple designs being studied include those for parking lots, street landscaping, and residential yards to allow rain and stormwater runoff to naturally percolate into local aquifers instead of flowing into storm drains and on to the ocean.
06.06.2005	WHITTIER, CA - In an effort to recognize and encourage the artistic abilities and creative talent of high school students in the 39th Congressional District, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) hosted the Third Annual 39th Congressional District Art Competition Reception and Award Ceremony on Sunday. The event recognized the hard work and talent of 110 young artists that submitted art pieces for the 39th District’s Annual Art Competition. “Art provides our youth with an outstanding way to express themselves,” said Sánchez. “The talent exhibited here today shows the importance of funding for art programs in our schools. Talent like this deserves to be nurtured.” Earlier this year, Congresswoman Sánchez contacted art teachers at high schools throughout the district to invite their students to participate in the competition. This year, Sánchez received a record number of submissions. At the reception on Sunday, all pieces submitted were displayed and the student artists and their families were invited to participate. Sánchez announced the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd place winners and presented them with an engraved plaque with other participants receiving certificates. The overall winners include: 1st Place Overall: Jaymee Ngernwichit, Whitney High School, Cerritos 2nd Place Overall: Minji Woo, La Serna High School, Whittier 3rd Place Overall: Nancy Rivera, Lynwood High School, Lynwood Honorable Mention: Lauren Motus, Whitney High School, Cerritos “I am delighted that so many incredibly talented students participated in the art competition this year. The variety and talent exhibited was very impressive---it made for very difficult judging,” said Sánchez. As the 1st Place Winner overall, Jaymee and her parents will attend the National Congressional Art Competition Reception in Washington, DC to honor all winners from each Congressional District. Her work will be hung alongside the other national winners for one year in the U.S. Capitol. This year, Congresswoman Sánchez was appointed as the national co-chair of the United States Congressional Arts Competition. artcomp_giggles.gif
06.06.2005	ARTESIA, CA - Today, Congresswoman Sánchez inaugurated a new drop off lane at the Artesia Post Office after helping secure $80,000 in federal money for the post office improvements. Joining Congresswoman Sánchez at the ribbon cutting ceremony were Artesia Mayor Larry Nelson and Richard Maher from the United States Postal Service. “It is really amazing how such a small improvement can make a huge difference in the safety and efficiency of the post office for its patrons,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. In May 2003, officials from the City of Artesia expressed their concern regarding the traffic and circulation problems in the Artesia Post Office parking lot. The existing parking lot layout had resulted in congestion, a number of traffic violations, and resident complaints. Working together with the USPS and the City of Artesia, Congresswoman Sánchez was able to help secure a commitment for $80,000 from the Postal Service to create a mail drop off lane to alleviate congestion and increase efficiency. The drop off lane was cut into the sidewalk on Alburtis Street to allow cars to easily gain access to drop off mailboxes from the street without entering the post office parking lot or creating congestion on Alburtis Street. “I am pleased to have helped facilitate a solution to this issue at the Artesia Post Office. I want to thank Artesia Mayor Larry Nelson, the City of Artesia and the U.S. Postal Service for all of their combined efforts to bring this project to fruition,” said Sánchez.
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- In an effort to protect the safety of minors while on the internet, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez last night introduced a resolution (H.R. 296) recognizing the achievements and contributions of TeenAngels and Wired Safety/Wired Kids efforts to address the growing problem of cyber bullying and cyber crime towards children. Congresswoman’s Sanchez’ office and the Paramount Education Partnership are working together to establish a Teen Angels chapter in the district. “Every parent worries about what their kids are seeing and who their kids are talking to on the internet. The work that Teen Angels is doing is very important, innovative and engaging for young people and is catching on like wildfire across the country,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “I am very pleased that we are collaborating with the Paramount Education Partnership to bring a chapter to the district.” WiredKids is a U.S. charity dedicated to protecting all internet users, especially children, from cyber crime and abuse. Parry Aftab, Executive Director of WiredKids founded the TeenAngels network, a diverse group of young people from ages 9-18, who go out into their local communities and schools and teach their peers about internet safety. Young TeenAngels volunteers receive training from cyber-safety experts and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). “Cyber bullying” is defined as the transmission of threats of physical harm, terrorist threats, comments meant to damage the reputation, embarrass, humiliate, insult, spread rumors, defame, or intimidate by one minor to another minor, through websites, instant messaging, camera phones, cell phones, web blogs or other electronic means. “We are delighted to be working with Congresswoman Sánchez to create a new TeenAngels chapter in her district and to be tapping into her expertise in bullying and expanding into the new realm of cyberbullying. We are grateful for the resolution she introduced to recognize the dedication of these young people in this movement. We look forward to our continued work with her as she continues to lead on this issue on Capitol Hill,” said Parry Aftab, Executive Director of WiredKids and founder of TeenAngels. Such bullying has proven to cause psychological harm, negatively impact academic performance, force children to change schools and in some cases has lead to suicide. Studies on cyber bullying have found that up to 80 percent of teens said they have read or spread gossip online and that more than 50 percent of teens said they had seen Websites that made fun of their peers. Currently, there are over 250 TeenAngels worldwide, with chapters in California, New Jersey, New York, Wisconsin, Virginia, Washington, DC, United Kingdom, and Pakistan, keeping themselves, their families, other youths and their communities more aware of the importance of internet safety and the dangers of cyber bullying. Visit their website at www.wiredsafety.org.
05.25.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Advocating for women’s rights, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) today introduced an amendment to H.R. 800, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, to protect the rights of domestic violence victims to sue criminal gun sellers. H.R. 800 will make gun merchants immune from civil liability for the acts of their customers. But federal law makes it a crime for gun merchants to sell to persons with misdemeanor convictions for domestic violence. As it stands now, if H.R. 800 becomes law, gun sellers who break the law and sell guns to persons with domestic violence convictions will be immune from civil liability. “Allowing this to happen would be an absolute travesty. For the thousands of women who are terrorized by abusive men, it is both an insult and a threat to their safety,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The amendment would carve out an exception to H.R. 800’s overall ban on lawsuits against gun sellers. It would allow a person harmed by a gun illegally sold to a person with a domestic violence conviction, to sue the person who made the illegal gun sale. “This amendment makes sense. It strikes a good balance between protecting women from violence and appeasing the supporters of H.R. 800 who believe there are excessive lawsuits against the gun industry,” added Congresswoman Sánchez.
05.24.2005	WASHINGTON, DC - On Sunday, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) addressed the opening session of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) National Policy Conference in Washington, DC. Congresswoman Sánchez spoke to the shared values between the United States and Israel and the importance of supporting and strengthening the relationship between the two. Following are the remarks given at the AIPAC Conference: AS PREPARED FOR DELIVERY During a trip to Sri Lanka soon after the tsunami struck, I toured the region, watching the ravaged landscape roll by from inside a bus. Sitting among other members of congress, I remember feeling a sense of despair for those affected by the devastation. But then something happened. Someone called for the bus to stop, and we turned to see what was going on. There, among a ruined village, waved the Star of David the Israeli flag. Beneath the flag, a group of Israeli aid workers were running a day camp for children orphaned by the tragedy. That day, I watched as the Israelismiles from homebrought light back into the lives of these children, most of whom were Muslim. And I felt sadness turn into hope. During a recent trip to Israel I visited an absorption center for newly arrived Ethiopian immigrants. I saw staff members working patiently and lovingly with their new countrymen to help ease the transition to a new land, a new life. America and Israel share so much. We both celebrate democracy and freedom. We feel an obligation to make the world a better place for all people. As a member of congress I am often confronted with questions of peace and security. I am proud of my participation in the democratic Israel working group. As a coalition of pro-Israel democratic members, we are dedicated to seeking Middle East democracy and fighting for Israel’s security. In congress, our shared commitment is helping to end tyranny and protect Israeli families. I am Congresswomen Linda Sánchez, and I am proud to say that Israel is an American value.
05.19.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Working hard to bring new infrastructure and resources to the city of La Mirada, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez (CA-39) secured $250,000 for the La Mirada Flood Control Project. The funding was secured in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2419) that passed the United States House of Representatives today by a vote of . The earmark will fund a much needed hydrology/hydraulics study to be performed by the Army Corps of Engineers in the city of La Mirada that will lay the groundwork for a flood control system in the near future. “Funding this project/study is a key step in improving La Mirada’s flood control system---not only for the benefit of La Mirada residents, but also for the thousands of residents of other communities living near the city’s creeks, channels and outdated flood control system,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The City’s storm drain system was originally constructed more than fifty years ago. Because of the geological landscape/location of La Mirada, there is a very limited and aged flood control system that has made the area prone to localized flooding and has created the potential for more wide-spread flooding as the system continues to age. The proposed hydrology/hydraulics study was formulated in consultation and support from the local Army Corps of Engineers office in Los Angeles. In addition, the city of La Mirada would fund 50% of the total $500,000 for the study.
05.18.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez delivered a letter to Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Alan Mollohan of the House Science-State-Commerce-Justice Appropriations Subcommittee (SSJC) in support of the Small Business Administration’s Microloan Program. For the past two years, President Bush’s budget has requested zero funding for this vital program. However, Congress has repeatedly ignored the President’s recommendation and funded the program. Congresswoman Sánchez initiated this letter of support to maintain and increase the amount of funding for the Microloan Program. “We know that small businesses are the engines of our local economies and not funding this program would leave a great void in the ability of aspiring entrepreneurs to start up new businesses,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The bipartisan letter was signed by 63 of her House colleagues. The letter asks appropriators to fund the Microloan Program at a level of $20 million for lending capital and $17 million in technical assistance for Fiscal Year 2006. This is an increase from last year’s appropriation of $15 million for lending capital and $14 million on technical assistance. “It is so important that we protect the funding for the Microloan Program. Statistics prove the worth of this program,” added Congresswoman Sánchez. The Microloan provides resources to promising small business entrepreneurs by assisting them in realizing their business goals. The program helps entrepreneurs when they are not served by private sector banks or the SBA’s 7(a) loan program. A typical Microloan borrower often lacks credit experience, collateral, and normal businesses training. The unprecedented 1 percent default rate for Microloan borrowers demonstrates that the technical assistance component is key to ensuring success. Since the program’s inception in 1992, it has made over 21,000 loans for more than $250 million primarily to women and minority entrepreneurs. Last year, the Microloan Program provided over 2,400 entrepreneurs with $23 million in capital and technical assistance nationwide. In California alone, $2.2 million was distributed under the Microloan Program.
05.10.2005	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez joined other women Members of Congress, including House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, in hosting a National Forum on Women and Social Security. “We know that the Republican privatization proposal hurts everyone, but women are particularly at risk,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “We must not mortgage the future of our children and grandchildren by borrowing trillions from foreign countries to pay for private accounts. The President’s plan involves massive cuts in benefits for millions of middle class women and families.” “Social Security is clearly one of the most successful government programs in the history of the United States. This is particularly true for the 24 million women in this country as they rely on Social Security for more of their retirement income than men. Currently, more than 7.5 million women receive Social Security benefits and without them, the poverty rate among women retires would skyrocket to over 50%,” stated Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez also highlighted that Republican cuts could apply to survivor and disability benefits. The forum focused on “Families and Children” and “Women in the Workforce,” and included experts from the National Women’s Law Center, the National Partnership for Women and Families, the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation, Business and Professional Women/USA. Several middle class citizens concerned about the future of Social Security also testified to the Members of Congress about the impact of this proposal. According to Congresswoman Sánchez, Social Security provides retirement and economic security to the more than 24 million women receiving Social Security. Women make up 58 percent of seniors receiving Social Security, and without Social Security, 53 percent of all senior women would be poor. In 2000, Social Security lifted 7 million senior women out of poverty. “The President’s proposal would be the largest single benefit cut in Social Security history, and would hit 70 percent of Americans. Americans have earned their benefits and I will fight to protect them,” Congresswoman Sánchez told the audience of representatives from women’s organizations. Democrats attending the forum reiterated their commitment to protecting the Social Security benefits people have earned, and said they will not support a plan that makes the Social Security problem even worse by draining almost $5 trillion away from the program and adding to the national debt.
05.10.2005	WASHINGTON, DC- Today, as co-chair of the Labor and Working Families Caucus, Congresswoman Linda T. Sánchez joined over 500 workers and labor leaders from across the United States and the Dominican Republic in a rally in to oppose passage of the Central American Free Trade Agreement. CAFTA is the trade agreement being negotiated between the United States and five Central American countries: Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic. Congresswoman Sánchez led the crowd in a chant “SAY NO TO CAFTA!” that resonated throughout the Cannon House Office Building Courtyard. “If you want to protect workers rights, if you want to improve public health, if you want to safeguard our environment, if you want to halt the job loss that gets worse and worse every month, then SAY NO TO CAFTA!” Sánchez rallied. “CAFTA hurts hard-working people both here and in Central America. We need to protect labor rights here in the U.S., but also set the global standard for labor rights,” she added. As a former IBEW worker, Congresswoman Sánchez understands the grave implications that such a trade agreement would have on workers in the United States and the need to create a “global standard for labor rights.” Congresswoman Sánchez called on members of the labor community to remain united and steadfast in fighting CAFTA until it is defeated.
04.21.2005	Washington D.C. - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) will join a Congressional delegation flying to Vatican City tomorrow to attend the installation of Pope Benedict XVI on Sunday. “The Pope serves as a spiritual and moral leader for so many people across the world and in my district. I am thrilled to have the chance to attend and to pay my respects,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Included in the delegation are twenty-one members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Four other Members from California are joining Congresswoman Sánchez: Representatives Grace Napolitano (CA-38), Hilda Solis (CA-32), Diane Watson (CA-33), and Daniel Lungren (CA-3). “I view this as a once in a lifetime opportunity to represent the thousands of Catholics in conveying our best wishes to the Pope as he takes on this enormous responsibility,” continued Sánchez. The trip has especially significant meaning for Congresswoman Sánchez who grew up in a family and community deeply rooted in their Catholic beliefs. “I remember being a little girl and listening to my grandmother talk about what the Catholic Church meant to her. It meant helping the less fortunate, protecting the most vulnerable members of out our society, and creating opportunity for all people to share in the blessings of America. This is what faith still means to me,” concluded Sánchez. More details on the trip and the events of the weekend will be released as they become available.
04.14.2005	Washington D.C. - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) today spoke out on the floor of the United States House of Representatives against the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (S 256). “Contrary to its name, this bill doesn’t protect consumers and it certainly doesn’t help honest, hard-working families with financial problems,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. The Bankruptcy bill will make it much more difficult for American families who are in crisis to get a second chance. It grants much more power to credit card companies to pursue and harass people who are behind on their payments due to personal tragedy or injury. “The vast majority of people who file for bankruptcy 9 out of 10 do so because of they have lost their job, suffered a medical emergency, or there has been a divorce or separation in their family,” continued Sánchez. Despite staunch opposition from many Democrats, the Bankruptcy bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 302-126. Congresswoman Sánchez voted against the bill. President Bush is expected to sign the bill in the near future. “This is a bad bill. It is harmful to struggling families, and goes against the fundamental goal of our bankruptcy laws -- helping people in financial trouble,” concluded Congresswoman Sánchez.
04.13.2005	La Mirada - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) hosted a recognition ceremony Monday to present military service medals to several local veterans. The event took place at the Eternal Flame Memorial located in the La Mirada Civic Center Plaza. “It is a great honor to be involved in helping these brave veterans finally secure the awards that they earned through their dedication and service to our nation,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Four veterans were honored during the event: Robert Sánchez, Army PFC, a Vietnam Veteran and La Mirada resident, was awarded a Purple Heart, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon w/device (1960), Expert Badge with Machine Gun Bar, Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar, and a Marksman Badge with Auto Rifle Badge. Enrique Santana, Army SFC, a Vietnam Veteran and Whittier resident, was awarded a Purple Heart, National Defense Service Medal, Korean Service Medal with 2 bronze service awards, Combat Infantryman Badge, and a United Nations Service Medal. Jesus Santos, Army SSG, a Vietnam Veteran and Whittier resident was awarded a Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with 2 bronze service stars, Expert Badge with Machine Gun Bar, Sharpshooter Badge with Rifle Bar, and Marksman Badge with Auto Rifle Bar. Joe Manriquez, a Vietnam Veteran and Whittier Resident, was awarded a Purple Heart, Bronze Star, Combat Infantryman Badge, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross Unit Citation, Air Medal with “V” Device, and the Army Commendation Medal. “These veterans earned their medals years ago but, for various bureaucratic reasons, did not receive them at the time. It has been my pleasure to assist these veterans in working through the bureaucracy of the Department of Defense to receive the recognition they have earned,” continued Sánchez. Attending the ceremony were La Mirada Mayor Bob Chotiner, Mayor Pro Tem Pete Dames, Councilmember Steve Jones, Councilmember Hal Malkin, Councilmember Susan Tripp, and City Manager Andrea Travis. Also honored in the ceremony was Navy Petty Officer 1st Class, Michael A. Cope, a La Mirada resident, who died in the service of his country last year. He was 32 years old. “I feel truly proud on a day like today to stand next to heroes who were so willing to fight and sacrifice when our country called upon them, and to remember Michael’s dedication and service. Events like this let our veterans and their families know that we will be forever grateful to them,” concluded Congresswoman Sánchez.
03.14.2005	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sáncheznchez (CA-39) spoke on the floor of the United Sates House of Representatives about the national effects of domestic violence. Sánchez focused specifically on the broad reach of domestic violence, its lethal effects, and the need for Congress to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. The text of her speech follows: "I rise today to show my support for victims of domestic violence. I grew up in a large family -- I am the sixth of seven children -- and my family has always supported me. Nothing can replace the strength you draw from those you love and trust. Tragically, it is even more devastating if family members or significant others violate that trust and become abusive. Domestic Violence is an enormous problem in this country - one that deserves immediate attention. According to the American College of Emergency Physicians, Domestic violence is the largest cause of injury to women between the ages of 15 and 44 in the United States -- more than car accidents, muggings, and rapes combined. Each year, between 2 and 4 million women are battered, and 2,000 of those women will die from their injuries. Nearly one third of American women will experience intimate partner violence in their lifetime -- We can no longer afford to ignore this issue. This year is especially important because 2005 marks the 10th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Later this year, VAWA will come up for reauthorization. We have the opportunity to provide greater support for domestic violence. I urge all of my colleagues to do their part to support VAWA, to support the efforts of women's advocates, and to end the cycle of violence. Thank you Mr. Speaker."
03.14.2005	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) spoke last night to a crowd of Cerritos College students during the 19th Annual Cerritos College Women's History Month Celebration. Sánchez was introduced by the President of Cerritos College, Dr. Noelia Vela, and spoke about her role as a woman in U.S. House of Representatives. "As a woman in Congress, I'm often asked what it's like to work in the halls of power of our nation's Capitol. During my first term in Congress, and now beginning my second, I've experienced a lot that showed me how far women have come as leaders and legislators despite the challenges we face," said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. After describing some of the challenges and successes of her career, Congresswoman Sánchez went on to discuss some of the issues that today's young women, like those in her audience, could expect to face. Sanchez also addressed the issue of domestic violence, noting that it was "Stop Violence Against Women Week," and urged young women to support each other. "There is only so much we can do in the government. Most of the strength needs to come from other women in the community. They in turn must draw their inspiration from the strength and experiences of women who are survivors of violence," continued Sánchez. Sánchez did not limit her comments to issues that the young women were affected by now. She asked them to look down the road and educate themselves on Social Security, because current college students would be the generation that had to live with the consequences of bad decisions made today. "The answer is not putting all of our hopes in risky, private accounts that don't guarantee increased rewards. The only things that they guarantee are cuts in benefits and trillions of dollars of additional debt to burden future generations," continued Sánchez. The Congresswoman finished her speech by thanking the young women in the audience for the influence they had on her. When I think of how you will change the world once you put your minds and hearts into it, I am inspired. So I want to say to all of you, "Thank you!" I promise that I will keep working for you and all women in Washington," concluded Sánchez.
03.07.2005	Flexible Grant Program Vital to Community DevelopmentWashington, DC Congresswoman Linda Sanchez (CA-39) testified in front of the United States House of Representatives Committee on the Budget today. Her testimony focused on the cuts to the Community Development Block Grants program laid out in President Bush’s 2006 Budget and their effect on communities in her district. Below is the full text of the testimony. “I would like to thank Chairman Nussle and Ranking Member Spratt for allowing us to speak today. I’m going to talk today about an issue that transcends community and party boundaries the possible gutting of Community Development Block Grants in the President’s 2006 Budget. Community Development Block Grants can be used for a seemingly endless variety of projects aimed at improving the quality of life in needy areas around our country. Let me share with you stories and statistics from cities that will be affected by CDBG cuts. One of the cities that has expressed great concern over the loss of funding is the City of La Mirada. Mayor Susan Tripp took the time to explain to me just how much her city would be injured. The pride of La Mirada is the Community Senior Center, which was completed in 2001. More than $1.8 million of the center’s $3.2 million cost came from Community Development Block Grants. That’s more than half. The Senior Center now serves as a hub where La Mirada’s large elderly population benefits from computer literacy classes, nutrition programs, and health screenings. Without CDBG funding the construction could have been delayed for years. La Mirada also uses CDBG funding to enact a loan program for needy families. The repayment of the principal and the interest is then put back into the loan system. There are more than 1 million dollars circulating in this loan program creating and sustaining opportunity. In the City of Whittier, in my district, CDBG monies are used to fund the Salvation Army, the Interfaith Food Center, the Southeast Area Social Services Funding Authority, and the Social Service Commission Scholarship Program. These programs fund an emergency shelter, food for low income families, services for seniors, and recreational scholarships for needy children. The total cost to do all of this in Whittier with CDBG funds is less than $65,000. I honestly can not imagine a more efficient use of federal money. In the final city I would like to talk about, Long Beach, California, I believe the numbers speak for themselves on what an impact CDBG has for the community. " Long Beach received $10.6 million for Fiscal Year ’04-05. " The money was used to remove 109,000 graffiti tags from more than 34,000 sites. " It was used to improve more than 1,200 housing units. " It was used to provide services for 23,000 homeless persons. " And, I think most impressively, CDBG funds were used to serve 95,031 youth with after school and weekend recreation activities. I hope that I have helped demonstrate to the Committee here today that these funds play an enormous and important role in the day to day survival and success of our cities. I would like to close with a quote from a local official: “A key priority of this Administration is stimulating the domestic economy by creating jobs and expanding home ownership. One of the best tools that mayors of cities across America use to achieve these and other important goals is the Community Development Block Grant program. At a time when city budgets are severely challenged and have significant community and economic development needs, this cut and realignment will have a devastating impact on local governments’ ability to provide resources to those communities and neighborhoods most in need.“ This quote eloquently captures the vital nature of CDBG programs in our cities. Mr. Chairman, this quote did not come from a Democratic Colleague or anyone here in Washington. It is from The Mayor of Long Beach, California, and Vice President of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, Beverly O’Neill a local leader who will feel the effects of these cuts. Mr. Chairman, Community Development Block Grants work and they are efficient. They are supported across the board by local community leaders regardless of party affiliation. I strongly urge that CDBG funding be kept at the current level and that it be kept as a separate and distinct program. I thank the Committee for its time.”
02.02.2005	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) reacts to President Bush’s State of the Union address: “Since he first took office, President Bush has promised to fix America’s broken immigration system. After four years, he is still delivering rhetoric, but we have yet to see the results of his plan,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “Our immigration system is fraught with serious problems. We need comprehensive reform that secures our borders, reunites families, and benefits the American economy and we need it now,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. “My parents came to this country like many hard-working immigrants to make a better life for their children. I ask President Bush to put his words into action by delivering a real proposal to protect our country from terrorism and help immigrants achieve the American Dream,” said Congresswoman Sánchez. Congresswoman Linda Sánchez is the only Latina on the U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee. She sits on the subcommittee on Immigration, Border Control, and Claims.
02.02.2005	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) responds to President Bush’s State of the Union address: “Tonight President Bush outlined his irresponsible plan for Social Security. It puts millions of American working families at risk of being left out in the cold during their golden years. By using private accounts, President Bush is gambling with future generations’ security in order to line the pockets of Wall Street and his wealthiest donors,” said Sánchez. “Social Security is facing a challenge, not a crisis. This is a problem that demands long-term adjustments to fix. The fact that the President is rushing to drastically change the system shows that, when it comes to taking care of our citizens now and in the future, this President is all talk and no substance,” concluded Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez is committed to working with other members of Congress, both Democrat and Republican, in order to make sure Social Security remains functioning well into the next century.
01.13.2005	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA -39) today announced that she will visit the tsunami-ravaged region of Sri Lanka from January 16th 18th. She is traveling as part of an official Congressional delegation to see first hand the damage and work of aid groups like UNFPA, the United Nations Population Fund, and other UN partners. “This tsunami was a terrible natural disaster, and it is important for members of Congress to see first hand what actually needs to be done to help this region. Assessing the damage will give us a better understanding of the specific needs of women, many of whom have instantly become the head of their households,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. In Sri Lanka, Sánchez will travel to Colombo, one of the hardest-hit areas in the region, where she plans to do an in-depth examination of current relief efforts, tour the damage, meet with Sri Lanka officials, and the American Ambassador. She will also visit Galle, a tourist area that was destroyed during the tsunami. The United Nations Foundation (UNFPA), which is sponsoring the trip, will also brief Sánchez on their efforts to help women. UNFPA has been on the front lines supporting women whom, in many ways, have been disproportionably affected by the disaster. For example, women are uniquely vulnerable to poor nutrition, which frequently occurs after natural disasters when food supplies are unavailable or uneven. Vitamin and iron deficiencies, especially anemia, can be fatal for pregnant women and their babies. Women can also suffer a wide range of reproductive health-related vulnerabilities, from not having sanitary supplies to life-threatening complications related to pregnancy. “As a result of this disaster many women will have to take on new responsibilities including becoming the breadwinner for their families, and in many instances being the only caretaker for children, the injured, sick, and elderly. This can cause physical and mental health implications that are often overlooked. It is critical that women receive both financial and physiological support to help them rebuild their lives,” said Sánchez. As one of the hardest hit countries by the recent tsunami, Sri Lanka has suffered the loss of more than 30,000 lives with 860,000 people displaced. To date, the United States has committed $350 million in financial support and approximately 12,600 military personnel to the region. “The U.S. has made a good start by committing resources and personnel, but this needs to be an ongoing commitment. At this point we need to follow through and make sure that the aid is reaching women and families who need it the most,” concluded Sánchez. Congresswoman Sánchez is traveling with a delegation that includes Representatives Joseph Crowley (NY-7), Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18), Steve Israel (NY-2), and Al Green (TX-9). No member of the delegation has previously visited Sri Lanka.
01.05.2005	LAKEWOOD - Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (D-39) yesterday was sworn into the U.S. House of Representatives for the 109th Congress. That event marks the beginning of Sánchez’ second term in office representing the 39th District of California. “It was an honor to serve the people of my district during my first term. I view it as an even greater honor that they would return me to Congress to continue serving them. There’s a lot of work to be done,” said Sánchez. Sánchez is a strong advocate for California’s working families. She is committed to reducing crime, making schools safe, providing quality education and affordable health care, improving our economy by creating new opportunities, and decreasing unemployment. During her first term in office, Sánchez brought over $5 Million in federal funding back to the 39th district. This money provided a new learning center, clean air buses, after-school programs, helped fund the Gang Alternative Program, and provided trained officers to serve in schools. “We’ve all worked so hard together as a community to improve our neighborhoods and our schools over the last two years. But I will not rest on our past accomplishments. I will continue to work in my committees to uphold the ideals I was sent here to represent,” continued Sánchez. Congresswoman Sanchez is the first Latina in history to serve on the Judiciary Committee, which considers civil and criminal judicial reform, civil liberties, constitutional amendments, and immigration and naturalization. Sánchez also serves on the Committee on Government Reform, which has oversight over all federal government activities and serves as the watchdog to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer dollars. Additionally, she sits on the Small Business Committee where she works to support new and small businesses through open access to loans, credit, and capital. As she prepares to jump in feet to her second term, Congresswoman Sánchez is committed to maintaining her extensive district outreach programs. “What I do in Washington is only part of my job. I will still hold community events in California and make myself and my staff available to any constituent who needs my help,” concluded Sánchez. Constituents who need help with federal issues such as Social Security, Medicare and Veterans’ affairs can contact her district office at (562)429-8499.
11.29.2004	Washington, DC - Working to improve air quality and commuting in local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced that she has secured $250,000 for the South Gate Clean Air Bus Program. Sánchez got the project included in the Omnibus Appropriations bill (H.R. 4818), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on November 20th by a vote of 344-to-51, and is expected to be signed into law by President Bush in the near future. “In Southern California, commuting and air pollution affect the daily lives of all residents. This funding will enable South Gate to begin converting its older gasoline-powered city buses to newer, larger clean-burning buses. This is a positive step towards improving local air quality, while at the same time making commuting for residents more comfortable,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. Presently, South Gate leases 11 gasoline-fueled passenger vans, each seating approximately 12 people, for the city’s bus system. The federal funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez will allow the city to purchase two new and larger buses that use alternative clean-air fuels. The new buses will improve transportation services for South Gate residents, improve air quality in the city, and reduce South Gate’s transportation costs by owning, not leasing, the city’s buses “Especially for residents without access to vehicles, our local bus system provides a vital link to businesses and community services throughout the region. These funds will be of great benefit to the regional transportation network and especially to the hard working people of California’s 39th District who use this bus system on a daily basis,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez.
11.29.2004	Washington, DC - Working to improve air quality and commuting in local communities, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39) announced that she has secured $850,000 to purchase new clean-air buses for the city’s popular Cerritos On Wheels (COW) bus system. Sánchez got the project included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations bill (H.R. 4818) which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on November 20th, by a vote of 344-51. This money is in addition to the $300,000 that Sánchez obtained for the program in Fiscal Year 2004 bringing the grand total to $1,150,000. “In Southern California, commuting and air pollution affect the daily lives of all residents. This huge amount of money will enable Cerritos to begin converting its diesel city buses to newer, larger clean-burning buses. This is a positive step towards improving local air quality, while at the same time making commuting for residents more comfortable,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. Presently, Cerritos leases older, diesel buses for the COW system. Sánchez secured $300,000 in federal bus funds in 2004 to enable Cerritos to begin ordering new, larger buses that use clean-burning propane instead of diesel. The first new buses will arrive in January 2005. Cerritos plans to replace its current COW diesel fleet with seven new and larger clean-air buses, each costing about $260,000. “Especially for residents without access to vehicles, our local bus system provides a vital link to businesses and community services throughout the region. These funds will be of great benefit to the regional transportation network and especially to the hard working people of California’s 39th District who use this bus system on a daily basis,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. The new buses will hold 30 people; compared to 18 with the existing diesel buses. The COW system is very popular with students, seniors, and commuters. With this new installment of federal funds secured by Sánchez, Cerritos will be able to reduce the amount of city funds needed for its new fleet. The COW system currently boards 250,000 people annually and has stops not only in Cerritos but also in Artesia, Bellflower, Lakewood, La Palma, and Norwalk. In addition, COW links to regional bus lines, including the MTA, Long Beach, Norwalk and Orange County bus services.
11.29.2004	Washington, DC - Following through on her commitment to improve education and help to keep children out of gangs, Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39), today announced that she has successfully secured $165,000 for Lynwood After-School programs. Sánchez got the project included in the Omnibus Appropriations bill (H.R. 4818), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on November 20th by a vote of 344-to-51, and is expected to be signed into law by President Bush in the near future. “More and more children are getting involved in gang activity, being left at home alone, or are hanging out with friends with nothing to do after school. Early intervention is key to providing children with options and a more positive outlook to their future,” said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. “We need to give our young people hope, and after-school programs are vital to providing many at-risk kids with safe and supportive learning environments.” The federal funds secured by Congresswoman Sánchez will help pay for staff instructional supplies, and computers for 8 after-school sites. The money will also enable Lynwood Library to enhance homework assistance program for middle and high school students. “After-school programs are a wise investment with huge benefits and rewards down the road. They help our children to learn, which increases high school graduation rates,” Sánchez said. “They help our children to stay out of gangs, which lowers the crime rate. And after-school programs keep our kids safe and off the street, so they are at less risk of getting hurt, abused or exploited.” A recent report released by the After-school Alliance found that 14.3 million kindergarten through 12th graders nationwide care for themselves after the school day ends. In California, 22 percent of children in that age range take care of themselves. The parents of more than 15 million children nationwide say their children would participate in an after-school program if one were available. “I could not be more pleased that I was able to obtain critical funding at a time when the Bush Administration is seeking to reduce funding for after-school programs overall. Now is the time to step up our efforts to reduce crime and improve education for our young people. After-school programs target the increasing number of students left alone at the end of the school day. Keeping these children busy and learning is ten times better than having them out on the streets without supervision,” concluded Sánchez. The City of Lynwood is collaborating with the Lynwood Unified School District (LUSD), Lynwood Chamber of Commerce, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, and the Mary Lee Geter Educational Foundation on this project.
