02.26.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Enthusiastically Supports Lands Package to Protect Wisconsin’s Outdoors for Generations to Come La Crosse – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a sweeping package of bills aimed at protecting and securing public lands for generations to come. The Natural Resources Management Act includes legislation authored by U.S. Rep Ron Kind, and the reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which provides funding to protect many outdoor recreational areas throughout Wisconsin, including the Ice Age National Scenic Trail and the Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife Refuge in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. Rep. Ron Kind enthusiastically supported the bill. His statement is below: “Outdoor recreation is an important part of the Wisconsin way of life. That’s why I’m fighting to ensure we have the resources and tools we need to protect our land and pass on our traditions to the next generation. Today, we passed sweeping reforms that will permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund, designate over 1 million acres of wilderness across the country, and protect over 1 million acres of land from destructive practices. Together, we can work to ensure our kids and grandkids can enjoy all that Wisconsin has to offer for years to come.” -30-
02.26.2019	Reps. Ron Kind and Mike Gallagher Introduce Bill to Expand Medical Residencies in Wisconsin WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Mike Gallagher (R-WI) introduced the bipartisan Advancing Medical Resident Training in Community Hospitals Act, a bill that would amend an outdated Medicare rule limiting the funding under the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program for medical residencies in the state of Wisconsin, expanding opportunity for residency training in community and rural hospitals. According to one study, 50% of medical residents stay in-state to work after completion of their residency program. Wisconsin is home to over 150 hospitals, and would benefit by increasing the number of residencies across the state, ensuring rural communities have access to doctors and medical professionals. “As I travel across western and central Wisconsin, I often hear about the challenges rural hospitals face recruiting and retaining high quality doctors. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill, which will help provide more opportunity for medical residencies here in our state, and ensure our rural communities have the medical professionals they need to stay healthy and strong,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This bill is aimed at addressing something we’ve known for a long time – that rural areas like Northeast Wisconsin need more doctors. By offering additional medical resident opportunities, more doctors will continue to work locally upon completion of their training.” Rep. Mike Gallagher said. “When we allow our community hospitals to better train and retain the next generation of physicians, we help strengthen our healthcare and our community." The Advancing Medical Resident Training in Community Hospitals Act is co-sponsored by the entire bipartisan Wisconsin delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives, and has the backing of several Wisconsin healthcare organizations, including the Wisconsin Hospital Association, the Wisconsin Rural Health Cooperative, and the Medical College of Wisconsin. “WHA continues to champion efforts to fill Wisconsin’s workforce shortage, with targeted policies at the state level that address the failure of Washington to act on this issue at the federal level. We know that 86% of Wisconsin students who attend a medical school and residency in Wisconsin will stay and practice in Wisconsin, making local residency programs a key tool in attracting talent to Wisconsin hospitals. I want to thank Representatives Kind and Gallagher for leading on this effort, and look forward to the new Congress taking up this technical fix, as well as more expansive efforts to modernize the federal GME program,” said Eric Borgerding, President and CEO of the Wisconsin Hospital Association. “RWHC very much appreciates Representatives Kind and Gallagher for continuing to lead on this effort, and we hope the new Congress will take up this technical fix. Graduate Medical Education needs to be forward looking, not hampered by well-intentioned efforts of the past. To train the next generation of physicians we need as much capacity as possible,” said Tim Size, Executive Director of the Rural Wisconsin Health Cooperative. “Medical College of Wisconsin-Green Bay will graduate our second class of medical students this summer. Building medical residency capacity in northeast Wisconsin is critical to retaining Wisconsin’s best and brightest in the very areas of the state they grew up, were educated, and ultimately wish to serve. Medical College of Wisconsin deeply appreciates Representative Gallagher’s leadership to address unnecessary barriers to establishing residency programs for our graduates at MCW-Green Bay and a small number of similar locations throughout the nation. MCW respectfully requests Congress to address this nearly thirty-year old, outdated law, which has created insurmountable barriers to addressing the health needs of Wisconsin,” said John R. Raymond, Sr., MD, President and CEO of the Medical College of Wisconsin. Read H.R. 1358, the Advancing Medical Resident Training in Community Hospitals Act here. -30-
02.15.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Votes to Keep the Government Open La Crosse – Today, the United States Congress passed the final bipartisan appropriation package for the fiscal year, narrowly avoiding the second government shutdown of 2019. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “While I am encouraged that Congress has worked together to keep the lights on and avoid another government shutdown, I am disappointed that we didn’t take this opportunity to pass comprehensive immigration reform. During the last shutdown, I unveiled a plan that would keep the government open and fix our broken immigration system. Unfortunately, Congress continues to keep kicking the can down the road and not solve these issues that need to be fixed.” -30-
02.13.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Bill to Grow Craft Breweries and Create JobsWisconsin is home to over 160 craft breweries La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act, which will grow America’s craft breweries by reducing the tax burden and restrictive regulations for brewers, cider-makers, distillers, and vintners. The bill was introduced with Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA). “Here in Wisconsin, our craft brewers produce over one million barrels of beer a year. Not only are our breweries a source of pride and a large part of our state’s culture, but they also support our local economies and create jobs,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill, which will help grow our craft breweries, open new markets, and create good-paying, meaningful jobs here in Wisconsin.” In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District, the beer industry alone contributes over $1 billion to the state economy, and provides over 8,000 jobs. It is estimated that the total economic impact of craft breweries in Wisconsin tops $2 billion annually. “The craft beer industry is a fixture of the Wisconsin way of life, but the regulations and taxes on our breweries can hurt the success of our businesses. We here at Central Waters are happy to see this important bill is being introduced again, as the money saved from the 2017 bill gave us the opportunity to create a new job within the company. We thank Ron Kind for his work in supporting local breweries, and look forward to this bill helping our industry for years to come,” said Anello Mollica, co-owner of Central Waters Brewing Company in Amherst, WI. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act reduces excise taxes, compliance burdens, and regulations for the 5,300 breweries, 8,000 wineries, and 800 distilleries across the country. Lower rates for brewers and craft beverage manufacturers were initially passed on a temporary basis. If the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act is not passed, taxes will return to those higher levels, decreasing their competitiveness and raising costs for consumers. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Roy Blunt (R-MO). This legislation is comprehensive and supported by the entire craft beverage industry. Read more here. -30-
02.12.2019	Representatives for Rep. Ron Kind to Hold Open Office Hours in All 18 Counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at Open Office Hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District from Monday, February 25 – March 1, 2019. “Open Office Hours are a great opportunity to meet with my talented staff of caseworkers and get the assistance you may need in cutting through government red tape,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I hope every Wisconsinite is able to stop by and hear about what my office can do for them.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist Wisconsinites having issues dealing with the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. Representatives from his office are also available to meet by scheduled appointment in either of his La Crosse or Eau Claire offices. More information can also be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Rep. Ron Kind’s staff will be available during the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, February 25 2019 Cashton 9:30-10:30 AM Cashton Village Hall 811 Main St, Cashton, WI 54619 Ontario 11:00AM -12:00 PM Ontario Village Hall 205 State Street Ontario WI 54651 Hillsboro 1:30-2:30 PM Hillsboro City Hall 123 Mechanic Street Hillsboro, WI 54634 Prescott 10:30 - 11:30 AM Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 54021 Pepin 1:00 - 2:00 PM Pepin Municipal Center – Community RooM 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 Stevens Point 9:00 AM - 10:00 AM Emy J's Coffee House 1009 First Street Stevens Point, WI 54481 Wisconsin Rapids 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM McMillan Memorial Library 490 East Grand Ave. Wisconsin Rapids WI 54494 Tuesday, February 26, 2019 Black River Falls 10:30 - 11:30 AM Jackson County Court House – Explorer Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 Whitehall 1:00 - 2:00 PM Trempealeau County Office Building Packer Room – Lower Level 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI 54773 Adams 9:00 - 10:00 AM Adams Community Center 569 Cedar Street Adams, WI 53910 Mauston 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Juneau Co Hatch Public Library 111 West State Street Mauston, WI 53948 Onalaska 10:00 - 11:00 AM Onalaska City Hall 415 Main Street Onalaska, WI 54650 Wednesday, February 27, 2019 Gays Mills 10:00 - 11:00 AM Village of Gays Mills 16381 State Highway 131 Gays Mills WI 5463 Prairie du Chien 12:00 - 1:00 PM Prairie du Chien Memorial Library 125 South Wacouta Avenue Prairie du Chien, WI 53821 Fennimore 2:00 - 3:00 PM City of Fennimore 860 Lincoln Ave Fennimore, WI 53809 Cuba City 4:00 - 5:00 PM City Hall 108 North Main Street Cuba City, WI 53807 Alma 10:00 - 11:00 AM Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 Wheeler 2:00 - 3:00 PM Wheeler Village Hall 105 W. Tower Road Wheeler, WI 54772 Tomah 9:00 - 10:00 AM City Council Chambers 819 Superior Ave Tomah, WI 54660 Sparta 10:30 - 11:30 AM Sparta Free Library 124 W Main Street Sparta, WI 54656 Thursday, February 28, 2019 Coon Valley 9:00 - 10:00 AM Village Hall 205 Anderson Street CoonValley, WI 54623 La Farge 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Village of La Farge 105 W Main Street La Farge WI 54639 Viola 12:30 - 1:30 PM Village of Viola Boardroom 106 Wisconsin Street Viola, WI 54664 Richland Center 2:30 - 3:30 PM Brewer Public Library 325 N Central Ave Richland Center, WI 53581 Friday, March 1, 2019 Augusta 9:00 - 10:00 AM Augusta City Hall – Council Chambers 145 W. Lincoln Street Augusta, WI 54722 Chippewa Falls 12:00 - 1:00 PM Chippewa Falls Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 54729 -30-
02.06.2019	Reps. Kind, Sewell, Walorski, and LaHood Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral Trade Security Act Aimed at Reforming National Security Tariffs Bill will give power to Department of Defense over Department of Commerce when determining national security threat of Section 232 tariffs, and increase Congressional oversight Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Jackie Walorski (R-IN), and Darin LaHood (R-IL) introduced the Trade Security Act, a bill that would reassert Congressional authority over trade and tariff policy by reforming Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. The bill would also redesignate national security threat assessments (in regards to Section 232 tariffs) to the Department of Defense. Senators Rob Portman (R-OH), Doug Jones (D-AL), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Deb Fischer (R-NE) and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) introduced the Senate companion version of the bill today. “This Administration’s go-it-alone approach of resolving our trade imbalances has sparked a trade war that is hurting Wisconsin farmers, workers, and families. The National Security tariff process is being misused, at the cost of our rural and local economies. It is long-past time for Congress to reassert its constitutionally-granted power in our Nation’s trade policy and protect our export power,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Congress must reassert its trade authority and take steps to protect our manufacturers and farmers from the Trump administration’s reckless and isolationist trade policy. Alabama – where auto manufacturers like Hyundai and Mercedes employ nearly 40,000 hardworking men and women – is proof the Trump administration’s policies are misguided. The auto industry strengthens America; it doesn’t threaten it,” said Rep. Terri Sewell. “The president is right to seek a level playing field for American businesses and workers, but the best way to do that is with a scalpel, not an axe. Overly broad tariffs continue to harm manufacturers in my district and threaten our nation’s economic momentum, and it’s clear the national security tariff process is flawed. This bipartisan bill would restore fairness, transparency, and accountability to the Section 232 process, ensure these tariffs are only used when necessary to protect our national security, and give the American people a voice by strengthening congressional oversight,” said Rep. Jackie Walorski. “Agriculture is the top industry in the state of Illinois and I have seen firsthand the positive effect that free trade has had on our farming communities and agribusiness. Our agriculture producers and manufacturers need markets and customers to remain competitive in the global economy. While I appreciate the Administration’s efforts to go after bad actors, implementation of Section 232 tariffs has resulted in increased costs for consumers and retaliatory trade actions that have hindered the ability of producers in my district to sell their products and have access to open markets. I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion to ensure Congress is properly consulted on trade actions of critical importance to our farmers and manufacturers in central and west-central Illinois,” said Rep. Darin LaHood. A copy of the bill can be found here. NOTE: The Trade Security Act reforms the Section 232 statute to ensure that (1) any Section 232 actions are based on a national security determination by the Department of Defense; and (2) Congress has a larger role to play in 232 actions. Specifically, this bill will: Bifurcate the existing Section 232 process into an investigation phase, led by the Department of Defense, and a remedy phase, led by the Department of Commerce. Splitting these responsibilities, while guaranteeing consultation between the two departments at all stages of the process, plays to each department’s strengths to ensure that the statute is used for genuine national security purposes. Require the Department of Defense – instead of the Department of Commerce – to justify the national security basis for new tariffs under Section 232 and make the determination about the national security threat posed by imports of certain products. If a threat is found, the Department of Defense would send its report to the president. In the event that the president desires to take action based on the finding of a national security threat, the president would then direct the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the U.S. Trade Representative, to develop recommendations for how to respond to the threat. After receiving the recommendations of the Secretary of Commerce, the president would decide whether to take action. Increase the role of Congress in the Section 232 process by expanding the process whereby Congress can disapprove of a Section 232 action by passing a joint resolution of disapproval. Currently, Section 232 contains a disapproval resolution process limited only to the disapproval of actions on oil imports, which was inserted into Section 232 in 1980 by Congress in response to concerns about the misuse of the statute. This bill would expand the use of that disapproval resolution process to all types of products. The reformed disapproval process will only apply to future Section 232 actions. Require consultation with Congress throughout the Section 232 process. -30-
02.06.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Increase Access to Retirement Savings La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act, a bill that will increase access to retirement savings through employer-provided retirement plans. The bill includes provisions to reduce costs for workers employed by small businesses by adding flexibility to the multiple employer plans, as well as steps to cut costs of pensions for rural electric cooperatives. The Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act was introduced with Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA). According to the Economic Policy Institute, 55% of Americans have no meaningful retirement savings. Earlier today, Rep. Kind, a senior Member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, spoke in support of the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act (commonly referred to as RESA) in the Ways and Means full committee hearing on Improving Retirement Security for America’s Workers. A clip from the Ways and Means full committee hearing, and a statement from Rep. Kind on the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act can be found below: “As a nation, we have a problem when it comes to retirement savings. We need to take commonsense steps to ensure our businesses are offering their employees flexible retirement plans that set our workers up for success in their golden years,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to introduce the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act, and know this bipartisan bill will help Wisconsinites grow savings accounts and help us avoid a retirement savings shortfall in the future.” Text of the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act can be found here. A digital version of this release can be found here. -30-
02.05.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Responds to the State of the Union Washington, D.C. – Tonight, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “We can all agree: America needs unity. We don’t need a Republican or Democratic agenda – we need an American agenda. I was encouraged to hear bipartisan proposals in tonight’s State of the Union, including a commitment to lowering drug prices, rebuilding our failing infrastructure, and investing in cancer research. I stand ready to work with all of my colleagues to find common ground, and will fight to break down the hyper-partisanship in Congress to make life better for Wisconsinites. There is far more that brings us together than divides us.” -30-
02.05.2019	Rep. Ron Kind Invites Ramon Knudtson, President of the Wisconsin Rural Water Association, to State of the Union Address La Crosse – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that he will bring Ramon Knudtson, President of the Wisconsin Rural Water Association, to the State of the Union address tonight. Mr. Knudtson will be in Washington, D.C. advocating for clean water in rural communities. Ramon lives in Melrose, and serves as the Director of Public Works for the Village of Melrose. He has also volunteered with the Melrose Fire Department for the last 38 years. “I look forward to Ramon Knudtson joining me for the State of the Union address. Ramon has dedicated his life to making western and central Wisconsin stronger through his work with the Village of Melrose, the Wisconsin Rural Water Association, and the Melrose Fire Department,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Wisconsinites like Ramon are the heart of our rural communities. It is an honor to invite him as a tribute to our first responders and volunteers who work tirelessly to lift our communities higher and move us forward.” “I’m excited to be in Washington fighting for Wisconsin’s Rural Water Association and the water industry, and look forward to attending the State of the Union with Congressman Kind,” said Ramon Knudtson. “Clean water is something we take for granted, but many communities across our state don’t have reliable water sources. With partnerships between advocacy associations and the government, we can work together to help everyone get this essential need.” Rep. Ron Kind has been a longtime advocate for clean, accessible water. Recently, he released his priorities for the 116th Congress, including rebuilding Wisconsin’s failing river and water infrastructure. -30-
01.31.2019	Kind, Gallagher, LaHood & Panetta Introduce Tariff LegislationBill Seeks to Reassert Congressional Authority on Tariffs Washington, D.C. – Today Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Mike Gallagher (R-WI), Darin LaHood (R-IL), and Jimmy Panetta (D-CA) introduced the Bicameral Congressional Trade Authority Act of 2019, legislation to require the president to submit to Congress any proposal to adjust imports in the interest of national security under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. A companion piece of legislation was also introduced in the Senate by Senators Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Mark Warner (D-VA). Under the new bill, Members of Congress have a 60-day period following submission to review the president’s proposal. A joint resolution to approve the proposal would qualify for expedited consideration in both chambers. The requirement would apply to all future Section 232 actions, in addition to those taken within the last four years. The bill would restore the national security intent behind Section 232 by transferring national security investigatory authority from the Department of Commerce to the Department of the Defense. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI): “This administration’s misguided trade policies are threatening American standing abroad and are hurting the success of Wisconsin’s farmers, workers and families. It is long-past time for Congress to stand up and fight for our rural economies by taking back the trade authorities that clearly belong to the Legislative branch – as explicitly stated in the Constitution. This trade war needs to end, and that will only happen when Congress begins reasserting itself on this critical issue which continues to harm Wisconsinites.” Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI): “When it comes to trade, Congress has consistently surrendered it Constitutional authorities to the executive branch. This bill reverses that trend, allowing for trade interventions when our national security is at stake and giving the Defense Department a greater role in that process. Our bill also safeguards the public from executive overreach and from protectionist policies that hurt Wisconsin families, manufacturers and farmers.” Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL): “Agriculture is the top industry in the state of Illinois and I have seen firsthand the positive effect that free trade has had on our farming communities and agribusiness. Our agriculture producers and manufacturers need markets and customers to remain competitive in the global economy. While I appreciate the Administration’s efforts to go after bad trade actors, implementation of Section 232 tariffs has resulted in increased costs for consumers and retaliatory trade actions that have hindered the ability of producers in the Midwest to sell their products and have access to open markets. Trade actions with sweeping repercussions, like the implementation of Section 232 tariffs, should not lie exclusively within the authority of the executive branch. Congress has a constitutional role in this process and that is why I am joining this bipartisan group of lawmakers to introduce the Bicameral Congressional Trade Authority Act. I look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle to ensure Congress is properly consulted on trade actions of critical importance to our farmers and manufacturers in central and west-central Illinois.” Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA): “Many of our nation’s industries, including the $5 billion agriculture sector on the Central Coast of California, benefit greatly from fair and reliable international markets. Unfortunately, those markets and industries are experiencing a great amount of unpredictability and uncertainty due to this administration’s unilateral imposition of tariffs under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act based on alleged threats to our national security. The bipartisan Bicameral Congressional Trade Authority Act seeks to put guardrails on the administration’s broad authority by requiring it to provide evidence of such national security threats and subsequent Congressional approval for Section 232 tariffs. As a separate but equal branch of government, it is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that these tariffs are legitimate and supportive of our nation’s security and economic interests.” The legislation is endorsed by 20+ national groups, including: U.S. Chamber of Commerce Coalition of American Metal Manufacturers and Users National Confectioners Association National Marine Manufacturers Association National Tooling and Machining Association North American Association of Food Equipment Manufacturers Precision Machined Products Association National Taxpayers Union Precious Metals Association of North America Specialty Equipment Market Association Beer Institute ###
01.29.2019	VIDEO RELEASE: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Fights to Protect Wisconsinites with Pre-Existing Conditions La Crosse – Today, the United States House Committee on Ways and Means held the full committee’s first hearing in the 116th Congress on Protecting Americans with Pre-Existing Conditions. “No Wisconsinite should be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition, yet many live in fear that these protections will fall victim to political attacks,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m so happy to see this newfound, bipartisan support for the need to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions, and will continue to fight for this fundamental priority within our healthcare system.” Video footage of U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s remarks can be found here. -30-
01.25.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on the End of the Partial Government Shutdown La Crosse – Today, the president announced that a compromise to reopen the government has been met. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “Reopening the government is the right first step to moving forward from this embarrassing shutdown, but this short-term compromise bill cannot lead to another shutdown. The federal government and its workers should never be used by anyone as hostages for a policy goal. Now it’s time to get in the same room and work together to find commonsense, bipartisan solutions that effectively fix our broken immigration system.” -30-
01.22.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Unveils Plan to Reopen the Government La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled his plan to end the government shutdown. The plan includes several steps to strengthen border security, and create a pathway to legal citizenship for immigrants. The plan’s first priority is reopening the federal government, which has been partially closed since December 22, 2018. The plan consists of several components: Reopen the government Create a Path to Citizenship Repair and Construction, and Patrol the Border Secure our Border with Modern Technology Improve Internal Immigration and Visa Enforcement Enhance Drug Interdiction Measures “This shutdown is hurting Wisconsin farmers, workers and families. We need to reopen the government, and get both sides in the same room so we can have a meaningful discussion about how to move forward,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “There is no question that our immigration system is broken and badly in need of repair. Instead of refusing to work together, I’m proposing a compromise: commonsense solutions to the problems that we face, and at no cost to Wisconsinites. It’s time we create a pathway to citizenship that funds border modernization and stops the inflow of drugs into our country, while promoting the legal immigration that Wisconsin’s farmers, businesses and communities need.” Unlike the president’s request for a $5.7 Billion border wall funded by Wisconsin taxpayer dollars, Rep. Kind’s plan would raise $24 Billion for border security by fining immigrants living in America without proper documentation or with expired visas. It would also create a path to citizenship for the estimated 12 million immigrants living in America illegally, in-turn growing the labor force and creating a sustainable new source of tax revenue. His plan would also focus on working with local law enforcement on the border to repair and construct infrastructure in the most effective manner. This includes securing our border with modern, 21st-century technology, like drones, vehicle screening, and ground detection systems. Local law enforcement and federal government agencies would also work collaboratively to enhance drug interdiction measures at the border and in all ports of entry to the United States. Rep. Kind’s office is open and ready to help Wisconsin workers, farmers and families impacted by the federal government shutdown. Constituents can reach the office by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040, or by visiting Rep. Kind’s website: kind.house.gov. Read more about the plan here. -30-
01.16.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Appointed to Trade and Health Subcommittees on Ways and Means La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind was appointed to the Trade and Health Subcommittees on the House Committee on Ways and Means. A statement from Rep. Ron Kind is below: “Wisconsin’s family farmers are bearing the brunt of the President’s trade war, families are out of work, and healthcare is too expensive or inaccessible. Now, more than ever, it is important that we have leaders willing to work together to make our rural economy stronger,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I look forward to serving on the Trade and Health Subcommittees, and am excited to get to work on behalf of all Wisconsinites.” The Ways and Means Committee is the most powerful - and the oldest - committee in the House of Representatives. It has jurisdiction over tax measures, the management of public debt, trade and tariff laws, Social Security, Medicare, and many other economic growth measures. -30-
01.14.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Criticizes USDA for Using Bailout Funds to Buy Pork from Brazil Kind also called on USDA to provide a comprehensive list of all foreign-owned companies receiving money from the bailout program La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind criticized Sonny Perdue, Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for using taxpayer dollars to buy $5 million in pork products from a Brazilian-owned company. The pork was purchased using funds dedicated to the farm bailout program, which was created to help American farmers hurt by the President’s trade war. Rep. Kind also called on Secretary Perdue to provide a comprehensive list of all foreign-owned companies that have received money from the bailout program, and to take action to ensure these programs are targeted to Wisconsin’s family farms. “By sending a $5 million check to Brazilian pork producers, the USDA is rubbing salt in the wound for the thousands of Wisconsin family farmers caught up in the President’s trade war,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling on Secretary Perdue to immediately stop sending Wisconsinites’ money to Brazil, and provide a full list of any foreign-owned companies getting the assistance American farmers so badly need.” In November of 2018, the USDA awarded Smithfield Foods, a Chinese-owned company, $240,000 in payments from funds intended to be used for the trade war bailout program. Smithfield Foods later rescinded the bid after public backlash. The ongoing partial government shutdown has stopped the distribution of bailout funds to Wisconsin farmers. Read the letter here. -30-
01.10.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Votes to Protect Wisconsinites with Pre-Existing Conditions and Defend Healthcare Resolution will strengthen Congress’s hand to intervene against Texas v. U.S., which aims to strike down the Affordable Care Act La Crosse – This week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted to protect Wisconsinites’ healthcare by passing a resolution that strengthens Congress’s hand to intervene in Texas v. U.S., a lawsuit previously led by Wisconsin’s defeated Attorney General Brad Schimel and Governor Scott Walker. If successful, the lawsuit would strike down the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and it’s protections over 2.4 million Wisconsinites living with pre-existing conditions. “One of my biggest priorities is lowering the cost of healthcare for Wisconsinites and ensuring access to high quality care for those who need it most,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to vote to protect Wisconsinites with pre-existing conditions, and demand an end to these nonstop partisan attacks on the health and wellbeing of Wisconsin families.” Over half of all Wisconsinites live with a pre-existing condition and could be denied coverage if insurance companies are allowed to discriminate based on pre-existing conditions. According to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, nearly 207,000 Wisconsinites purchased their health care on the ACA health insurance exchange for 2019. Wisconsin health care providers and insurers have expressed significant concern with the Texas v. U.S. lawsuit and the harm it could cause health care insurance markets and individuals throughout the state. In September of 2018, Rep. Kind called on former Attorney General Brad Schimel and former Governor Scott Walker to immediately withdraw from Texas v. U.S. (previously listed as Texas v. Azar). Recently sworn-in Governor of Wisconsin, Tony Evers, and Attorney General Josh Kaul, are actively working to mitigate the damage done by the previous administration, and protect the healthcare of Wisconsinites. -30-
01.09.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Anti-Corruption, Election Reform BillH.R. 1, the For the People Act, will put Wisconsinites before Washington powerful special interests La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored H.R. 1, the For the People Act, a broad package of pro-democracy and anti-corruption reforms that will hold Washington responsible by taking big money out of politics, supporting voting rights, and bolstering ethics enforcement for employees across the federal government. “I am proud to cosponsor a bill that puts the power where it belongs: back in the hands of Wisconsinites,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The For the People Act is a sweeping government reform package that will end Washington’s culture of corruption and hold our elected officials to a higher ethical standard.” H.R. 1 makes critical reforms across three key areas: Voting Rights: H.R. 1 will create automatic voter registration across the country, expand early voting and voting by mail, restore the Voting Rights Act, prohibit voter roll purges, and end partisan gerrymandering. It will also enhance federal support for voting system security and modernization to avoid foreign election interference. Campaign Finance: H.R. 1 will require any organization involved in political activity to disclose large donors, create an individual multiple matching system for small donations so Wisconsinites can exercise their due influence against dark money and secret donors, and strengthen enforcement of campaign finance laws within the Federal Election Commission. Ethics and Accountability: H.R. 1 will fortify ethics laws by expanding conflict of interest laws and divestment requirements, and require presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns. The bill will also overhaul the Office of Government Ethics, giving watchdogs more resources to enforce the law, close loopholes, and create a code of ethics for the Supreme Court. For more information about H.R. 1, the For the People Act, click here.
01.08.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Unveils Priorities for 116th Congress that Move Wisconsin ForwardKind continuing to put Wisconsinites before Washington’s elite and powerful special interests La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled his legislative priorities for the 116th Congress, which include: - Lowering healthcare costs for Wisconsin seniors, families and individuals - Resolving the crisis facing Wisconsin’s family farmers - Rebuilding Wisconsin’s aging infrastructure - Reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, and - Recommitting to a strong sense of fiscal responsibility. He unveiled his priorities for the upcoming congressional session at the La Crosse Regional Airport prior to traveling to Washington, D.C. for the first full week of session in the 116th Congress. “My first priority is always making sure Wisconsinites have the tools and resources they need to succeed,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I traveled to every corner of Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District in 2018 to listen and hear directly from Wisconsinites, and look forward to bringing the voice of Wisconsin back with me to our Nation’s Capitol.” “Together, we’re going to work to lower healthcare costs, resolve the farm crisis facing Wisconsin’s small and family farmers, invest in better infrastructure here in our state, and make higher education more affordable and accessible. And, we’re going to do it all while practicing fiscal responsibility, so we don’t leave the next generation saddled with more debt.” Rep. Kind will continue to serve as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax policy, Medicare, Social Security, and international trade. He currently serves on the Subcommittees on Health and Trade. His offices in La Crosse and Eau Claire are open and ready to help Wisconsinites work through issues with government agencies and departments. This includes getting copies of service records, receiving benefits, and cutting through government red tape. Constituents can reach the office by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040, or by visiting Rep. Kind’s website: kind.house.gov. -30-
01.03.2019	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on the Commencement of the 116th Congress La Crosse – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives convened to begin the 116th Congress. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “Today, we enter a new chapter in our representative democracy. Progress is only possible in a divided government if we put our differences aside and work together to move Wisconsin – and America - forward.” -30-
12.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Votes Against Status Quo Farm Bill La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted against the 2018 Farm Bill, the Conference Report of H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. His statement is below: “This Farm Bill maintains a status quo that will drive more family farmers out of business. It fails to rein in wasteful subsidies and crop insurance programs that lead to overproduction by big Agribusiness, and sends taxpayer dollars to billionaires on Wall Street, and in Chicago and San Francisco. It cuts $800 million from vital conservation programs, and does nothing to address the damage caused by the President’s trade war. I can’t support a bill that maintains the failed status quo. As long as family farmers are fighting for their lives in Wisconsin, I will continue to fight for them in this Farm Bill.” The 2018 Farm Bill has a number of fiscally irresponsible provisions, including a crop subsidy program that gives 80% of all farm subsidies to 20% of American farmers. The Farm Bill also expands the eligibility of pass-through entities, allowing distant relatives (including cousins, nieces and nephews) to qualify for taxpayer-funded commodity payments. Rep. Kind introduced bipartisan amendments to the House Farm Bill to create more transparency in the crop insurance and subsidy programs, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program within the Farm Bill Conservation Title, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. His amendments were blocked by the House Committee on Rules. -30-
12.11.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Reminds Wisconsinites Impacted by Flooding of December 17 Application Deadline for Federal Disaster Assistance La Crosse – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is reminding Wisconsinites impacted by late-August and early-September’s severe storms and flooding that the application deadline for individual federal disaster assistance is Monday, December 17, 2018. “Wisconsinites are strong, and are hard at work rebuilding their homes, farms and businesses after the devastating flooding and storms we saw late this summer,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I want to remind everyone facing storm damage repairs that the application deadline to receive individual federal disaster assistance is this Monday, December 17th. My office is open and ready to help Wisconsinites get connected to the help they need.” Wisconsin residents can apply for disaster assistance online at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. Counties in western and central Wisconsin that are approved for individual assistance include Crawford, Juneau, La Crosse, Monroe, Richland, and Vernon Counties. Renters, homeowners and businesses in those counties who were affected by severe storms and flooding from Aug. 17 through Sept. 14, 2018 are eligible to apply. Rep. Kind’s office has, and will continue to, work side-by-side with residents and local officials that are rebuilding their homes and communities. Any Wisconsinite with questions regarding recovery efforts or services should call his office toll-free at 1-888-442-8040, or visit his website: kind.house.gov. -30-
11.30.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement Following the Signing of the USMCA Trade Agreement La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement regarding the signing of the USMCA trade agreement. Rep. Kind is a senior Member of the Ways and Means Committee, and serves on the Trade Subcommittee: “I continue to have serious questions for the Administration about the recently finalized USMCA agreement, which need to be answered before I can come to a conclusion on the underlying agreement. These issues include enforceability of labor and environmental standards, and lifting the tariffs on Mexico and Canada that continue to hurt Wisconsin workers, farmers and businesses. I encourage Ambassador Lighthizer to meet with the Ways and Means Committee, as well as Members of the incoming majority who are dedicated to finding common ground in our trade agreements. Without the inclusion of the Democratic party, the odds of finalizing the agreement are low.” -30-
11.29.2018	Wisconsin Congressional Democrats Call for Inclusion of Wisconsin in Federal Tax Recovery PackageReps. Kind, Pocan and Moore, and Sen. Tammy Baldwin, call on Congressional Leadership to take immediate action in support of Wisconsin families impacted by severe weather La Crosse – Today, Reps. Ron Kind, Mark Pocan and Gwen Moore, and Senator Tammy Baldwin called for the inclusion of Wisconsin families, farmers, and businesses impacted by flooding in an upcoming tax package aimed at providing federal disaster relief. The tax package, which was introduced without bipartisan consideration, excludes Wisconsin from a long list of high-profile natural disasters. “Wisconsinites working to rebuild their homes, farms and businesses deserve the same federal disaster assistance as those who caught the attention of the national media. We are calling on Congressional leadership to step up to the plate and give Wisconsinites a fighting chance as they work to repair and rebuild their lives,” said the lawmakers in a joint statement. The letter, addressed to Speaker Paul Ryan, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, demands that Wisconsin, and all federally-declared disasters, are eligible for disaster tax benefits. The proposed tax package, introduced just this week, bypassed a full-committee markup in Ways and Means, on which Rep. Ron Kind serves, and is scheduled for a vote on the House floor tomorrow. In disaster situations, targeted tax benefits are a commonly used way to help individuals and businesses recover. The proposed legislation would ensure losses from disasters are deductible; waive the 10 percent penalty for withdrawing funds from retirement accounts; and protect working families from losing critical tax benefits due to job displacement from the storms. The bill would also create a credit for farms and businesses that were destroyed, in order to retain the workforce while the operations rebuild. In late August and early September, heavy rainfall, severe flooding, strong winds and tornadoes damaged and, in some cases, completely destroyed, homes and businesses across Wisconsin. Tragically, two Wisconsinites were killed in storm-related incidents. It is critical that impacted Wisconsinites receive the support they need to reconstruct their lives. Read the letter to Speaker Paul Ryan, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer here. -30-
11.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bill Expanding Access to Manufacturing Jobs for Wisconsin Veterans La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act, which will expand access to good-paying, meaningful manufacturing jobs for Wisconsin Veterans. “Many Wisconsin Veterans have excellent technical training and manufacturing experience from their time serving our nation, but still struggle to find good-paying manufacturing jobs in our state,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act will encourage Wisconsin manufacturers to hire Wisconsin veterans, and help create a stronger economy and workforce here at home.” The Manufacturing Jobs for Veterans Act will boost training opportunities for Veterans by creating a grant program within the Department of Labor establishing pilot State Manufacturing Employment Programs to support continued education, apprenticeships, and on-the-job training for eligible veterans through employers. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 6,000 Veterans in Wisconsin are unemployed and seeking job opportunities. This bill would help transition technical and mechanical military skills learned while serving to the civilian workforce, and incentivize the recruitment and training of our Veterans. The American Legion, AMVETS, and the Association of the United States Navy have endorsed the legislation. -30-
11.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Criticizes Pentagon for Failing First Full Financial Audit and Wasting Wisconsinites’ Tax Dollars La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind criticized the Pentagon for a flagrant misuse of taxpayer dollars due to a lack of financial oversight in daily operations. The Department of Defense recently released the results of the agency’s first-ever full financial audit, which earned a failing grade due to financial noncompliance and mismanagement of expensive military assets. “This failed audit shows the uncontrolled mismanagement within the Department of Defense. The Pentagon’s brazen misuse of hardworking Wisconsinites’ tax dollars is unacceptable, and should be remedied immediately,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Defense Department needs to act quickly to create more transparency and efficiency within the department, and work together with Congress to redirect money to our Servicemembers.” This comes after the release of a 2015 report exposing the Pentagon for wastefully spending $125 billion of taxpayer funds on inefficient administrative costs. The 2015 report was requested internally by Pentagon leaders to help ease bureaucracy within the Defense Department, but the findings were suppressed to avoid embarrassment for the department. Rep. Kind has long fought to cut wasteful spending and increase government transparency. In May, he introduced the bipartisan Wasteful Defense Spending Reduction Act, which would establish a commission to review defense programs and recommend wasteful and outdated programs to be eliminated. Following the release of the commission’s report, Congress would have 90 days to vote on a joint resolution of approval to enact the recommendations in their entirety. Rep. Ron Kind has been dedicated to finding ways to save taxpayer money ever since his time working for Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin investigating wasteful government spending programs for Sen. Proxmire’s Golden Fleece Awards. Rep. Kind has continued to publicly call out wasteful spending, and will continue to fight to lower the national debt by using taxpayer dollars more efficiently. -30-
11.16.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Immediate Action on Stalled GI Education Benefits for Wisconsin Veterans Computer glitch at the VA is blocking education benefits payments to potentially thousands of Veterans La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Robert Wilkie, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to immediately address the issues Wisconsin Veterans are facing obtaining their earned GI benefits from the VA. Rep. Kind also requested thorough action steps to address the VA’s technological issues preventing GI benefit payments, and a complete timeline of remedial steps to ensure Veterans impacted receive the benefits they have earned. “It is unconscionable that a technological glitch is causing Wisconsin Veterans to lose the GI education benefits they have earned, threatening their access to education and housing,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling for immediate action to remedy this issue, and for a full action plan to ensure our Veterans receive the benefits they have earned and deserve.” Many Veterans across the country rely on GI benefits included in the bipartisan Henry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017, which Rep. Kind co-sponsored. Congress passed this legislation to permanently expand the opportunities available to Servicemembers and Veterans to access higher education when they return to civilian life. A glitch in the VA’s 50-year-old benefit processing computer system has caused Veterans to wait for months to receive their expected education payments. Rep. Kind’s office is open to serve Wisconsin Veterans. His talented staff of caseworkers can assist Veterans in: Accessing education and GI benefits, Veterans health care benefits, replacing lost medals earned, attaining medals earned, obtaining disability compensation, and liaising with the VA, among other issues. Veterans may call 1-888-442-8040, or visit www.kind.house.gov. Read the letter here. -30-
11.15.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Celebrates National Rural Health Day La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, Co-chair of the Congressional Rural Health Caucus, released the following statement celebrating Wisconsin’s rural health centers and professionals on National Rural Health Day: “Communities across Wisconsin rely on our outstanding rural healthcare centers and professionals for access to quality, affordable and local care. On National Rural Health Day, we celebrate those who work to keep our rural communities healthy and strong, and recommit to working together to ensure our rural health facilities stay open to those who need them most,” said Rep. Ron Kind. Over 62 million rural communities in the United States rely on rural health care providers for access to emergency and daily care. Nearly 700 rural hospitals are at risk of closing across the country, despite providing important care and being economic engines for the rural economy. -30-
11.09.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Honors Veterans and Servicemembers on Veterans Day La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement honoring Wisconsin Veterans and Servicemembers ahead of Veterans Day: “This Sunday, we come together to honor the service and sacrifice of Wisconsin’s Veterans, Servicemembers and their families as we commemorate Veterans Day. The men and women of our Armed Forces have served this great nation with honor, pride and distinction. We must honor our nation’s heroes year-round, and ensure we keep our promises to them when they return home to Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. Rep. Kind has introduced several bills within the last year aimed at helping Veterans and Servicemembers find jobs, access physical and mental healthcare, and expand education opportunities when they return to civilian life, including: the Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act, the Improving Preparation and Resources for Occupational, Vocational, and Educational (IMPROVE) Transition for Servicemembers Act, the Veteran Entrepreneurship Training Act, the Better Jobs for Veterans Act, the Violence Against Women Veterans Act, and the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act. Rep. Kind’s office is open to serve Wisconsin Veterans. His talented staff of caseworkers can assist Veterans in: accessing education benefits, Veterans health care benefits, replacing lost medals earned, attaining medals earned, obtaining disability compensation, and liaising with the VA, among other issues. Veterans may call 1-888-442-8040, or visit www.kind.house.gov. -30-
10.24.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces Nearly $79,000 Grant to Stevens Point Fire DepartmentDepartment of Homeland Security Grant will go to new life-saving extrication equipment Stevens Point – On Tuesday, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced a $78,790 grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program for the Stevens Point Fire Department. The grant funds will be used to purchase extrication equipment, which can be used in vehicular accidents. “Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to protect Wisconsinites. I am proud to announce that the Stevens Point Fire Department received this important grant before winter weather makes our roads more dangerous,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This funding will help ensure Stevens Point and nearby communities have the tools and resources they need in emergency situations, and save lives of accident victims and firefighters alike.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) are administered through the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grants enhance the safety of Wisconsin communities by providing financial assistance to eligible fire departments, State Fire Training Academies, and nonaffiliated Emergency Medical Services organizations.
10.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Welcomes Federal Assistance to Help Wisconsinites Recover after Flooding La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind issued the following statement after the Trump Administration granted a Major Disaster Declaration for the state of Wisconsin, triggering the release of federal funds to help people and communities recover from the recent storms and severe flooding. “As I’ve traveled across Wisconsin visiting communities and families impacted by flooding, I have seen our spirit of strength and resiliency in times of adversity. The President’s declaration will be a welcome relief for many that have been flooded out of their homes and businesses. I look forward to continuing to work with FEMA to ensure the additional federal resources are well-utilized,” said Rep. Ron Kind. Rep. Kind’s office has, and will continue to, work side-by-side with residents and local officials that are rebuilding their homes and communities. Any Wisconsinite with questions regarding recovery efforts or services should call his office toll-free at 1-888-442-8040, or visit his website: kind.house.gov. Wisconsin residents can apply for disaster assistance online at DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-3362. -30-
10.16.2018	Reps. Ron Kind and Jackie Walorski Call on USTR Lighthizer to Establish Tariff Exclusion Process Kind and Walorski are joined by 167 Members with constituents impacted by tariffs and retaliation Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jackie Walorski (R-IN) called on United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to establish a process that allows U.S. companies to request an exclusion from the recent tariffs imposed on $200 billion of Chinese imports. This process would help U.S. companies retain global competitiveness, and would help target the effects of the tariffs on China, rather than on U.S. companies and consumers. Exclusions were established for all previous rounds of tariffs, but have been neglectfully omitted for the most recent tariffs. Reps. Kind and Walorski were joined by a bipartisan coalition of 167 Members of Congress. Statements from the lawmakers are below: “The very least this Administration can do is provide businesses the ability to petition their government to prove their case that these tariffs will hurt their businesses, workers, and customers alike. I am committed to working together to ensure we find a safe landing zone for American farmers and businesses, and will continue to call on the President and Ambassador Lighthizer to end these reckless tariffs,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need to hold China accountable, but we need to do it in a way that doesn’t harm American manufacturers, farmers, workers, and consumers. A fair and transparent exclusion process for U.S. businesses will help minimize the negative impact of these tariffs and build on our nation’s economic momentum. The administration should heed our bipartisan call to establish a strong exclusion process and ensure we stay focused on the real target, which is China’s unfair trade practices,” said Rep. Jackie Walorski. This request remains consistent with previous Section 301 exclusion requests. An exclusion process is vital to ensuring that U.S. companies can seek relief in the event that there are no alternative suppliers of the good, or if other special circumstances exist that could harm their ability to compete in the global marketplace. Read the letter here. -30-
10.15.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for More Funding for Healthcare Enrollment Assistance Navigator grants have been drastically cut nation-wide, with only one grant awarded in Wisconsin La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma to provide additional Navigator funding in order to assist Wisconsin residents enroll in health insurance coverage for 2019. Only one Wisconsin organization was awarded federal funding for enrollment services this year, and the grant was cut by over 80% from prior years. “Choosing a healthcare plan can be complicated, and I want to ensure we have sufficient resources available to find coverage that works for every Wisconsinite and their family,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Unfortunately, the Administration has made it nearly impossible for Wisconsinites to access in-person assistance, and is in-turn harming the health and wellbeing of Wisconsinites across our state. I am calling for more funding for the Navigator program, so nobody goes without the care they need.” The Navigator program awards grant funding to organizations that provide enrollment assistance for individuals and outreach and education to raise awareness about the federal health insurance marketplace. The Department of Health and Human Services has drastically cut funding for the Navigator program in 2017 and 2018. With only $10 million allocated for the entire country this year – down from $63 million in 2016 – the program will only provide outreach to 23 of Wisconsin’s 72 counties. Read the letter here. -30-
10.10.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Leads Ways and Means Democrats in Calling for GAO Investigation Into How the Administration’s Border Policies Detract from Forced Labor Enforcement La Crosse – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind and John Lewis led all Ways and Means Democrats in calling for a Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation into whether or not the Administration’s aggressive immigration policy is detracting from its ability to adequately enforce laws prohibiting the importation of goods produced with forced labor. “If the President is serious about a level playing field for American workers, ending the importation of goods made by forced labor should be a clear first step,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling on the GAO to investigate if the President's "zero-tolerance" immigration policy is causing the U.S. to lose focus on banning imports produced with forced labor, and expect a full report so we can take immediate corrective action.” The U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency (CBP) is the largest federal law enforcement agency within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and is responsible for enforcing both international trade regulations and U.S. immigration policy. Rep. Kind specifically requested that the GAO compare the CBP resources dedicated to immigration policy enforcement with the resources dedicated to the enforcement of the prohibition of goods produced with forced labor. Read the letter here. Rep. Kind and Lewis, along with former Ways and Means Chairmen Sandy Levin and Charlie Rangel, introduced legislation to close a 75-year-old loophole which allowed products made by forced labor to enter the United States. President Obama signed the legislation into law as part of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act in late 2015. In his final year in office, President Obama used this new authority four times, the first such action since the Clinton Administration. In the first 19 months of the Trump Administration, it has been used just twice. -30-
10.05.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Celebrates the Reopening of De Soto High School’s Football Field after 2016 Flooding De Soto - Thursday night, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind celebrated the reopening of De Soto High School’s football field, which was washed out in the floods of September 2016. Rep. Kind worked with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to help replace the field, which required $500,000 in repairs. “As a former high school quarterback myself, many of my favorite memories were made under Wisconsin’s Friday night lights,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am excited to see De Soto High School’s field repaired and reopened, and look forward to watching a lot of great football on their new field.” Rep. Kind also presented a new American flag to the school, which was flown over the United States Capitol in honor of the reopening of the field. -30-
10.05.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Requests Federal Disaster Declaration to Help Wisconsinites Impacted by Severe Weather and Flooding La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to President Trump in support of Governor Walker’s request for a federal disaster declaration for several Wisconsin counties impacted by flooding. Rep. Kind’s letter also reiterates his call to the President to put the full support of the federal government behind flooding cleanup efforts. Many counties across Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District were impacted, including La Crosse, Vernon, Monroe, Crawford, Richland, Juneau and Adams counties. “My staff and I have been on the ground, touring flooded areas and helping Wisconsinites recover and begin the process of rebuilding our communities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Wisconsinites are strong, but there is no doubt that federal assistance will be needed to help everyone get back in their homes, businesses and farms. I welcome the Governor’s declaration request, and again urge the President to fully support the state of Wisconsin, our communities, and our farmers.” Read the letter here. Immediately after the flooding, Rep. Kind wrote a letter to President Trump requesting that he put the full support of the federal government behind cleanup and recovery efforts in Wisconsin. Rep. Kind requested additional assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for damage assessments, road and bridge repair assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT), and farm and crop damage assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. More information can be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Residents are also encouraged to report home damage by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. Farmers should report crop damage to their county’s Farm Service Agency. -30-
10.03.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Bipartisan Bill to Assist Servicemembers and Families Transitioning to Civilian Life La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Improving Preparation and Resources for Occupational, Vocational, and Educational (IMPROVE) Transition for Servicemembers Act with Reps. Jacky Rosen (D-NV) and Walter Jones (R-NC). Senators Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) have introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “The transition from military life back into the civilian world is understandably challenging for many Servicemembers and military families. We need to do everything we can to ease this transition, and ensure every agency that helps in this process is working together seamlessly,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to introduce the IMPROVE Act, so our Servicemembers and their families get the best transition assistance possible after courageously serving our nation.” The IMPROVE Act will reform the existing Transition Assistance Program (TAP) for transitioning Servicemembers by emphasizing career technical training and higher education courses, increasing the ratio of TAP employees to Servicemembers, and by streamlining the accessibility of state-wide veteran services by creating a searchable database for Servicemembers and veterans. Rep. Kind has also recently co-sponsored and championed multiple bills aimed at helping Veterans find jobs when they return to civilian life, including the Veteran Entrepreneurship Training Act, the Better Jobs for Veterans Act and the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act of 2018. -30-
10.02.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces Nearly $88,000 Grant to Chippewa Valley Technical College to Improve Educators’ Understanding of Hmong History and Culture Grant will bring educators together from CVTC, Northcentral Technical College, Western Technical College, and the Eau Claire, Wausau, La Crosse, Cornell, and Elk Mound School Districts to participate in a study travel experience and create culturally sensitive curriculum for students across Wisconsin Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced an $87,615 grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s Fulbright-Hays Group Projects Abroad Program for Chippewa Valley Technical College. The grant will fund a study-abroad experience for program participants that includes a 4-week visit to Hmong villages and schools in Thailand, so educators can gain a firsthand understanding of cultural norms, practices, and living conditions of Hmong students and families who have relocated from Asia to the Midwest. Following the trip, instructors will integrate resources gathered during the seminar into coursework back in the U.S., in an effort to enhance students’ understanding of the Hmong population and its role as Wisconsin’s fastest growing ethnic minority group. “Decades after courageously fighting for the U.S. and seeking refuge in Wisconsin, our Hmong population are still forced to fight for cultural understanding here in our state,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I look forward to seeing how this project helps bridge the gap between our Hmong students and their peers, and am confident it will give all of our students and teachers the opportunity to take pride in the unique cultures and stories that make Wisconsin a great place to live.” “This exciting project will help foster collaboration and understanding between Wisconsin’s teachers and the Hmong population in the region,” said Dr. Ka Vang, CVTC’s Project Director for the grant. “I look forward to working with educators across the state to lead the immersion experience and support curriculum that provides better background into the lives and culture of Wisconsin’s Hmong families.” “This grant will help CVTC to foster a better understanding of the substantial Hmong population in the Chippewa Valley,” said CVTC President Bruce Barker. “Valuing diversity is one of CVTC’s core abilities that is woven into all programs and student activities. We appreciate the efforts of Rep. Kind and the Department of Education in helping us broaden these efforts.” Twelve educators will have the opportunity to participate in the project. Six instructors will be selected from CVTC, Northcentral Technical College, Western Technical College, and 6 will be selected from K-12 schools within the Eau Claire, Wausau, La Crosse, Cornell, and Elk Mound School Districts. -30-
10.01.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on the Completion of NAFTA Renegotiations La Crosse – Late last evening, the Trump Administration announced the completion of a trilateral NAFTA renegotiation. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “American workers, farmers and families need an updated NAFTA agreement for the 21st century. The trilateral deal announced last night is a step forward in this process, but now it’s time for us to come together to discuss the outstanding issues that remain. Not only should we demand the highest possible labor and environmental standards, but ensure they are fully enforceable – a standard which many of our past trade agreements have not met. I will continue to keep the pressure on the President to get the best deal for America’s Dairyland with both Canada and Mexico.” -30-
09.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces $3.6 Million Grant to City of La Crosse for Water Infrastructure and Business Development Grant will help make improvements to La Crosse’s watershed storm stations La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced a $3.6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) for the City of La Crosse to improve water infrastructure and support business growth in Wisconsin. “The Driftless region is the most beautiful place to live in America, but it comes with challenges – like the possibility of flooding and severe storms that can damage our homes, fields and businesses,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This grant will help make important improvements to La Crosse’s watershed storm water lift stations on the Northside, and allow our businesses to grow and thrive here in western Wisconsin.” Grant funds will be used to improve and redevelop three storm water lift stations to safeguard Wisconsin businesses from future flooding, and attract new industry to western Wisconsin. The critical storm water infrastructure improvements are located in La Crosse’s North watershed, which is outdated and fails to meet safety standards for the expanding Northside. -30-
09.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Meets with United States Trade Representative Lighthizer and Warns Against Leaving Wisconsin Dairy Farmers Behind Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind met with United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to discuss NAFTA renegotiations and the text of a bilateral U.S. and Mexico agreement, which is expected to be released to the public later this week. Rep. Kind’s statement is below: “Today, I brought feedback from my Rural Economy Roundtables and the voices of Wisconsin’s farmers to a meeting with Ambassador Lighthizer, where I warned him of the adverse impact his policies are inflicting on Wisconsin communities. I urged him to find a soft landing zone before more damage is done and consumers start to see price hikes. I also reiterated my call to the Ambassador to stop rushing this process, and focus on getting the best deal possible with both Canada and Mexico. We need a fair and transparent agreement with Canada on dairy export pricing now, and can’t leave Wisconsin’s dairy farmers behind.” Ambassador Lighthizer is pushing to come to a NAFTA deal – with or without Canada – by this Sunday, in order to give U.S. lawmakers the required 60 days to review the text of a renegotiated NAFTA and ensure it is signed before Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto leaves office. Representative Kind and others have expressed concerns that omitting Canada from a final agreement violates the notification requirements required by Trade Promotion Authority. -30-
09.26.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill to Improve Assistance to Veterans in Domestic Violence Situations Violence Against Women Veterans Act will help domestic violence shelters work with VA to provide care to veterans facing crisis situations La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the bipartisan Violence Against Women Veterans Act, which will streamline communication and collaboration between violence shelters and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities, in order to improve the services available to veterans experiencing domestic violence. “We need to do everything in our power to ensure women and children in Wisconsin are safe from harm. Opening communication between the VA and community resources for domestic violence survivors will help identify the unique challenges veterans face in crisis situations, and better serve their needs. Every Wisconsinite facing domestic violence should receive the best care possible, wherever they turn for help,” said Rep. Ron Kind. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) provides benefits for victims of domestic violence, but currently does not have a collaborative relationship with local domestic violence shelters and crisis centers. The bill would establish a National Task Force on Domestic Violence to gather information on how to best provide comprehensive support to our veterans, and connect local coordinators with nearby VA professionals in order to better provide veterans crisis services. Veterans who are survivors of domestic violence are potentially eligible for a range of benefits that could help protect victims and families from abusive situations, including housing assistance, medical care, mental health services and peer support. The Violence Against Women Veterans Act is supported by the American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Blinded Veterans Association, and the Non-Commissioned Officers Association. -30-
09.26.2018	Reps. Kind, DelBene, and Higgins Call on USTR to Slow Pace of NAFTA Renegotiations and Resolve Roadblocks with Canadian Dairy MarketWays and Means Committee Members represent border-state dairy farmers that rely on access to Canadian market Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-1), and Brian Higgins (NY-26) called on United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to slow the pace of North American Free Trade Agreement renegotiations, and take the necessary time to come to a fair agreement with Canada on dairy export pricing. Reps. Kind, DelBene and Higgins represent border-state districts in Wisconsin, Washington, and New York, respectively, that need open-market access to Canada in order to sell dairy exports. To date, little to no progress has been made with Canada regarding either their historically closed dairy market or their more recent Class 7 National Ingredients Strategy that has displaced U.S. imports into Canada and negatively impacted milk powder markets worldwide. A joint statement from the lawmakers is below: “With historically low dairy prices across the United States, our farmers are depending on increased access to the Canadian market in order to sell their world-class dairy products. We urge Ambassador Lighthizer to stop rushing the NAFTA renegotiation process, and focus on getting the best deal possible with both Canada and Mexico. The arbitrary deadlines the Administration claims to face are deadlines of their own; we should not be rushed to complete NAFTA renegotiations at the expense of a good outcome.” United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer is pushing to come to a NAFTA deal – with or without Canada – by this Sunday, in order to give U.S. lawmakers the required 60 days to review the text of a renegotiated NAFTA and ensure it is signed before Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto leaves office. Representatives Kind, DelBene, Higgins and others have expressed concerns that omitting Canada from a final agreement violates the notification requirements required by Trade Promotion Authority. Read the letter here. -30-
09.25.2018	Representatives for Rep. Ron Kind to Hold Open Office Hours in All 18 Counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District throughout the month of October. “My office is always ready and prepared to help Wisconsinites with issues they face. Open office hours allow my staff of dedicated caseworkers the opportunity to meet people right in their communities, so they can get the help they need,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I hope everyone impacted by the recent flooding and severe storms in western and central Wisconsin takes the time to meet with my staff and learn more about how we can help.” Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. His office can also assist Wisconsinites having issues dealing with the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. Representatives from his office are also available to meet by scheduled appointment in either of his La Crosse or Eau Claire offices. More information can also be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040. District Office representatives will be available during the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, October 8 9:00-10:00 a.m. Emy J’s Coffeehouse 1009 First Street Stevens Point, WI 10:00-11:00 a.m. River Falls City Hall – Council Chambers 222 N. Lewis Street River Falls, WI 11:00-Noon McMillan Memorial Library 490 East Grand Ave. Wisconsin Rapids, WI 1:00-2:00 p.m. Durand City Hall – Council Chambers 104 E. Main Street Durand, WI Tuesday, October 9 10:00-11:00 a.m. Hatch Public Library 111 West State St. Mauston, WI 10:00-11:00 a.m. Onalaska City Hall - Conference Room 112 415 Main St, Onalaska, WI 10:30-11:30 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 12:30-1:30 p.m. Sparta Free Library 124 W. Main St. Sparta, WI 1:00–2:00 p.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street – Lower Level Whitehall, WI 1:30-2:30 p.m. Platteville Public Library, Study Room 1 225 W. Main St Platteville, WI Wednesday, October 10 9:00-10:00 a.m. Adams Community Center 569 Cedar St. Adams, WI 10:00 - 11:00 a.m. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 11:00 a.m. - Noon City of Richland Center Municipal Building 450 South Main St Richland Center, WI 2:00 - 3:00 p.m. Dunn County Administration Building County Board Room – Room 122/124 800 Wilson Avenue Menomonie, WI 4:00-5:00 p.m. McIntosh Memorial Library - Conference Room 205 S Rock Ave Viroqua, WI Thursday, October 11 10:00 - 11:00 a.m. Chippewa Falls Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. Fall Creek Village Hall 122 E. Lincoln Avenue Fall Creek, WI Friday October 1211:00 a.m. – Noon Crawford County Administration Building 225 North Beaumont Rd Prairie du Chien, WI -30-
09.20.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill Giving Students More Transparency When Choosing a College or Technical School La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the bipartisan College Transparency Act, which will enable students and families to make more informed choices about their post-secondary education options. “Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District is home to six UW-system schools, four technical colleges and one private university, all of which offer Wisconsin students outstanding, and unique, opportunities to earn a degree and a better life,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The bipartisan College Transparency Act will help students choose the school that best fits their needs, and will give families peace of mind when making this important investment.” The College Transparency Act will give students and families access to reporting focused on student outcomes at the higher education institution, such as enrollment, completion rates, and job placement success across colleges and majors, while ensuring the privacy of individual students is protected. This will point students toward the best school for their individualized educational needs, learning style, and desired outcomes. Currently, students have little access to institutional success rates catered to their major or programs of choice, unless provided by the school. This bill will update the reporting process to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), and allow students to access accurate, detailed reports on multiple post-secondary institutions for comparison. -30-
09.19.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Hosts Roundtable in Stevens Point with Wisconsin Farmers, Workers and Manufacturers to Discuss Safeguarding Wisconsin’s Rural EconomyRural Economy Roundtable focused on Wisconsin businesses impacted by increased steel and aluminum tariffs and tariff retaliation Stevens Point - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind hosted a roundtable in Stevens Point to listen and hear directly from central Wisconsin workers, farmers and manufacturers about the impact of increased steel and aluminum tariffs and the subsequent retaliation on Wisconsin exports. The attendees of the roundtable also discussed how to best safeguard the health of Wisconsin’s rural economy. “I am thankful for the opportunity to hear directly from farmers, workers and producers here in central Wisconsin about how tariffs and closed markets are impacting our economy,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Industries and businesses that our state is proud of, like our world-class dairy, pork, and manufacturing, are facing damage to their bottom lines because of the President’s continued bad trade policies. I will continue to fight for a level playing field and expanded markets for Wisconsin producers.” On Monday, President Trump announced an additional $200 billion of tariffs on thousands of individual goods from China, further ratcheting up the trade war. Yesterday, China announced $60 billion of retaliatory tariffs in response. The Rural Economy Roundtable in Stevens Point included area farmers, paper producers, manufacturers, and other impacted individuals. Rep. Kind has hosted Rural Economy Roundtables with Wisconsin farmers, workers and families in La Crosse, Eau Claire, and Platteville. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, over $1 billion of Wisconsin exports are threatened by the President’s Trade War, with the hardest hit industries including dairy, cranberry and bean growers, pork producers, and paper and pulp manufacturers. Over 800,000 Wisconsin jobs are supported by global trade. -30-
09.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Wisconsin Gov. Walker and Attorney General Schimel to Withdraw from Texas v. Azar and Stop Putting Wisconsinites Lives at RiskLawsuit, co-led by Wisconsin and Texas, would dismantle the Affordable Care Act La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and Wisconsin Attorney General Brad Schimel to immediately withdraw from the Texas v. Azar lawsuit. The lawsuit, which is led by Attorney General Schimel and funded in part by Wisconsin taxpayer money, seeks to strike down the Affordable Care Act (ACA), putting 2.4 million Wisconsinites with pre-existing conditions and over 220,000 ACA beneficiaries at risk of losing their health care. “It is unconscionable to think that the Governor and Attorney General would willingly put the lives of over half of our state at risk, all while forcing Wisconsinites to foot the bill for this appalling lawsuit,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Texas v. Azar will put the quality health care coverage Wisconsinites rely on in jeopardy, and inject chaos into the lives of families across the state. Instead of taking away health care for people with pre-existing conditions, we need to work together to improve the quality, affordability and accessibility of health care in Wisconsin.” Over half of all Wisconsinites live with a pre-existing condition, totaling over 2.4 million people that could be denied coverage if insurance companies are allowed to discriminate based on pre-existing conditions. Over 220,000 Wisconsinites purchased their health care on the ACA health insurance exchange this year. Wisconsin health care providers and insurers have expressed significant concern with the Texas v. Azar lawsuit and the harm it could cause health care insurance markets and individuals throughout the state. Read the letter here. -30-
09.13.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Governor Scott Walker and FEMA to Expedite Assistance to Wisconsinites Impacted by Flooding and Severe Storms Assistance for Wisconsin communities at risk of being delayed by Hurricane Florence La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and Governor Scott Walker to expedite damage assessments and request a disaster declaration for Wisconsin communities impacted by recent flooding and severe storms. This comes as Hurricane Florence moves closer to hitting many East Coast states, potentially slowing the movement of recovery funds from FEMA and other departments with discretionary emergency funding. “I’m calling on FEMA and the Governor to work with a sense of urgency in finishing damage assessments in Wisconsin, and to request a disaster declaration for Wisconsinites impacted by flooding,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “With a major hurricane moving closer to the East Coast, it’s important that we hurry to get our requests in or we could end up at the back of the line.” Communities across La Crosse, Vernon, Crawford, Richland, Monroe, Juneau and Adams counties have faced multiple days of flash flooding, washouts, mudslides and extreme wind. Homes, farmland, businesses, and roads have been destroyed. Recent assessments reach $209 million of damage (and counting) in Wisconsin. Immediately after the first round of storms and flooding, Rep. Kind and U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin called on President Donald Trump to put the full support of the federal government behind cleanup and recovery efforts in Wisconsin, and requested additional assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for damage assessments, road and bridge repair assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT), and farm and crop damage assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. More information can be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Homeowners are also encouraged to report damage to homes and property by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. Farmers should report all crop, livestock deaths, land, and building damage to their county’s Farm Service Agency as quickly as possible. A list of county Farm Service Agency offices can be found here, or below. Read the letter to FEMA here. Read the letter to Governor Scott Walker here. -30-
09.13.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces $1.7 Million Grant for Chippewa Valley Regional Airport Federal Aviation Administration grant will help reconstruct airport runway Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced a $1,697,698 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration for the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport. The grant funds will be used to reconstruct 900 feet of the airport’s runway, which is in need of major repairs. “Wisconsinites depend on our great regional airports to travel across the state, and across the country,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This grant will help ensure the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport can continue to provide safe service to people across western and central Wisconsin, and bolster travel and tourism within the Chippewa Valley.” “These grant funds will be used to ensure critical infrastructure like Runway 14/32 will continue to be a valuable and safe asset to aircraft accessing the Chippewa Valley through the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport,” said Charity Zich, Chippewa Valley Regional Airport Director. “Support from Congressman Kind for the user fee funded program that provides these grant funds is essential to ensuring the long-term viability of this Airport and all of the Airports in the State of Wisconsin.” The Chippewa Valley Regional Airport will receive $1,697,698 in funding. Find the full grant announcement here. -30-
09.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill to Open Access to Mental Healthcare for Veterans The Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act will provide veterans streamlined access to mental health services within the VA La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the bipartisan Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act, which will allow all veterans who served on active duty in combat operations eligible for hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care for any mental illness through the Department of Veterans Affairs. Currently, there is a five-year window for veterans to seek treatment after serving for mental illnesses before losing their priority status within the VA. “Our veterans have earned and deserve the best quality care we can provide, including comprehensive mental healthcare,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This important bill will help provide Wisconsin veterans streamlined access to mental health services within the VA, and help the VA better address the needs of our veterans – regardless of when they served our country.” The risk for suicide among veterans is 22% higher than civilians. According to a 2017 report from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, over 100 Wisconsin veterans died by suicide in 2015. September is National Suicide Prevention Month. If you are a veteran that needs help, or if you know a veteran in crisis, visit VeteransCrisisLine.net, call the Veterans Crisis Line (Suicide Prevention Hotline): 1-800-273-8255 (Press 1), or text 838255. This support is free, confidential, and available 24/7 for all veterans, service members, National Guard and Reserve, and their family members and friends. This bill is endorsed by AMVETS, American Veterans for Equal Rights, the Retired Enlisted Association, National Alliance on Mental Illness, Mental Health America, and the Military Order of the Purple Heart. -30-
09.11.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for a Farm Bill for the People, Not for Millionaires and Billionaires Congressional Budget Office acknowledges Title I subsidies are being abused by wealthy farmers, while small and family famers struggle. La Crosse – As the 2018 Farm Bill enters the Conference Committee negotiation process, Rep. Ron Kind is calling on Committee conferees to take into account the rampant abuses of Title I subsidy payments in the language of the House Farm Bill. This comes after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) responded to a letter from Rep. Ron Kind claiming that wealthy farmers are knowingly reorganizing their businesses to continue receiving subsidies that are meant for small and family farmers that are struggling financially. This has difficult to institute meaningful payment limits within Title I program. “This response from the CBO once again proves that Washington is lavishing huge taxpayer subsidies on millionaires and billionaires, leaving Wisconsin’s small and family farmers behind,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Farm Bill’s Title I section is an unacceptable misuse of taxpayer dollars, and must be fixed before it leaves conference committee. This is Washington incentivizing poor behavior.” The 2018 Farm Bill is currently being debated by a bicameral Conference Committee. Language in the Senate’s Farm Bill more closely aligns with the needs of small and family farmers, and curtails the abuse of Title I subsidy payments. The House bill lifted payment limits, allowing for more corruption and misuse of taxpayer dollars. The current Farm Bill expires on September 30, 2018. Rep. Kind introduced bipartisan amendments to the Farm Bill to create more transparency in the crop insurance and subsidy programs, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program within the Farm Bill Conservation Title, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. His amendments were blocked by the House Committee on Rules. Read Rep. Ron Kind’s letter to the Congressional Budget Office here. Read the Congressional Budget Office’s response here. -30-
09.10.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on Remembering the Fallen on September 11th La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement commemorating the seventeenth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “September 11, 2001 is a day that forever changed our country. The images of the falling towers, the collapsed Pentagon, and the ruins of Flight 93 strewn across the field in Pennsylvania will forever haunt our national memory. But, the memories of that fateful day also show America’s resilience, and the heroism of our first responders, police officers, fire fighters and volunteers that risked their lives on behalf of the victims. On the 17th anniversary, we remember the thousands of innocent lives lost, and honor the sacrifice of those who risked their lives to help rebuild our nation and keep America safe. We will never forget.” -30-
09.05.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Investigation into Corruption Impacting Wisconsin Student Loan Borrowers Comes after former Assistant Director & Student Loan Ombudsman publicly resigns, citing political appointees working to protect student loan companies, not students La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Office of the Inspector General to open an investigation into reports of corruption within the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). This comes after the former Assistant Director & Student Loan Ombudsman, Seth Frotman, stepped down late last month, arguing that Trump administration appointees within the CFPB have repeatedly undercut CFPB staff working to expose abuses by for-profit colleges and student loan companies. “Wisconsin students and families rely on student loans to earn a degree and a better life. They should never fall prey to the corruption and exploitation of politically-motivated actors or powerful special interests,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m calling on the Office of the Inspector General to open an investigation into the CFPB, so we can ensure nobody is the victim of predatory lending and misinformation.” Over 44 million Americans are working to pay off student loan debt, collectively owing $1.5 trillion. According to the Institute for College Access & Success, 67% of Wisconsin graduates enter the workforce with student loan debt, with the debt per student averaging $30,000. In order to ensure that the Bureau remains focused on protecting consumers, particularly student borrowers, Rep. Kind has asked that the investigation include the following questions: • Was career staff at the CFPB ever pressured by senior leadership not to enforce existing protections for students, despite there being evidence of wrongdoing by loan providers? • Has career staff been given support by current CFPB leadership toward receiving critical information from other federal departments, particularly the Department of Education? • Has CFPB leadership ever suppressed the release of materials documenting predatory practices toward students? Read the letter here. -30-
09.04.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Office Working to Help Wisconsinites Displaced by Flooding and Severe Storms La Crosse, Vernon, Crawford, Richland, Monroe, Juneau, and Adams counties faced continued flooding, washouts, mudslides and extreme weather over the weekend La Crosse – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is urging Wisconsinites impacted or displaced by flooding or severe storms to contact his office for assistance in working with federal agencies. Rep. Kind’s office can connect constituents with the appropriate relief to begin the recovery process. Residents can call Rep. Kind’s office toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or visit kind.house.gov for more information about services available to constituents. “Continued rain and flooding over the weekend is making the cleanup process even more challenging for many people across Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “My office remains open and ready to help Wisconsinites in need, and can connect flood victims with the appropriate relief to begin the recovery process. If you or someone you know is looking for help or has questions, I urge you to call my office at 1-888-442-8040.” Last week, Rep. Kind toured communities across western and central Wisconsin impacted by heavy flooding and storms, including the Town of Leon, Readstown, Chaseburg, Coon Valley, and Gays Mills. He partnered with U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin in calling on President Trump to put the full support of the federal government behind cleanup and recovery efforts in Wisconsin, including additional assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for damage assessments, road and bridge repair assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT), and farm and crop damage assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA). Homeowners are encouraged to report damage to homes and property by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. Farmers should report all crop, livestock deaths, land, and building damage to their county’s Farm Service Agency as quickly as possible. A list of county Farm Service Agency offices can be found here, or below. Emergency Contact Numbers for Home and Farm Owners: Homeowners should report all home and property damage to Great Rivers 2-1-1, or their county’s Emergency Management Office: Call Great Rivers 2-1-1 (by dialing 211 or 1-800-362-8255) Farmers should report all crop, livestock deaths, land, and building damage to their county’s Farm Service Agency Office: La Crosse County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 782-0180 ext 2Address: La Crosse County Farm Service Agency 1107 Riders Club Rd Onalaska, WI 54650 Monroe County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 269-8136 ext 2Address: Monroe County Farm Service Agency 820 Industrial Dr Sparta, WI 54656 Vernon County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 637-2183 ext 2 (dial ext 201 after for emergencies)Address: Vernon County Farm Service Agency 220 Airport Rd Viroqua, WI 54665 Crawford County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 326-7179 ext 2Address: Crawford County Farm Service Agency 37500 Us Highway 18 Ste 2 Prairie Du Chien, WI 53821 Richland County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 647-8874 ext 2Address: Richland County Farm Service Agency 26136 Executive Lane Richland Center, WI 53581-4057 Juneau County Farm Service Agency Office:Phone: (608) 847-7221 ext 2Address: Juneau County Farm Service Agency 220 East State Street Mauston, WI 53948 Adams County Farm Service Agency Office: Phone: (608) 296-2815 ext 2Address: Marquette County Farm Service Agency 438 Industrial Drive Ste 1 Westfield, WI 53964 -30-
08.29.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Tours Flooded Areas in Wisconsin and Discusses Next Steps in Recovery Process Rep. Kind toured the Town of Leon in Monroe County with community leaders and Monroe County Law Enforcement La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind toured the Town of Leon in Monroe County with local community leaders and law enforcement to assess the damage caused by recent flooding and severe storms. “The damage to our homes, businesses, roads and farms is devastating. While the true extent of the destruction is still unknown in many counties, I am encouraged to see a coordinated response by emergency workers and local community leaders to help rebuild and repair our lives and property. Going forward, I will keep fighting for all available support and resources from state and federal agencies, so we can continue to rebuild our communities. I also urge Wisconsinites impacted by water or storm damage to contact my office so we can get them connected to the right people to begin the recovery process. My thoughts and prayers are with everyone impacted by this flooding, and with our emergency workers and volunteers that are helping rebuild Wisconsin.” Damage to homes, crops, roads and train tracks has been reported throughout La Crosse, Monroe, Vernon, Juneau and Adams Counties. Many communities are without power, and have seen record breaking flood levels. Several disaster relief shelters have been set up across western and central Wisconsin counties impacted by flooding and severe storms. Yesterday, Rep. Ron Kind and Sen. Tammy Baldwin called on President Trump to put the full support of the federal government behind cleanup and recovery efforts in Wisconsin. Additional assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for damage assessments, road and bridge repair assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT), and farm and crop damage assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA) has been requested. Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. More information can be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Residents are also encouraged to report home damage by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. Farmers should report crop damage to the Farm Service Agency. -30-
08.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind and Sen. Tammy Baldwin Call on President Trump to Quickly Assist Wisconsin Communities Impacted by Severe Weather and Flooding La Crosse, Vernon, Monroe, Juneau and Adams counties facing flash flooding, washouts, mudslides and extreme wind La Crosse – With ongoing severe weather leading to flooding and damage in La Crosse, Vernon, Monroe, Juneau and Adams Counties, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and U.S. Sen. Tammy Baldwin called on President Donald Trump to put the full support of the federal government behind cleanup and recovery efforts in Wisconsin. Sen. Baldwin and Rep. Kind requested additional assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for damage assessments, road and bridge repair assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT), and farm and crop damage assistance from the Department of Agriculture (USDA). “As severe weather continues in Wisconsin, it is vital that we take immediate steps to evaluate damage caused by flooding, mudslides and heavy winds. I am calling on the President to put the full support of the federal government behind the state of Wisconsin, our communities, and farmers to expedite the damage assessment and repair process. Our top priority must be working together to get our local communities and property fixed. We can’t afford to waste any time,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Damage caused by heavy rains and flooding has once again left many Wisconsin communities wondering how they are going to pay for the repairs,” said Senator Tammy Baldwin. “This emergency federal assistance would provide relief for our communities, ensure access to safe and reliable transportation, and support their efforts to rebuild and recover.” Read the letter here. Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. More information can be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Residents are also encouraged to report home damage by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. Farmers should report crop damage to the Farm Service Agency. -30-
08.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s office open and ready to help Wisconsinites impacted by flooding and severe stormsLa Crosse, Vernon, Juneau and Monroe counties saw flash flooding, washouts, and mudslides. More rain in forecast this afternoon. La Crosse - Following the extensive flooding in La Crosse, Vernon, Monroe, and Juneau counties, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is urging impacted land and property owners to contact his office for assistance in working with federal agencies. Rep. Ron Kind’s statement is below: “The damage from last night’s flash flooding, washouts and mudslides is devastating. Many are still in need of assistance, and the true extent of the damage remains unknown. If you’ve been impacted, it’s important to document all damage. My office can help get you connected with the appropriate relief to begin the recovery process. If you or someone you know is looking for help or has questions, I urge you to call my office at 1-888-442-8040.” Rep. Kind’s office can help Wisconsinites work with federal agencies after flooding and severe weather. More information can be found by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting kind.house.gov. Residents are also encouraged to report damage by calling 211, or their county emergency management offices. -30-
08.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on the Rollout of President Trump’s Farm Aid Package La Crosse – Yesterday afternoon, the Trump Administration laid out their plan to offer billions of taxpayer dollars in aid to farmers impacted by retaliation from the President’s imposition of tariffs on America’s historical trading partners. The rollout of the program will cost an initial $6 billion, with another $6 billion in payments expected by December.U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “Wisconsin family farmers work hard every day to feed America and the entire world. With today’s low commodity prices, farmers are looking to sell into new global markets. They’re looking for trade – not aid. Today’s announcement of providing taxpayer aid in response to harmful tariffs is a drop-in-the-bucket compared to the losses that Wisconsin farmers have seen since the tariffs were imposed. Crops and goods Wisconsin is proud of, like corn and dairy, are suffering because of this reckless trade war, and are shortchanged by today’s announcement. Wisconsin farmers want to sell their pork, not receive pork from Washington.” -30-
08.24.2018	U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin and U.S. Representative Ron Kind Announce Over $1.2 Million for Low-Emission Buses in La Crosse WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin and U.S. Representative Ron Kind announced that the City of La Crosse was awarded $1.25 million by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for fuel-efficient public transportation investments that will help reduce emissions. “Public transportation is one of the most vital components of a 21st century infrastructure network to ensure people can travel safely to their jobs, schools and throughout the community. Investing in innovative transit solutions will positively benefit our society, environment and economy,” said Senator Baldwin. “This federal funding will help cut emissions, support critical public transportation upgrades and enhance the quality of life for La Crosse residents and families.” “Replacing La Crosse’s aging city buses with clean transportation will save money for taxpayers while also moving us toward a sustainable future,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am glad to partner with Senator Baldwin in announcing this exciting grant, and look forward to the implementation of these important improvements for the city of La Crosse and the Municipal Transit Utility.” “The City of La Crosse and our Municipal Transit Utility (MTU) are so excited to receive this low-no emission grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to purchase new electric buses and charging stations for our MTU. These buses meet a critical need for modernizing our fleet and will help us further reduce our City’s carbon footprint and save taxpayer dollars. La Crosse greatly appreciates the work and assistance of Senator Tammy Baldwin and Congressman Ron Kind on this grant award, which highlights our strong federal-local partnership. Much credit also goes to our MTU board and our staff for putting together such a strong application,” said Mayor Tim Kabat. This federal funding was provided through DOT’s Low or No Emission Competitive Program to support the purchase or lease of zero-emission and low-emission transit buses, including the acquisition, construction, and leasing of required supporting facilities such as recharging, refueling, and maintenance facilities. ###
08.17.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces $564,093 Grant to Western Technical College Grant will help WTC develop new programs to prepare students with the skills needed for 21st century manufacturing processes La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that Western Technical College received a $564,093 grant from the National Science Foundation’s Advanced Technical Education Program. The grant will be used to develop courses at Western to prepare students with the skills needed for new manufacturing and automation processes. The new programs will also feature a collaboration with UW-Stout, offering Western students interested in advancing their degrees a continuation program leading to a four year degree. “Our technical colleges and universities in Wisconsin are providing our students great, hands-on opportunities that will prepare them for their future. It’s important that as automation and technology improves, our educational programs do too,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am excited to see these new programs get off the ground with the help of this grant, and know it will help our students find great jobs here in Wisconsin.” “Western is thrilled to begin work on this new project, which will engage industry, secondary education students and teachers, 2-year college students and faculty, and 4-year partners,” said Joshua Gamer, Vice President of Academic Affairs for Western Technical College. “Through the project, we’re building clear pathways from an exploratory experience to a degree that will help our students attain good-paying, meaningful jobs.” Many manufacturers in rural Wisconsin are starting to adapt to updated manufacturing equipment and more efficient processes, but students in Wisconsin’s technical colleges are still learning using outdated or aging equipment and educational materials. This project will develop an advanced mechatronics program to prepare more technicians and students with the necessary skills to support industrial automation. -30-
08.13.2018	Reps. Kind and Wenstrup Introduce Bipartisan Bill Supporting Veterans’ Service Organizations La Crosse– Last week, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind and Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) introduced the Charitable Equity for Veterans Act of 2018 (H.R. 6661). Currently, the Internal Revenue Code is written to only allow tax-deductible donations to 501(c)(19) veterans’ service organizations that maintain a membership of at least 90 percent wartime veterans. This legislation would lift the wartime service requirement for congressionally-chartered veterans’ service organizations to accept tax-deductible donations, thus better representing the 2.4 million veterans who honorably served outside of wartime. “Veterans’ service organizations in Wisconsin are an important part of many veterans’ lives, helping to provide the resources and benefits that our veterans have earned and deserve. I am proud to work on this bipartisan bill that cuts needless government red tape and allows for all major veterans’ service organizations - regardless of when and where their members served - to have the resources they need to serve our veterans back here at home,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “All veterans deserve our support and gratitude, regardless of the period in which they served. Unfortunately, due to this outdated requirement in the tax code, some veterans’ organizations don’t have the same access to tax-deductible donations that other organizations have, simply because they choose to welcome all veterans as members. This legislation corrects that oversight, and gives all of America’s veterans the appreciation their service deeply deserves,” said Rep. Brad Wenstrup. AMVETS Chapters in Wisconsin and Ohio released the following statements of support: "The Charity Equity for Veterans Act will provide relief to our Nation’s most storied and historic veteran organizations. 99% of the 1.5 million existing nonprofit organizations can receive tax deductible charitable gifts but many veterans groups cannot. AMVETS continues to fight for all veterans, and we are thankful that Representative Kind is fighting for us on this unfair tax burden on vets,” said Dale Peterson, AMVETS Commander, Department of Wisconsin. “AMVETS and other veteran groups will benefit tremendously from this legislation. This bill will allow us to raise necessary funding to better serve Ohio veterans. We are proud of our Representative, and Army Reservist, Brad Wenstrup for taking this unfair tax on veterans charities head on.” said Don Lowers, AMVETS Commander, Department of Ohio. -30-
08.09.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Hosts Roundtable in La Crosse with Wisconsin Farmers, Workers and Manufacturers to Discuss Safeguarding Wisconsin’s Rural Economy Rural Economy Roundtable focused on Wisconsin businesses impacted by increased steel and aluminum tariffs and tariff retaliation La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind hosted a roundtable in La Crosse to listen and hear directly from Wisconsin workers, farmers and manufacturers about the impact of increased steel and aluminum tariffs and the subsequent retaliation on Wisconsin exports. The attendees of the roundtable also discussed how to best safeguard the health of Wisconsin’s rural economy. “Industries and businesses that Wisconsin is proud of, like our world-class dairy, pork, and manufacturing, are facing damage to their bottom lines because of the President’s bad trade policies and self-inflicted mistakes,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am thankful for the opportunity to listen to our hardworking farmers and manufacturers at Listening Sessions here in La Crosse and Eau Claire, and will continue to fight for a level playing field and expanded markets. Wisconsin farmers, workers and families want trade - not aid.” The Rural Economy Roundtable in La Crosse included local manufacturers, home builders, farmers, producers and the La Crosse Chamber of Commerce. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, over $1 billion of Wisconsin exports are threatened by the President’s Trade War, with the hardest hit industries including dairy, cranberry and bean growers, pork producers, and paper and pulp manufacturers. Over 800,000 Wisconsin jobs are supported by global trade. Last week, China threatened to raise an additional $60 billion of tariffs a year of imports on American products. This comes after President Trump ordered his Administration to consider increasing tariffs on Chinese imports to 25%. China has already placed retaliatory tariffs on Wisconsin products like dairy, cranberries, pork and ginseng. The Rural Economy Roundtable is part of Rep. Kind’s “Grown in Wisconsin” tour, which focuses on: Growing Wisconsin Workers, Creating Wisconsin Jobs and Strengthening Wisconsin Businesses. The tour includes visits with local manufacturers, small businesses, students, and roundtables in Eau Claire and La Crosse on the impact of tariff retaliation on the rural economy. -30-
08.07.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Hosts Roundtable in Eau Claire with Wisconsin Farmers, Workers and Manufacturers to Discuss Safeguarding Wisconsin’s Rural Economy Rural Economy Roundtable focused on Wisconsin businesses impacted by increased steel and aluminum tariffs and tariff retaliation Eau Claire - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind hosted a roundtable in Eau Claire to listen and hear directly from Wisconsin workers, farmers and manufacturers about the impact of increased steel and aluminum tariffs and the subsequent retaliation on Wisconsin exports. The attendees of the roundtable also discussed how to best safeguard the health of Wisconsin’s rural economy. “Industries and businesses that Wisconsin is proud of, like our world-class dairy, pork, and manufacturing, are facing damage to their bottom lines because of the President’s bad trade policies and self-inflicted mistakes,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am thankful for the opportunity to listen to our hardworking farmers and manufacturers here in the Eau Claire area, and will continue to fight for a level playing field and expanded markets. Wisconsin farmers, workers and families want trade - not aid.” The Rural Economy Roundtable in Eau Claire included local manufacturers, home builders, farmers, producers and the Eau Claire Chamber of Commerce. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, over $1 billion of Wisconsin exports are threatened by the President’s Trade War, with the hardest hit industries including dairy, cranberry and bean growers, pork producers, and paper and pulp manufacturers. Over 800,000 Wisconsin jobs are supported by global trade. Last week, China threatened to raise an additional $60 billion of tariffs a year of imports on American products. This comes after President Trump ordered his Administration to consider increasing tariffs on Chinese imports to 25%. China has already placed retaliatory tariffs on Wisconsin products like dairy, cranberries, pork and ginseng. The Rural Economy Roundtable is part of Rep. Kind’s “Grown in Wisconsin” tour, which focuses on: Growing Wisconsin Workers, Creating Wisconsin Jobs and Strengthening Wisconsin Businesses. The tour includes visits with local manufacturers, small businesses, students, and roundtables in Eau Claire and La Crosse on the impact of tariff retaliation on the rural economy. -30-
08.02.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Tours Western Technical College’s Sparta Campus to Discuss Job Training and Closing the Skills Gap Sparta - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind visited Western Technical College’s Sparta campus, and met with instructors and students in WTC’s Criminal Justice - Law Enforcement and Fire Protection Technician programs. The school also offers non-credit public safety certifications for professionals in Wisconsin. While touring the facility, Rep. Kind discussed the importance of technical education and continuing education opportunities in Wisconsin, and closing the skills gap for local students and employers. “Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District is home to great universities and technical colleges that offer comprehensive training for jobs in industries Wisconsin is proud of, like manufacturing, agriculture, business, and public safety,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m thankful for the opportunity to tour WTC’s Sparta campus to see their wide variety of training programs, and enjoyed hearing more about how we can better connect our students to jobs that need to be filled right here in Wisconsin.” The visit to Western Technical College is part of Rep. Kind’s “Grown in Wisconsin” tour, which focuses on: Growing Wisconsin Workers, Creating Wisconsin Jobs and Strengthening Wisconsin Businesses. The tour includes visits with local manufacturers, small businesses, students, and roundtables on the impact of tariff retaliation on the rural economy. -30-
07.31.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Tours Crown Beverage Packaging and Discusses Growing and Strengthening Wisconsin Businesses Crown is one of many businesses in Wisconsin impacted by increased steel and aluminum tariffs and tariff retaliation La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind toured Crown Beverage Packaging on the Northside of La Crosse and discussed the impact increased steel and aluminum tariffs, and the subsequent retaliation on American exports, are having on Wisconsin businesses. Crown is a leading producer of aluminum beverage cans, and has seen an increase in the costs of raw materials after President Trump announced tariffs on steel and aluminum in March of this year. “Wisconsin businesses and manufacturers rely on open markets to sell and buy materials and products. It’s important we work together to help them succeed by protecting their access to these markets,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am thankful for the opportunity to tour Crown and see their impressive operation, and am committed to fighting for the strength and viability of Wisconsin businesses.” Crown Beverage Packaging has operated in La Crosse for the past 52 years, and produces over six million aluminum cans per day for beer, soda and energy drinks. The plant employs 115 Wisconsinites. The visit to Crown Beverage Packaging is the first stop of Rep. Kind’s “Grown in Wisconsin” tour, which focuses on: Growing Wisconsin Workers, Creating Wisconsin Jobs and Strengthening Wisconsin Businesses. The tour includes visits with local manufacturers, small businesses, students, and roundtables on the impact of tariff retaliation on the rural economy. -30-
07.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Works to Help Veterans Find Careers in Agriculture Bipartisan VET-2-FARM Act connects veterans with farmers and resources to help start their own farms after serving La Crosse – This week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Veteran Empowerment and Training to Facilitate Agricultural Revitalization and Mobilization Act, or VET-2-FARM Act, which will help veterans start their own farms and earn jobs in agriculture by connecting them with community partners and resources from the USDA. Rep. Kind joined with Reps. Tim Walz (MN-01) and Jeff Denham (CA-10) to introduce the bill. “Far too often, our service members returning home from duty and our veterans find it difficult to find work – especially in rural and farming communities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to team up with Tim Walz from just across the river to introduce the VET-2-FARM Act, an important bill that will give our veterans more opportunities to start meaningful and good-paying jobs in agriculture and farming here in Wisconsin.” The VET-2-FARM Act is supported by Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW): “The VFW strongly supports this effort to expand job opportunities in the agriculture field for veterans,” said Carlos Fuentes, Legislative Director for Veterans of Foreign Wars. “Collaboration between different Departments in the government is an excellent idea and long overdue. Using this information sharing initiative to promote jobs and apprenticeships for veterans is a great plan that will hopefully result in them attaining meaningful careers in agriculture, farming or ranching.” The VET-2-FARM Act will invest in veterans who dream of farming by: Providing veterans with easy access to information about available jobs in agriculture by coordinating between several agencies Making information about apprenticeships, job training, education, and Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) available to veterans through a USDA website Making risk management tools more affordable and accessible for farmer veterans Improving access to loans and land for veterans starting and expanding their farms Prioritizing veteran farmers in training and education programs to help them start and expand their businesses -30-
07.26.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Congress to Cancel August District Work Period and Focus on Working Together to Help American Farmers, Workers and Families Congress recessing without putting an end to tariffs that are hurting Wisconsin jobs and farms La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called for Congress to stay in session in August and work together on long-term solutions that help protect the livelihood of Wisconsin’s farmers, workers and families. President Trump’s Trade War is negatively impacting households across Wisconsin and the country, and is hurting the rural economy. “Wisconsin’s farmers and manufacturers work hard every day to keep the rural economy afloat, and Washington should do the same. Congress needs to take charge and put an end to the trade war, which is why I’m calling on Congressional Leadership to stay in session this August and work to open new markets and keep our farms and businesses open,” said Rep. Ron Kind. Rep. Ron Kind has recently introduced bipartisan bills that would take back Congress’s power in the application of tariffs, and require the President to seek approval from Congress before imposing tariffs on the basis of national security. -30-
07.25.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Governor Walker to Focus on Election Security Ahead of Upcoming ElectionsPositions aimed at protecting Wisconsin elections from cyber threats remain open with less than one month until next election La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker to fill critical positions at the Wisconsin Elections Commission that have remained vacant months after being created in order to protect Wisconsin elections from cyber threats. This comes after the U.S. intelligence community confirmed that Wisconsin was one of at least 21 states that were targeted by Russian hackers in the 2016 election, and also stated that Russia is likely to continue to interfere with election systems in America. “A free and fair election process is the keystone of our democracy. Yet, in the past few weeks, many have turned a blind eye to our trusted national intelligence and law enforcement officers, instead choosing to side with known adversaries to America,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling on Governor Scott Walker to put Wisconsinites first by filling the vacant positions at the Wisconsin Election Commission, so we can combat threats and interference ahead of our upcoming elections.” Last year, Governor Walker eliminated five positions at the Wisconsin Election Commission, despite the positions being included in the state legislature’s budget. Similar positions were reinstated after the Wisconsin Elections Commission was able to utilize federal funds allocated for election security ahead of the next election. This Spring, Rep. Kind sent multiple letters to the Wisconsin Elections Commission requesting more information about their efforts to secure Wisconsin’s elections. The robust plan the Commission returned will require full and immediate staffing. Read the letter here. -30-
07.24.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on President Trump’s Damage Control Farm Aid Package La Crosse – Today, the Trump Administration announced a plan to offer billions of dollars in aid to farmers impacted by retaliation from the President’s imposition of tariffs on America’s historical trading partners. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “Wisconsin farmers want trade, not aid,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Our farmers aren’t looking for government hand-outs - they just want market access and the opportunity to compete. This temporary fix, which is expected to cost billions of dollars, will right a wrong that was inflicted by the President himself, and could be lifted at any time.” Rep. Ron Kind serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over all taxation, trade, and tariffs. He has been outspoken about his disapproval over the President’s isolationist trade policies, and has recently introduced bipartisan bills that would take back Congress’s power in the application of tariffs, and require the President to seek approval from Congress before imposing tariffs on the basis of national security. -30-
07.20.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Works to Expand Access to Substance Abuse Treatment in Rural Communities Bill will also create grant aimed at preventing opioid and drug abuse for youth in rural communities La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the Medicaid C0verage for Addiction Recovery Expansion (CARE) Act, which will expand access to substance abuse treatment centers for tens of thousands of Medicaid beneficiaries. Expanding access to treatment and increasing access to mental health care through Medicaid expansion are two priorities of Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan, which he introduced in April of this year. “The Medicaid CARE Act targets two important tools to combat Wisconsin’s growing drug epidemic: prevention and treatment,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Our rural communities are often underserved and need more resources and treatment centers that specialize in breaking the cycle of addiction. Now more than ever, a strategic and robust approach is needed so we can start the process of healing our communities.” Currently, only one out of nine people fighting addiction is receiving treatment. The Medicaid CARE Act will expand access to care by increasing the number of Medicare-funded treatment centers. It will also establish a new $50 million youth inpatient addiction treatment grant program to help support facilities that provide treatment to underserved, at-risk Medicaid beneficiaries who are younger than 21 years old. The grant program will have an emphasis on rural communities. Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Read Rep. Kind’s full Drug Epidemic Action Plan here. -30-
07.18.2018	In Case You Missed It: Wisconsin State Journal: “Rep. Kind is right to fight for transparency in Farm Bill” La Crosse – A recent editorial in the Wisconsin State Journal highlighted U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s work in leveling the playing field for small and family farmers. He is committed to fighting for crop insurance and subsidy reforms as the 2018 Farm Bill goes into conference between the House and Senate. Read the article below, or read more about his 2018 Farm Bill Priorities here: Wisconsin State Journal: Shed sunlight on crop insurance By Wisconsin State Journal Editorial Board; July 18, 2018 U.S. Rep. Ron Kind has been fighting for transparency in the federal farm bill for years. Some might call the La Crosse Democrat’s quest nothing more than tilting at windmills, but we see a knight fighting for a just cause. Americans deserve to know how their tax dollars are spent on crop insurance. The crop insurance program goes back decades. It helps farmers and ranchers recover from bad weather, low yields or lower-than-expected crop prices. It also helps smooth out expenses for the federal government, which is less on the spot to come up with emergency funds to respond to individual disasters. Over the years, mission creep occurred. Congress shifted direct farm subsidies into the crop insurance program. Farmers and ranchers received premium subsidies. Meanwhile the feds also paid hefty administrative costs for private insurers that participate in the program. In recent years, crop insurance has cost taxpayers about $9 billion annually. Congress slipped language into the farm bill in 2000 that removed accountability from the insurance program. Where direct farm subsidies had been public records, the crop insurance program was hidden from scrutiny. The federal government and its private insurance partners keep secret where the money goes. That secrecy remains today. People know how much the total program costs and some broad accounting strokes, but the public has no way to learn specifics. Even some members of Congress likely receive benefits from the program without their constituents knowing. The agriculture industry has evolved from being dominated by small farmers and ranchers to being dominated by massive industrial agriculture companies. Because the insurance program is neither means tested nor capped, most of the payments go to a few of the wealthiest policyholders. The lack of controls also creates an incentive for smaller farmers to buy the most extravagant policy they — with the help of their federal subsidy — can afford. The public might be outraged if it could learn the details, but it can’t. The agriculture industry pays handsomely to keep the money flowing. Ag companies and their PACs contribute millions to the campaigns of sympathetic elected officials willing to keep taxpayers in the dark. For years, Rep. Kind has sought to end that secrecy. He rightly argues that it’s the public’s right to know how Congress spends the public’s money. Transparency also is fundamental to reform. It’s difficult to lobby to change a program shrouded in mystery. Kind’s amendments have drawn bipartisan support every time, but never enough to pass. Maybe this is the year for transparency. Maybe this is the farm bill that will empower people to hold their government accountable. OUR VIEW: Rep. Kind is right to fight for transparency in farm bill
07.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Treasury to Stop Perpetuating Culture of Dark Money in Washington Transparency policies stripped by Treasury Sec. Mnuchin will let political nonprofits off the hook in disclosing major donor identities La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on U.S. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and the IRS to reinstate policies requiring the disclosure of major donors for tax-exempt organizations, including politically active nonprofit groups. Sec. Mnuchin announced the decision Monday evening. “If sunlight is the best disinfectant for the culture of corruption infesting our political process, I wonder what Secretary Mnuchin’s goal was in dismantling these important transparency policies,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This move by the Treasury will undermine our ability to stop illegal and inappropriate political contributions, and will only strengthen the power of dark money and bribery in Washington. This is a far cry from what the American voter deserves and demands.” Since the U.S. Supreme Court’s 2010 decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, nonprofit groups have been allowed to spend unlimited amounts of money on campaigns. Nonprofit groups that had donors contributing more than $5,000 a year were previously required to disclose the name, address and donation amounts of donors to the IRS. The IRS will no longer collect this information, limiting the transparency of money flowing into political campaigns. Read the letter here. -30-
07.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bill Aimed at Preventing Opioid and Heroin Abuse Bill would give more resources to states to streamline access to treatment and prevention La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the Opioid and Heroin Abuse Crisis Investment Act, which will extend resources for drug abuse prevention grants for an additional five years. The current $1 billion of funding for these grants, which was included in the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016, will expire next April. The grants will bolster efforts to streamline access to treatment and grow substance abuse prevention programs by $500 million a year. “I’ve been meeting with healthcare professionals, law enforcement officials, and community leaders across our state, and one of their biggest concerns is preventing opioids and other drugs from getting in the wrong hands,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to cosponsor this important bill, so our states can continue creating and growing preventive programs that help protect our communities.” On Monday, Rep. Ron Kind hosted a roundtable discussion with Eau Claire-area law enforcement, health professionals, and community leaders about the impact of the growing drug and opioid epidemic in Wisconsin. They also discussed Rep. Kind’s recently released Drug Epidemic Action Plan, and the ways that various public and private stakeholders can work together to help heal our communities. Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Read Rep. Kind’s full Drug Epidemic Action Plan here. -30-
07.11.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Office Now Accepting Applications for National Service Academies La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that his office is now accepting applications from individuals interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies. Students must submit their applications by Friday, October 19, 2018. “I am always impressed by the motivated, disciplined young Wisconsinites that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate outstanding students from western and central Wisconsin to become our military leaders of the future, and I’m looking forward to meeting this year’s applicants.” A Congressional nomination is required for students interested in attending the following academies: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York The application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance for the following year. Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting Mark Aumann in Rep. Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s website: kind.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. -30-
07.11.2018	Bipartisan House Coalition Introduces Tariff LegislationSeeks to Reassert Congressional Authority on Tariffs Washington, D.C. – Today Representative Mike Gallagher (R-WI), joined by his colleagues Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Mark Sanford (R-SC), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), and Ryan Costello (R-PA) introduced legislation that would require the president to submit to Congress any proposal to adjust imports in the interest of national security under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Under the bill, Members of Congress would have a 60-day period following submission to review the president’s proposal. Any legislation to approve the proposal will qualify for expedited consideration in both chambers. The requirement would apply to all future Section 232 actions, in addition to those taken in the last two years. Click here for a copy of the legislation. Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI): “Members of Congress have criticized excessive delegation to the executive branch for years, across multiple administrations." He continued, “The Framers deliberately placed the duty to set trade policy with the Congress, and we cannot shirk that responsibility. We owe it to our constituents to do our jobs and uphold the Constitution, which is why I urge my colleagues to support this bill and help restore that responsibility to where the Framers first placed it.” Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI): “Wisconsin farmers, workers and families rely on open markets and certainty in global trade to sell our world-renowned products abroad. Unfortunately, the administration is putting misguided policies ahead of the success of Wisconsinites, under dubious legal justification and threatening American standing abroad.” He continued, “Trade authorities clearly belong to Congress - as explicitly stated in the Constitution - and I strongly encourage my colleagues to step up and take their role in leveling the playing field seriously. The answers to these problems won’t come from the President or Congress alone. We need to work together to ensure Americans have an equal shot at success in the global market.” Rep. Mark Sanford (R-SC): “Almost 580,000 jobs in South Carolina are tied to trade, and over 6,000 companies export goods globally from the state. This means that any federal policy affecting trade – like tariffs – will have a huge impact. But whether you want more tariffs or no tariffs, the Constitution is explicit in granting Congress the power to decide these matters. Yet, over the years, this power has eroded in congressional hands and strengthened in executive ones. This bill would simply help Congress to reassert its constitutional authority over tariffs proposed under Section 232.” Rep. Jimmy Panetta (D-CA): “Congress must effectively execute its national security and trade oversight authorities. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation advances that goal.” He continued, “The Administration’s policies and tariffs are negatively impacting American industries and consumers, including the central coast of California's $5 billion agriculture economy. By reaffirming the role of Congress, this legislation protects our farmers, ranchers, and consumers from unnecessary trade wars.” Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ): “In global trade wars, the only casualties are American jobs and American consumers. This legislation will bring a much-needed constitutional balance to our U.S. trade policies by requiring congressional approval of all tariffs designated under Section 232 to ensure proper oversight and prudence at the intersection of trade and national security.” Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA): “This legislation would uphold Congress’ Article I authority regarding trade. Further, it would send a strong signal to Pennsylvania workers and families that Congress is committed to supporting American jobs and a strong economy.” A letter from more than 270 national, state, and local U.S. business organizations sent to the Senate in support of Sen. Corker’s legislation reads: “Article I of the Constitution assigns the Congress exclusive authority to regulate foreign trade and levy taxes, including tariffs. [T]he current circumstances highlight the need for Congress to ensure that the authority will be used, as intended by the Congress, in the overall national interest.” Below is the list of the 270+ business and agricultural groups that have announced their support for the Senate bill: Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers American Apparel & Footwear Association American Association of Exporters and Importers American Bakers Association American Chemistry Council American Feed Industry Association American Forest & Paper Association American Gear Manufacturers Association American International Automobile Dealers Association American Petroleum Institute American Trucking Associations Associated General Contractors of America Association of American Railroads Association of Equipment Manufacturers Association of Global Automakers Auto Care Association Business Roundtable Coalition for GSP Coalition of American Metal Manufacturers and Users Computer & Communications Industry Association Council for Responsible Nutrition Electronic Transactions Association Energy Equipment and Infrastructure Alliance Federation of American Hospitals Footwear Distributors & Retailers of America Global Cold Chain Alliance Household & Commercial Products Association Independent Lubricant Manufacturers Association International Wood Products Association Internet Association Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association National Association of Chemical Distributors National Beer Wholesalers Association National Confectioners Association National Foreign Trade Council National Marine Manufacturers Association National Retail Federation Organization for International Investment Personal Care Products Council Pet Food Institute Plastics Industry Association Retail Industry Leaders Association SEMI Software & Information Industry Association The Hardwood Federation The Toy Association Transportation Intermediaries Association U.S. Chamber of Commerce U.S. Fashion Industry Association U.S. Hide, Skin and Leather Association Vinyl Institute WineAmerica Alaska Chamber Alhambra Chamber of Commerce Alpena Area Chamber of Commerce Ames Chamber of Commerce Archbold Area Chamber of Commerce Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce/Associated Industries of Arkansas Associated Equipment Distributors Association of Washington Business Aurora Regional Chamber of Commerce Baton Rouge Area Chamber Battle Creek Area Chamber of Commerce Billings Chamber of Commerce Blackstone Valley Chamber of Commerce Blackwell Industrial Authority Boise Metro Chamber Bolingbrook Area Chamber of Commerce Border Trade Alliance Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce Buckeye Valley Chamber of Commerce Buffalo Niagara Partnership Bunn Properties Business & Industry Association of New Hampshire Business Council of Alabama Caldwell Chamber of Commerce Camarillo Chamber of Commerce Campbell County Chamber of Commerce Capital Region Chamber Carson Valley Chamber of Commerce Cedar Rapids Metro Economic Alliance Central Louisiana Regional Chamber of Commerce Central Vermont Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Commerce Grand Haven, Spring Lake, Ferrysburg Chamber of Commerce Hawaii Chamber of Commerce of West Alabama Chamber Southwest Louisiana Chamber630 ChamberWest Chamber of Commerce Chandler Chamber of Commerce Chester County Chamber of Business & Industry Colorado Association of Commerce & Industry Colorado Business Roundtable Colorado Competitive Council Colorado Farm Bureau Columbia Chamber of Commerce Commerce Lexington Inc. Connecticut Business & Industry Association Council of the Great Lakes Region Davis Chamber of Commerce Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce Daytona Regional Chamber Dearborn Area Chamber of Commerce Detroit Regional Chamber Dinuba Chamber of Commerce Economic Alliance Snohomish County Edwardsville/Glen Carbon Chamber of Commerce Fashion Accessories Shippers Association Fayette Area Chamber of Commerce Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce Ferndale Chamber of Commerce Florida Black Chamber of Commerce, Inc Gemini Shippers Association Georgia Chamber of Commerce Grand Junction Area Chamber of Commerce Greater Cheyenne Chamber of Commerce Greater Coachella Valley Chamber of Commerce Greater Des Moines Partnership Greater Flagstaff Chamber of Commerce Greater Houston LGBT Chamber of Commerce Greater Idaho Falls Chamber of Commerce Greater Irvine Chamber of Commerce Greater Kansas City Chamber of Commerce Greater Lexington Chamber of Commerce Greater Memphis Chamber Greater Mission Chamber of Commerce Greater New Orleans, Inc. Greater North Dakota Chamber Greater OKC Chamber Greater Omaha Chamber of Commerce Greater Oro Valley Chamber of Commerce Greater Owensboro Chamber of Commerce Greater Phoenix Chamber Greater Reading Chamber Alliance Greater Rochester Chamber of Commerce Greater Spokane Incorporated Greenville Chamber Harford County Chamber of Commerce Harrisburg Regional Chamber & CREDC Hastings Area Chamber of Commerce Hilton Head Island-Bluffton Chamber of Commerce Hudson Area Chamber of Commerce Hudson County Chamber of Commerce Imaging Supplies Coalition (ISC) Indiana Chamber of Commerce Indy Chamber International Association of Drilling Contractors Iowa Association of Business and Industry Iowa Chamber Alliance Irving-Las Colinas Chamber of Commerce Jackson County Chamber of Commerce Jerome 20/20, Inc. Johnson City/Jonesborough/Wash. County Chamber of Commerce Kalispell Chamber of Commerce Kansas Chamber Kearney Area Chamber of Commerce Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Kingsport Chamber of Commerce La Crosse Area Chamber of Commerce La Pine Chamber Of Commerce Lancaster Chamber Laredo Chamber of Commerce Lewis Clark Valley Chamber of Commerce Lincoln Chamber of Commerce Long Beach Area Chamber of Commerce Longview Chamber of Commerce Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce Loudoun County Chamber of Commerce Lubbock Chamber of Commerce Maine State Chamber of Commerce Marana Chamber of Commerce Marshall Area Chamber of Commerce Marshalltown Area Chamber of Commerce Maryland Chamber of Commerce Massachusetts Package Stores Association McAllen Chamber of Commerce Meade County Chamber of Commerce Metro Atlanta Chamber Metro South Chamber of Commerce Michigan City Chamber of Commerce Minneapolis Regional Chamber Mississippi Economic Council - The State Chamber of Commerce Missouri Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mobile Area Chamber of Commerce Monroe Chamber of Commerce Montana Chamber of Commerce Monterey Peninsula Chamber of Commerce Montgomery Area Chamber of Commerce Naperville Area Chamber of Commerce National Tooling and Machining Association New Orleans Chamber of Commerce North Carolina Chamber North Country Chamber of Commerce North Orange County Chamber of Commerce North San Antonio Chamber North San Diego Business Chamber North Texas Commission North Texas GLBT Chamber of Commerce Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce Northern Virginia Chamber of Commerce Ohio Chamber of Commerce Oshkosh Chamber of Commerce Overland Park Chamber of Commerce Oxnard Chamber of Commerce Pasadena Chamber of Commerce Pasco Chamber of Commerce Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry Perry County Chamber of Commerce, LLC Plano Chamber of Commerce Prattville Area Chamber of Commerce Precision Machined Products Association Precision Metalforming Association Regional Chamber of Commerce San Gabriel Valley Rochester Regional Chamber of Commerce Rogers-Lowell Area Chamber of Commerce Rolling Meadows Chamber Salt Lake Chamber San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce San Francisco Chamber of Commerce San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership Sandy Area Chamber of Commerce Santa Clarita Valley Chamber of Commerce Selma and Dallas County Chamber of Commerce Shiawassee Regional Chamber of Commerce Silicon Valley Leadership Group Simi Valley Chamber of Commerce South Baldwin Chamber of Commerce South Bend Regional Chamber South County Chamber of Commerce Southwest California Legislative Council Specialty Equipment Market Association Spencer County Regional Chamber of Commerce St. Tammany West Chamber of Commerce Stanly County Chamber of Commerce State Chamber of Oklahoma Surprise Regional Chamber of Commerce Tacoma-Pierce County Chamber Tennessee Chamber of Commerce & Industry The African American Chamber of Commerce of New Jersey, INC The Business Council of New York State The Chamber Grand Forks East Grand Forks The Chamber of Lawrence Kansas The Chamber of Medford/Jackson County The Chamber of the Santa Barbara Region The Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce The Home Furnishings Association The San Antonio Chamber of Commerce The Silicon Valley Organization The United Regional Chamber of Commerce Torrance Area Chamber of Commerce Travel Goods Association Traverse City (MI) Area Chamber of Commerce Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association Tucson Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Tucson Metro Chamber Tulsa Regional Chamber TwinWest Chamber of Commerce Union County, KY Chamber of Commerce United Corpus Christi Chamber of Commerce United States Council for International Business Vernal Area Chamber of Commerce Virginia Chamber of Commerce Wake Forest Chamber of Commerce Washington Retail Association West Virginia Chamber of Commerce Western DuPage Chamber of Commerce White Pine Chamber of Commerce Wichita Regional Chamber of Commerce Yankton Area Chamber of Commerce York County Economic Alliance Yuma County Chamber of Commerce ###
07.09.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Holds Roundtable Discussion with Eau Claire-area Community Leaders on the Growing Drug Epidemic Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind held a roundtable discussion with Eau Claire-area law enforcement, health professionals, and community leaders about the impact of the growing drug and opioid epidemic in Wisconsin. They also discussed Rep. Kind’s recently released Drug Epidemic Action Plan, and the ways that various public and private stakeholders can work together to help heal our communities. “Our drug epidemic is an all-hands-on-deck moment in Wisconsin. If we’re going to get serious about breaking this cycle of addiction, we need to come together at the federal, state and local levels and work together,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The professionals I met with today are working tirelessly to help Wisconsin heal. I am thankful that I had the opportunity to listen and learn more about the epidemic, and will continue the fight to protect and heal Wisconsin communities.” Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan was created in collaboration with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction, and consists of five key components: Provide Support to Law Enforcement and Communities and Intercept Drugs at the Border Expand Access to Treatment Encourage Alternative Pain Treatments Improve Prescribing Practices Increase Access to Mental Health Care through Medicaid Expansion Read the full plan here. Media Note: A photo of Rep. Ron Kind listening to Eau Claire-area community leaders at his Drug Epidemic Roundtable is attached. -30-
07.03.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Tours Brewery in La Crosse to Discuss Impact of Trade WarPresident Trump’s 10% Tariffs on Aluminum will cost America’s beer industry more than $340 million a year La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind toured the La Crosse City Brewery and discussed the negative impact the beer industry is facing after the Trump Administration’s implementation of a new 10% tariff on aluminum. Over half of the beer produced in America annually is packed in aluminum cans or bottles. “Wisconsin breweries are an important part of Wisconsin’s heritage and economy,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The President’s reckless trade policies are threatening an industry we are proud of, and throwing our state into the throes of his trade war. He needs to stop enacting trade policies that hurt Wisconsin businesses and jobs.” Over 50% of United States aluminum is imported from Canada, with nearly 10% of aluminum imports used in food and drink production. The price of aluminum has gone up 130% since the beginning of 2018. According to the Beer Institute, over 8,000 jobs are supported in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District by the beer industry, with a total economic impact of over $1 Billion. Media Note: A photo of Rep. Ron Kind touring the La Crosse City Brewery is attached. -30-
07.02.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Unveils Plan to Protect Mississippi River and Restore River InfrastructureMississippi River has a total economic impact of over $580 billion, and supports thousands of jobs in Wisconsin La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled a comprehensive plan to restore failing river infrastructure systems and protect the Mississippi River for generations to come. The plan was created in collaboration with Rep. Kind’s River Advisory Board, which includes ecologists, conservation advocates, sportsmen, and river agency representatives. “The Mississippi River shapes Wisconsin’s environment and local economy,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need to take proactive steps to support the river and the jobs and quality of life it brings our river towns. After working together with my River Advisory Board, I am proud to unveil a comprehensive plan that will help restore our outdated river infrastructure and protect the Mississippi for generations to come.” Rep. Kind’s Mississippi River Action Plan consists of four main components: Repairing the river’s aging locks and dams Protecting the Mississippi by promoting a strong Conservation Title in the Farm Bill Restoring the river through the Upper Mississippi River Restoration Program Creating jobs by supporting recreation, tourism and navigation Read the full plan here. Rep. Kind is the founder and co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Task Force, and a co-chair of the Congressional Mississippi River Caucus and the Congressional Wildlife Refuge Caucus. He has championed the protection of the Mississippi River for the people of Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. -30-
06.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Urges President Trump to put the Success of Wisconsin Companies before Foreign-Owned FoxconnPresident Trump is attending the Taiwanese company’s groundbreaking in Wisconsin amid an escalating trade war that is devastating Wisconsin farms and companies La Crosse – As President Trump visits Wisconsin, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is urging the President to put Wisconsin workers, families and farmers ahead of foreign companies. His statement is below: “The irony of President Trump coming to Wisconsin to praise Foxconn - a Taiwanese company that has required billions of Wisconsin taxpayer incentives - while threatening to tax Wisconsin’s own Harley Davidson out of existence, is not lost on Wisconsinites. The President needs to stop enacting trade policies that hurt Wisconsin businesses and farmers, and instead help them compete in the global economy.” This comes after a series of unforced errors made by the Administration and Republican Congressional leadership that have negatively impacted Wisconsin businesses competitiveness abroad, including the withdrawal from the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) and the systematic destruction of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. Recently, Harley Davidson announced plans to move a U.S.-based plant to Thailand as a result of the U.S.’s exit from the TPP. Similarly, GE announced plans to move a manufacturing plant from Wisconsin and Canada due to years of Ex-Im Bank instability. -30-
06.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Congressional Leadership to Oppose Budget that Cuts Social Security and MedicareProposed Fiscal Year 2019 budget passed out of the Budget Committee last week La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind urged Speaker Paul Ryan and Leader Nancy Pelosi to oppose efforts to bring the hyper-partisan Fiscal Year 2019 budget to the House Floor for a vote, citing the proposal’s intention to make major cuts to Social Security and Medicare. “We should not allow an irresponsible, Washington budget to balance on the backs of Wisconsin seniors,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Older Wisconsinites have earned Medicare and Social Security through years of payroll taxes and hard work. This proposed budget will gut the programs Wisconsinites rely on in their golden years, and should receive no consideration as we start to create our next budget.” Last week, Republican leadership introduced a budget that would squeeze $537 billion out of Medicare in the next decade, and cut $4 billion from Social Security. It also includes provisions to cut $230 billion from education and job training programs, and reduces the availability of Pell Grant awards. The budget blueprint passed out of the Budget Committee last week. Read the letter here. -30-
06.26.2018	Representatives for Rep. Ron Kind to Hold Open Office Hours in All 18 Counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District throughout the month of July. “My office is always available to help Wisconsinites that need a hand,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I hope people across Wisconsin join my staff at open office hours in their community to share their thoughts or seek help with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist Wisconsinites having issues dealing with the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. Representatives from his office are also available to meet by scheduled appointment in either of his La Crosse or Eau Claire offices. District Office representatives will be available during the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, July 16 Wood County Wisconsin Rapids, WI Monday, July 16 9:00-10:00 a.m. McMillan Memorial Library 490 East Grand Ave. Wisconsin Rapids, WI 54494 Pierce County Prescott, WI Monday July 16 10:30-11:30 a.m. Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI Portage County Stevens Point, WI Monday, July 16 11:00 a.m.- Noon Portage County Public Library, Rotary Room 1001 Main Street Stevens Point, WI 54481Pepin County Pepin, WI Monday July 16 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759Vernon County Chaseburg, WI Monday, July 16 4:00 - 5:00 p.m. Chaseburg Village Hall 400 Depot Street Chaseburg, Wisconsin 54621Tuesday, July 17 Juneau County Mauston, WI Tuesday, July 17 10:00-11:00 a.m. Hatch Public Library 111 West State St. Mauston, WI 539478 La Crosse County Holmen, WI Tuesday, July 17 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. Holmen Village Hall 421 South Main Street Holmen, WI 54636 Jackson County Black River Falls, WI Tuesday July 17 10:30 - 11:30 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 Monroe County Tomah, WI Tuesday, July 17 Noon -1:00 p.m. Tomah City Hall 819 Superior Ave Tomah, WI 54660 Trempealeau County Whitehall, WI Tuesday July 17 1:00 - 2:00 p.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street – Lower Level Whitehall, WI 54773 Wednesday, July 18 Adams County Adams, WI Wednesday, July 18 9:00-10:00 a.m. Adams Community Center 569 Cedar Street Adams, WI 53910 Crawford County Ferryville, WI Wednesday, July 18 9:30 - 10:30 a.m. Ferryville Village Hall 170 Pine Street Ferryville, WI 54628 Buffalo County Alma, WI Wednesday July 18 10:00 - 11:00 a.m. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 Crawford CountyPrairie du Chien, WI Wednesday, July 18 11:00 a.m. - Noon Café Hope 120 N. Beaumont Road Prairie du Chien, WI 53821 Dunn County Menomonie, WI Wednesday July 18 2:00 - 3:00 p.m. Dunn County Administration Building County Board Room – Room 122/124 800 Wilson Avenue Menomonie, WI 54751 Grant County Potosi, WI Wednesday, July 18 2:30 - 3:30 p.m. Potosi Village Hall 105 N Main Street Potosi, WI 53820 Thursday, July 19 Grant County Muscoda, WI Thursday, July 19 10:00-11:00 a.m. Muscoda Village Hall 206 N. Wisconsin Ave. Muscoda, WI 53573 Richland County Richland Center, WI Thursday, July 19 Noon – 1:00 p.m. Brewer Public Library 325 North Central Avenue Richland Center, WI 53581 Vernon County Hillsboro, WI Thursday, July 19 1:30 - 2:30 p.m. Hillsboro City Hall 123 Mechanic Street Hillsboro, WI 54634 Friday, July 20 Eau Claire County Augusta, WI Friday July 20 9:00 – 10:00 a.m. Augusta City Hall – Council Chambers 145 W. Lincoln Street Augusta, WI 54722 Chippewa County Chippewa Falls, WI Friday July 20 11:00 a.m. - Noon Chippewa Falls Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 54729 -30-
06.22.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on Finding a Bipartisan Fix to our Immigration System Comes after a chaotic week of proposed partisan immigration reform bills La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement on finding bipartisan fixes to our broken immigration system: “This week’s chaotic push – and failure - to fix our broken immigration system is another reminder that bipartisanship is the only path forward in finding a solution to any issue. In 2013, we had the opportunity to vote on a bipartisan immigration reform bill out of the Senate, but House Republicans refused to bring the bill to the floor for a vote. We need to get serious about finding bipartisan solutions that grow Wisconsin’s economy and promote legal immigration, while securing our borders.”
06.21.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on Washington’s Attack on Wisconsin Farmers La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind slammed Congressional Leadership for continuing a blatant attack on Wisconsin’s small and family farmers by passing the hyper-partisan 2018 Farm Bill, HR 2: the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. His statement is below: “The Farm Bill that passed today in the House of Representatives lavishes millions of dollars of taxpayer subsidies on large agribusinesses and cuts vital conservation programs at the expense of our family farmers,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need a Farm Bill that will work for our family farmers in Wisconsin – not for powerful special interests in Washington.” Rep. Kind introduced bipartisan amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill to create more transparency in the crop insurance and subsidy programs, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program within the Farm Bill Conservation Title, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. His amendments were blocked by the House Committee on Rules. The first vote on the 2018 Farm Bill failed in late May, and was brought to the House floor for a second vote without debate or amendment consideration. -30-
06.20.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Bill to Help Address Wisconsin’s Drug Crisis Passes HouseBipartisan PROPER Act passed unanimously through House, moves to Senate La Crosse – Last night, the bipartisan PROPER Act, introduced by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, unanimously passed out of the U.S. House of Representatives. Once signed into law, the PROPER Act will help in combatting the growing opioid and drug crisis in Wisconsin by providing Medicare beneficiaries more information about the risks associated with opioid medication, expanding coverage of alternative pain management treatment, and promoting proper disposal of opioid medications. The bill was coauthored by Rep. Erik Paulsen of Minnesota. “As a former prosecutor in Wisconsin, I know the grip that the opioid and drug crisis has had on our state. I also know that solving this problem will require all of us to come together to break the cycle of addiction in our communities.” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud that this bill passed the House, so we can take another step forward in helping our communities heal.” The PROPER Act was included as part of Rep. Kind’s comprehensive Drug Epidemic Action Plan, which was collaboratively created after a series of listening sessions with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction. Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug-related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. -30-
06.19.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Reiterates Call to USDA Sec. Perdue to Safeguard Wisconsin Farmers Facing Impacts of Tariff Retaliation La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind reiterated his call on Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue to protect Wisconsin farmers facing economic uncertainty after the recent announcements of tariff retaliation by many major U.S. trading partners, including of China, Mexico, Canada and the European Union. Rep. Kind has also requested a comprehensive plan by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to open new U.S. export markets. “Wisconsin farmers are the hardest working in the country. The last thing they need to be worried about is unfair tariffs being placed on their products – especially considering the tariffs are the direct consequence of bad trade policy,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling on Secretary Perdue to uphold his promise to defend our farmers, and create a plan to keep our farms and markets open.” In the past several weeks, Wisconsin agriculture exports, including cheese, cranberries, soybeans and kidney beans, have been the target of retaliatory tariffs by previous historical trading partners, including China, Mexico, Canada, and the European Union. The Wisconsin agricultural economy generates $88.3 billion annually, and provides over 400,000 jobs. Any uncertainty of economic security would be devastating to Wisconsin’s economy. Rep. Kind has also called on the President and the United States Trade Representative, Robert Lighthizer, to create and immediately implement protections for farmers facing the threat or impacts of trade retaliation. He has also called on the Administration to abandon their go-it-alone approach, and instead work with our trade allies to create a comprehensive strategy to bring bad actors like China to the table to address trade issues, and protect Wisconsin jobs. Read the letter here. -30-
06.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on U.S. Supreme Court’s Delayed Decision in Wisconsin’s Partisan Gerrymandering Case La Crosse - Today, the U.S. Supreme Court delayed a decision on Gill v. Whitford, a case focused on the legitimacy of Wisconsin's heavily gerrymandered legislative maps. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind's statement is below: "The keystone of our democracy is holding the power to choose our representatives - not the other way around. The U.S. Supreme Court's delayed decision on fair voting maps is disappointing, but not the end of the fight. Governor Walker and Wisconsin's state government could solve this problem tomorrow by instituting an independent commission to re-draw fair legislative districts - but unfortunately, they lack the desire to promote fair elections in Wisconsin." When Wisconsin's maps were redrawn in 2010, Rep. Kind strongly opposed the proposal and urged the Governor to veto it. Additionally, Rep. Kind has introduced the John Tanner Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every ten years. Our neighbors in Iowa use this model, and it has ensured fair elections for years. -30-
06.15.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Criticizes Trump Administration for Igniting Trade War Tariffs on Chinese goods and retaliation will hurt Wisconsinite’s jobs and pocketbooks La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement, following the announcement that the Trump Administration will be imposing tariffs on $50 billion of Chinese products, and the subsequent announcement of retaliation by the Chinese government. “Once again, this Administration has shown a complete disregard for Wisconsin’s farmers, workers and families by threatening access to affordable equipment for manufacturing, medicine, and agriculture. With China’s immediate response to the President’s actions, it is clear we are now in the throes of a trade war with the world’s second largest economy. We know that there are widespread Chinese trade abuses – including rampant intellectual property theft, forced technology transfers, and mandated joint ventures, but isolating the United States in the fight against this pattern of abusive trade practices is dangerous and counterproductive. Instead of a go-it-alone approach, the United States should work with our allies to create a comprehensive strategy to bring China to the table to address these issues, and protect Wisconsin jobs.” In reaction to the impact of tariff retaliation against the agriculture industry, President Trump was quoted saying, “Our farmers are great patriots. They understand that they’re doing this for the country. And we’ll make it up to them.” (April 9, 2018). Rep. Kind has called on USDA Sec. Sonny Perdue and USTR Robert Lighthizer for an outlined plan to protect farmers against the economic impact of retaliation. The requested comprehensive plan to protect farmers has not been provided by either Sec. Perdue or Amb. Lighthizer. China, the world’s second largest economy, has threatened to retaliate against U.S. exports, including pork and soybeans. -30-
06.14.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Celebrates Flag Day by Honoring Life of World War II Veteran Prescott – Today, U.S. Rep Ron Kind celebrated Flag Day by presenting the family of the late Bob Garber with a flag flown over the United States Capitol, in honor of Bob’s life and service to our country. Bob Garber was born in Trempealeau, Wisc., and served in World War II. He was stationed in Oak Ridge Tennessee, and was an engineer on the Manhattan Project team, helping to produce the first nuclear weapons. Rep. Kind met with Bob at his home in Prescott in 2011 to interview him for the Veterans History Project at the Library of Congress, and learned more about his time serving and the challenges he faced while working on the historic Manhattan Project. He passed away in January of this year. “Bob’s smile and smarts are missed, but his legacy of service lives on,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am thankful that I had the opportunity to meet Bob and interview him for the Veteran’s History Project, and am honored to present this flag to the Garber family in his memory. I hope that every time someone sees this flag, they think of Bob and his dedication to Wisconsin and our great country.” In 2000, Rep. Kind authored, and Congress unanimously passed, legislation creating the Veterans History Project, which has since allowed 100,000 veterans to record their stories and preserve them in the Library of Congress for future generations. To learn more about the project or the American Folklife Center/Veterans History Project, visit: www.loc.gov/vets. Rep. Kind’s office is available to help facilitate the purchase of an American flag. The flags can include a dedicated message and be flown over the U.S. Capitol. More information can be found by visiting his website: www.kind.house.gov.
06.13.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Helps Pass Bills Addressing Wisconsin’s Drug Crisis Bills are part of Rep. Kind’s 2018 Drug Epidemic Action Plan La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of a number of bills addressing the growing opioid and drug crisis in Wisconsin and across the country. The bills reflect the priorities included in Rep. Ron Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan, which he recently introduced. “Combating Wisconsin’s drug epidemic requires all of us to come together to break the cycle of addiction,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Wisconsin healthcare providers, treatment centers, and law enforcement officials are working hard to end Wisconsin’s cycle of opioid and drug addiction and heal our communities. I am proud to join the fight by voting to provide our communities with more resources to combat this epidemic, and expand treatment for affected Wisconsinites and families.” The bills passed this week will help prevent drug trafficking, expand treatment options for those suffering from drug addiction, and encourage alternative pain management techniques. Additional bills are expected to be voted on next week. Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan was created in collaboration with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction, and includes five main components: Provide Support to Law Enforcement and Communities and Intercept Drugs at the Border Expand Access to Treatment Encourage Alternative Pain Treatments Improve Prescribing Practices Increase Access to Mental Health Care through Medicaid Expansion Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdose in 2016, 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Read more about Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan here. -30-
06.11.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Unveils 2018 Farm Bill Priorities Report Report outlines Kind’s proposed fixes to Farm Bill and areas for improvement La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep Ron Kind unveiled his 2018 Farm Bill Priorities report, which outline his proposed changes to the current Farm Bill, and areas for improvement in the 2018 Farm Bill. “As a lifelong Wisconsinite, I know that one of the most important bills for growing our local economy and supporting small and family farms is the Farm Bill. I also know the crisis that our farmers are facing every day. Farms are closing, families are out of work, and people feel betrayed,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need a Farm Bill that levels the playing field, and supports our hardworking farmers and our local economy. It’s time that we work together to fix what isn’t working in our current Farm Bill, and create new programs to usher us into the next generation of farming practices.” After visiting farms across Wisconsin, meeting with small and family farmers, and talking to agriculture experts, Rep. Kind created a long-form report outlining his priorities for the Farm Bill, which include: Supporting America’s Dairyland Protecting Conservation Programs Crop Insurance Reform Opening New Markets Supporting Organic Farming Encouraging the Next Generation of Farming Rep. Kind is one of only three Democrats to offer amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill, all of which were blocked by the Committee on Rules or failed on the House Floor. The amendments Rep. Kind led included amendments to create more transparency in the crop insurance program, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program, and avoid sending U.S. taxpayer money to Brazilian cotton farmers. The 2018 Farm Bill was brought to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote on May 17, and failed. Another vote on the Farm Bill is expected by Friday, June 22. A digital copy of Rep. Ron Kind’s Farm Bill Priorities book is available here, or by visiting his website: www.kind.house.gov. -30-
06.07.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Works to Help Veterans Find Jobs and Job Training Opportunities Bill would help connect veterans with career development training La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored H.R. 5452, the Reduce Unemployment for Veterans of All Ages Act of 2018. The bill will help Veterans with service-connected disabilities access career development training through the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program. Currently, Veterans can only access the employment program up to 12 years after their service ends. “All of our Veterans, no matter their age or ability, should be able to access the training and tools they need to succeed in today’s job market,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to cosponsor this important bill, so all of our veterans have an equal opportunity to find a good-paying, meaningful job.” Rep. Ron Kind has also recently co-sponsored and championed multiple bills aimed at helping Veterans find jobs when they return to civilian life, including the Veteran Entrepreneurship Training Act, and the Better Jobs for Veterans Act. -30-
06.06.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Slams Administration on Volatile Trade Policies Follows Mexico’s new tariffs on Wisconsin products in response to Administration actions La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind slammed United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and the Trump Administration for implementing volatile trade policies, despite major concerns being raised by American workers, farmers and families. Rep. Kind’s statement follows: “Wisconsin families shouldn’t be used as pawns in a trade war,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Mexico’s tariffs on Wisconsin’s cheese, cranberries and pork are meant to hit us where it hurts, and will cut deeply into our local economy. These tariffs are a direct response to the President’s short-sighted trade decisions. It’s time that we stop treating our allies like our enemies, and set trade standards that support Wisconsin jobs.” This comes after Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto announced retaliatory tariffs on imports of U.S. steel and farm products, including cheese, cranberries, and pork. The tariffs were implemented in response to the Administration’s implementation of tariffs on steel and aluminum products from Mexico and Canada. Rep. Ron Kind is scheduled to meet with USTR Lighthizer tomorrow afternoon. -30-
06.01.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Celebrates Opening of the Great River Road Interpretive Center in Genoa Genoa, Wisc. – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind attended the opening of the Great River Road Interpretive Center in Genoa, and presented the museum with a framed statement for the Congressional Record honoring the museum’s opening and contribution to the culture of cities and towns surrounding Wisconsin’s Great River Road. Rep. Kind has supported the museum since its early stages of development. He attended the groundbreaking ceremony of the Great River Road Interpretive Center in August of 2013, and worked to secure a Scenic Byways Program Grant that partially funded the $3.8 million project. “I am honored to be here in Genoa celebrating the opening of the Great River Road Interpretive Center, which honors a precious natural resource and economic engine in western Wisconsin – the Mississippi River,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As the Center shows, our region’s culture, history and ecosystem runs deep. I look forward to hearing from Wisconsinites and visitors alike about their experience here at the museum, and congratulate the museum planners, curators and staff on this impressive accomplishment.” The new Interpretive Center, located within the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Genoa fish hatchery, provides a panoramic view of the majesty and magnitude of the Mississippi River. The Great River Road Interpretive Center is dedicated to protecting and honoring the Mississippi River as both a precious natural resource and an economic engine of river communities. Residents and visitors can explore the 6,000-square-foot museum, and learn about the economic, cultural and environmental importance of the Upper Mississippi River Region. The museum will also feature an exhibit on one of the last battles of the Black Hawk War and a history of the Sauk people, many of whom were massacred near the site of the new museum in 1832. The Great River Road is nearly 3,000 miles long and runs through 10 states and the Mississippi River. A current network of 70 museums and historic sites in all 10 river states showcase and connect the historic sites of the Mississippi River, including six in Wisconsin. Media Note: A photo of Rep. Ron Kind at the opening of the Great River Road Interpretive Center is attached. -30-
05.31.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces Students Who Have Accepted Offers to Attend U.S. Service Academies Includes students from La Crosse, Onalaska, Nekoosa, Eau Claire, Menomonie, and Richland Center La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that nine Wisconsin students, whom he nominated, have accepted offers of appointment at one of the United States' Service Academies. “Year after year, I am impressed and inspired by the talented students seeking nominations to our distinguished service academies,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Not only will these outstanding students receive a superb education, but they will be serving our country and communities with pride. I look forward to following their success as they bring their talent and commitment to serving to our nation’s service academies.” Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District Service Academy attendees include: Brooks McCarvel, of Richland Center, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Ryan Cramer, of Eau Claire, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Gregory Mathias, of Nekoosa, plans to attend the United States Naval Academy Chad Richter, of La Crosse, plans to attend the United States Naval Academy Tristan Wallace, of Menomonie, plans to attend the United States Naval Academy Victoria Kearns, of Onalaska, plans to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point Leah Erickson, of Eau Claire, plans to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point Nicholas Schultz, of Eau Claire, plans to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point Brooke Jorstad, of La Crosse, plans to attend the United States Merchant Marine Academy Every year, Rep. Ron Kind has the honor of nominating outstanding high school students to four of the five service academies. Students who wish to receive a nomination must go through a competitive application process and then be selected by a panel of local veterans and community leaders. -30-
05.30.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Congressional Leadership to Bring Bill Addressing Opioid Addiction to the Floor PROPER Act passed through Committee, but is waiting for a full vote in the House La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on House leadership to bring legislation he authored, the bipartisan PROPER Act, to the House floor for a vote. The PROPER Act was recently passed out of the House Committee on Ways and Means. “As a former prosecutor, I know that the opioid epidemic cannot be solved through the criminal justice system; Rather, it will require a public health response to break the cycle of addiction,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Today, I am calling on Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi to bring the PROPER Act to the floor, so our communities can start working together to end the growing drug crisis and help our communities heal.” The package was included as part of Rep. Kind’s comprehensive Drug Epidemic Action Plan, which was collaboratively created after a series of listening sessions with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction. Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug-related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Read the letter here. -30-
05.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on the Observance of Memorial Day Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement in advance of the observance of Memorial Day: “As Wisconsinites come together on Memorial Day, it is important that we take time to reflect on the sacrifice and service our brave men and women in the Armed Forces, and their families, make to protect our freedoms and safety. The heroism and selflessness shown by our fallen servicemembers is the ultimate form of patriotism. Our respect and gratitude extends far beyond this holiday weekend – it is everlasting. I hope everyone takes the day to join in their local Memorial Day celebrations, spend time with family and friends, and remember those who have paid the ultimate sacrifice to protect our country.” Rep. Ron Kind will be attending community-wide Memorial Day events in Eau Claire and Eleva. -30-
05.24.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Cosponsors Bill to Help Small and Family Farmers Create Conservation Programs La Crosse – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind recently co-sponsored the Improving Access to Farm Conservation Act, a bipartisan bill that would provide regulatory relief to farmers and ranchers that want to implement conservation programs administered by the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS). “Our farmers are already putting in long hours and working hard to make ends meet. The last thing they need is the stress of paperwork and expensive annual reporting, that should be meant for big agribusiness and factory farms,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to co-sponsor the Improving Access to Farm Conservation Act, so small and family farmers across Wisconsin can start creating new conservation programs that protect their land.” Small and family farmers are often registered as business entities, and are forced to comply with a time consuming and expensive reporting requirement in order to receive conservation program assistance through the NRCS. This bill would remove this barrier, and allow small, mid-sized, beginning, and family farmers the opportunity to implement new or improve conservation programs on their land. -30-
05.23.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Helps Introduce Bill to Create National Green Alert Program to Find and Protect Missing Veterans Corey Adams Searchlight Act named after Wisconsin veteran who died in 2017 La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind helped introduce the Corey Adams Searchlight Act, a bill led by Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), and named in memory of Wisconsin Air Force veteran Corey Adams, who passed away in 2017 after going missing for 18 days. The bill will create a Green Alert program at the Department of Justice to support state and local efforts to locate and bring missing veterans home safely. “Every time we send off our troops to protect our freedom, we promise that they will never be left behind. I take that promise very seriously,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to help introduce the Corey Adams Searchlight Act, to help protect Wisconsin servicemembers and veterans.” Wisconsin passed similar legislation creating an alert for missing active-duty servicemembers or veterans who are at increased risk in March of 2018. -30-
05.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Votes Against Fiscally Irresponsible and Mismanaged Farm BillFarm Bill is defeated in the House La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted against the 2018 Farm Bill, H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. His statement is below: “Wisconsin family farmers need an updated Farm Bill that levels the playing field. A farm bill that works for our family farmers, not for powerful special interests in Washington. I cannot support a farm bill that lavishes huge taxpayer subsidies on millionaires and billionaires. I know we can do better – especially for our farmers who have been struggling these last few years.” Rep. Kind introduced bipartisan amendments to the Farm Bill to create more transparency in the crop insurance and subsidy programs, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program within the Farm Bill Conservation Title, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. His amendments were blocked by the House Committee on Rules. H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act was defeated in the House, with a final vote of 198 Yeas and 213 Nays.
05.17.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Slams House Rules Committee for Blocking Bipartisan Amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind criticized the House Committee on Rules for blocking several bipartisan amendments offered ahead of debate on the 2018 Farm Bill, H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. The amendments Rep. Kind led included amendments to create more transparency in the crop insurance program, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. “The vote to block these money-saving, bipartisan amendments to the Farm Bill is yet another example of Washington putting itself before hardworking Wisconsin farmers, workers, and families,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “This Farm Bill is our chance to fix what’s not working for our farmers, not funnel more giveaways to millionaires and huge agribusiness.” Rep. Kind’s amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill included the following: · A bipartisan amendment to: Bring crop insurance in line with other taxpayer funded programs, in order to create more transparency within the Crop Insurance Program (Reps. Kind/Sensenbrenner) · An amendment to: Reinstate the Conservation Stewardship Program, in order to give farmers the tools they need for land conservation projects · An amendment to: Reverse a provision found in the budgetary funding bill from February that made cotton seed covered under Title 1, this reversal is needed in order to avoid a trade dispute with the World Trade Organization and Brazilian cotton farmers · A bipartisan amendment to: Lower the return rate that insurance companies can receive to 12% on Crop Insurance premiums, in order to save $3 billion over 10 years (Reps. Kind/Sanford) · A bipartisan amendment to: Create a gross income limit for Crop Insurance recipients at $500,000, in order to avoid paying crop insurance subsidies to millionaires and billionaires (Reps. Kind/Rothfuss) · A bipartisan amendment to: Lower the gross income limit for Title I recipients from $900,000 to $500,000, in order to avoid subsidizing millionaire’s farms (Reps. Kind/Rothfuss/Sensenbrenner) One bipartisan amendment Rep. Kind co-sponsored was approved by the Rules Committee. The amendment would open the US sugar market, in order to avoid perpetuating an artificially supported market. It is led by Rep. Foxx, with Reps. Danny K. Davis, Shuster, Blumenauer, Chabot, Speier, Barletta and Kind co-sponsoring. -30-
05.17.2018	Rep. Ron Kind’s Bill to Address Drug Crisis Passes House Ways and Means CommitteeBipartisan PROPER Act headed to House floor for a full vote in the coming months La Crosse –Yesterday, legislation authored by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind combatting the growing opioid and drug crisis was passed through the House Committee on Ways and Means. “Combatting the growing drug crisis is an all-hands-on-deck moment that will require all of us to come together to help our communities heal,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am pleased that my colleagues on the Ways and Means committee passed this bipartisan legislation, and look forward to fighting for its complete passage through the House soon.” The package was included as part of Rep. Kind’s comprehensive Drug Epidemic Action Plan, which was collaboratively created after a series of listening sessions with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction. Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. “As a former prosecutor, I know that the opioid epidemic cannot be solved through the criminal justice system; Rather, it will require a public health response to break the cycle of addiction,” Rep. Kind concluded. Additional legislation addressing the drug epidemic is expected to come to the House floor for a full vote in the coming months. -30-
05.16.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Votes to Protect Veterans’ Access to Quality Care Rep. Kind passes provisions to improve care for Wisconsin veterans and strengthen VA opioid safety La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted for the bipartisan VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act of 2018. The bill improves and streamlines the VA Choice program, which allows eligible veterans to receive care outside of the VA, by creating the new VA Community Care Program. The bill also expands critical VA opioid safety guidelines that were included in Rep. Kind’s Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act that passed in 2016, and gives the VA the authority to bar medical providers from the new community care program if they are using dangerous or abnormal opioid prescribing practices. It also includes several provisions designed to help recruit doctors to rural and underserved VA medical facilities, by offering scholarships and student loan repayment to doctors who pledge to practice in these VA facilities. Rep. Kind has fought for these kinds of bipartisan proposals to help address staffing shortages at the VA, particularly through his Veterans Access to Care Act, which offered these same types of incentives to recruit and retain doctors to rural and underserved VA facilities. “Our veterans have earned and deserve the best quality healthcare we can provide. They should never face compromised or inadequate care because of staffing shortages or strained resources,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to vote for this important bill for Wisconsin veterans, and am pleased to see it includes priorities I have fought to pass.” Finally, the bill expands the VA’s caregiver program to include veterans of all eras. Currently, this program is limited to post 9/11 era veterans. -30-
05.15.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Proposes Bipartisan Amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind proposed seven amendments to the Rules Committee for consideration in the 2018 Farm Bill, H.R.2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act. The amendments Rep. Kind led include amendments to create more transparency in the crop insurance program, protect the Conservation Stewardship Program, and avoid trade disputes with Brazil due to U.S. cotton subsidies. “I am proud to offer amendments to the Farm Bill that create more transparency, protect our farming and outdoor traditions, and save Wisconsinites hard-earned money,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need to come together and demand a better Farm Bill that works for Wisconsin farmers, families, and communities.” Rep. Kind’s amendments to the 2018 Farm Bill include the following: · A bipartisan amendment to: Bring crop insurance in line with other taxpayer funded programs, in order to create more transparency within the Crop Insurance Program (Reps. Kind/Sensenbrenner) · An amendment to: Reinstate the Conservation Stewardship Program, in order to give farmers the tools they need for land conservation projects · An amendment to: Reverse a provision found in the budgetary funding bill from February that made cotton seed covered under Title 1, this reversal is needed in order to avoid a trade dispute with the World Trade Organization and Brazilian cotton farmers · A bipartisan amendment to: Lower the return rate that insurance companies can receive to 12% on Crop Insurance premiums, in order to save $3 billion over 10 years (Reps. Kind/Sanford) · A bipartisan amendment to: Create a gross income limit for Crop Insurance recipients at $500,000, in order to avoid paying crop insurance subsidies to millionaires and billionaires (Reps. Kind/Rothfuss) · A bipartisan amendment to: Lower the gross income limit for Title I recipients from $900,000 to $500,000, in order to avoid subsidizing millionaire’s farms (Reps. Kind/Rothfuss/Sensenbrenner) · A bipartisan amendment to: Open the US sugar market, in order to avoid continuing an artificially supported market (Reps. Foxx, Danny K. Davis/Shuster/Blumenauer/Chabot/Speier/Barletta/Kind) All proposed amendments are being considered by the House Committee on Rules. ###
05.14.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Fights to Limit Wasteful Defense Spending and Lower the National DebtBipartisan bill could save billions in taxpayer dollars La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Wasteful Defense Spending Reduction Act, a bipartisan bill that creates an expedited process to cut wasteful defense spending and pay down the national debt. “Year after year, the United States spends billions of taxpayer dollars on wasteful and outdated defense programs, many of which of our military leaders have said they do not want or cannot use,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “That is an unacceptable use of America’s hard-earned tax dollars. By putting in place a commission to review and recommend common sense cuts to our defense programs we can use our tax money more efficiently, and help pay down the national debt.” The Wasteful Defense Spending Reduction Act calls for the creation of an eleven member commission to review our defense programs and recommend wasteful and outdated programs to be eliminated. Following the release of the commission’s report Congress will have 90 days to vote on a joint resolution of approval to enact the recommendations in their entirety. Rep. Ron Kind has been dedicated to finding ways to save taxpayer money ever since his time working for Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin investigating wasteful government spending programs for Sen. Proxmire’s Golden Fleece Awards. Rep. Kind has continued to publicly call out wasteful spending, and has fought to lower the national debt and end crop insurance programs that give millions away to big agribusiness at the expense of family farms. Additionally, each year he finds savings in his office budget and, to date, has given back nearly $2 million to pay down the national debt. The bill was co-introduced by Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ).
05.10.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Co-Sponsors Bill to Give New Farmers the Tools They Need to Succeed Bipartisan Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act will expand access to land and skills for new small and family farmers La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act, a bipartisan bill that will expand access to land for new farmers, and recruit and support the next generation of Wisconsin farmers. “Every year, it gets harder and harder for new farmers to break into the profession. Now more than ever, we need to take steps to make sure the next generation of Wisconsin farmers can not only participate - but succeed,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m proud to cosponsor this bipartisan bill that will give new farmers the tools they need, and new opportunities to grow and protect Wisconsin’s farming traditions.” The Beginning Farmer and Rancher Opportunity Act will invest in the next generation of American producers by expanding beginning farmers’ access to affordable land, providing new farmers with the skills needed to succeed in today’s agricultural economy, ensuring equitable access to financial capital and federal crop insurance, and encouraging commitment to conservation and stewardship across generations. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the average Wisconsin farmer is 56 years old. Wisconsin is home to more than 77,000 farms. -30-
05.10.2018	Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Call for Implementation of Congressional Review Act Procedures on Trade Measures Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Charlie Dent (R-PA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) and Ralph Norman (R-SC) introduced the Trade Authority Protection (TAP) Act, a bill that creates a Congressional Review Act style process allowing Congress the opportunity to evaluate, and in some cases reject, trade agreements and proceedings by the Executive branch. This action is derived from Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Constitution which clearly states that Congress shall have power "to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations.” The Trade Authority Protection (TAP) Act would require the President to submit a report to Congress for all trade authorities delegated to him by Congress. The report would require not only a description of the proposal but also an economic impact study on both the proposal and any and all anticipated retaliatory actions. Congress would then have 60 days to consider the action and an expedited process for passing a resolution of disapproval to nullify the action. Reps. Kind, Dent, Meeks, and Norman issued the following statements on the Trade Authority Protection (TAP) Act: “Major overhauls to trade policy are not successfully completed without full collaboration and cooperation between the Administration and Congress. It’s time that Congress steps up to the plate, and uses the powers granted by our Constitution to collaboratively shape U.S. trade policy,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We must work together, not alone, to create trade policies that open new markets for American farmers, workers, and businesses.” “Congress must reassert its role in trade negotiations or the country will suffer the consequences,” said Rep. Charlie Dent. “Tariffs, and other barriers to entry, are more harmful than helpful to our national economic health.” “This bill is timely and crucial to Congress' role in regulating foreign commerce, “said Rep. Gregory W. Meeks. “The Trump administration has demonstrated its lack of regard for the constitutional authority of Congress on matters of international trade making it strikingly clear that as Members of Congress we must reassert our authority as an equal branch of government. President Trump's unilateral actions regarding withdrawal from trade agreements or threatening a trade war have been all the more concerning given the lack of adequate consultation with Congress or real analysis of the economic and geopolitical consequences.” “For the past century, the United States has woven an intricate web of global trade pacts between other countries,” said Rep. Ralph Norman. “While I think it is vital to renegotiate trade pacts every so often, we must ensure that Americans are not negatively affected. The Trade Authority Protection Act would do just that. Though the Executive Branch has been delegated authority over foreign trade, Congress needs to review each decision. I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to ensure America, and it’s consumers, are well protected.” -30-
05.09.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Action on Bipartisan Bill that Helps Veterans Find Jobs Better Jobs for Veterans Act of 2017 has been stalled by House Committee on Veterans Affairs La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the House Committee on Veterans Affairs to consider his bipartisan bill, the Better Jobs for Veterans Act of 2017. The bill, which was introduced last year, would provide critical tools for veterans and their spouses to find employment. The legislation has been pending for almost five months with no action taken. “When our veterans return from service, they deserve the opportunity to find a good-paying job back at home,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “It’s time to pass this bill, which helps our veterans and their families make an easier transition from military to civilian life.” Despite making progress to lower the unemployment for veterans over the last few years, evidence has shown that underemployment continues to be a significant problem, particularly for post-9/11 veterans. Additionally, military families can struggle with financial pressures due to higher rates of unemployment among military spouses, which is estimated to be as high as 23%. The Better Jobs for Veterans Act of 2017 includes a number of common sense solutions to increase and improve veteran employment opportunities, including permanently extending the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program (VRAP), which would provide training assistance to unemployed veterans between the ages of 35 and 60. It would also help states streamline credentials to recognize veterans’ military training by giving states the ability to issue licenses to well-qualified service members after having verified that their military training meets state standards. Further, it would extend the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) to Members of the Ready Reserve and National Guard as well as military spouses, whi8ch would incentivize employers to hire these individuals. A copy of the letter is attached here. -30-
05.08.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Condemns President’s Withdrawal from the Iran Nuclear Accord La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind issued the following statement, following President Trump’s announcement of his intent to break America’s commitments under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and withdraw from the Iran nuclear accord: “As a former quarterback, I know you don’t call an audible without a better play in mind. And as a former prosecutor, I know you don’t punish someone without evidence of wrongdoing. The President’s decision to unilaterally withdraw the United States from the Iran Nuclear Agreement jeopardizes our national security and can ignite a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.” -30-
05.03.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Congress to Fix Broken Cotton Subsidy Programs Comes after Brazil’s Agriculture Minister states intent to challenge U.S. over new cotton subsidies La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind harshly criticized Congress for passing a subsidy reform program in the 2018 budget that may spark another trade dispute with Brazil. This comes after Brazil’s Agriculture Minister, Blairo Maggi, told reporters he is preparing to challenge the United States again at the World Trade Organization over new subsidies for U.S. cotton farmers included in Congress's 2018 budget package. According to Min. Maggi, the subsidy program from 2018 is comparable to the now defunct cotton subsidy program that spurred a costly trade dispute. “It's unbelievable that some in Congress want to recreate a program, inspired by a terrible policy from a decade ago, that proved to be a total waste of taxpayer dollars. Didn't we learn our lesson when American taxpayers were forced to pay $300 million to cotton farmers in Brazil?” said Rep. Ron Kind. "Spending millions upon millions of taxpayer dollars to subsidize Brazil’s cotton industry – only because of our refusal to appropriately reform our own cotton subsidy program - is shameful, and a total waste of hard-working Wisconsinites’ money. We need to stop this nonsense before hardworking Wisconsin workers, farmers and families are forced to foot the bill for Congress's mistake - again." In 2003 and 2005, Brazil successfully argued before the WTO that U.S. agriculture subsidies to cotton producers in the Farm Bill violated WTO agreements. Following the WTO’s ruling, instead of reforming the cotton program when facing retaliatory tariffs and sanctions from Brazil, Congress and the Administration agreed to pay the Brazilian cotton industry over a quarter billion dollars – the amount determined as the losses Brazilians incur as a result of U.S. cotton subsidies. Rep. Kind has routinely spoken out against the multi-million dollar payments to Brazilian agribusiness. He has also put pressure on the House and Senate Agriculture Committees to make the necessary reforms for future subsidy programs to be WTO compliant, in order to make sure American goods, services and Intellectual Property are not subject to future trade retaliation. -30-
04.26.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Unveils Comprehensive Action Plan to Combat Wisconsin’s Growing Drug Epidemic La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled his comprehensive action plan to address the growing drug epidemic that has been hurting families and communities across Wisconsin. The plan was created in collaboration with Wisconsin law enforcement officials, community health centers, medical professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction. “Our drug epidemic is an all-hands-on-deck moment in Wisconsin. We need a strong partnership at the federal, state and local level,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “In creating this plan, I have worked with people in our communities that are dealing with this crisis every day, including treatment centers, healthcare providers, and law enforcement officials. Together, we need to combat the devastating affect this has on families and communities alike.” Over 64,000 people in the United States died from drug related overdoses in 2016 – 42,000 from opioids alone. In Wisconsin, emergency room visits for opioid overdoses more than doubled over the course of a year. Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan consists of five key components: Provide Support to Law Enforcement and Communities and Intercept Drugs at the Border Expand Access to Treatment Encourage Alternative Pain Treatments Improve Prescribing Practices Increase Access to Mental Health Care through Medicaid Expansion Read the full plan here. -30-
04.25.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Fairer NAFTA Deal for Wisconsin Dairy Farmers Kind sends bipartisan letter demanding USTR Lighthizer fight for U.S. dairy farmers La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on United States Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to work toward negotiating an end to Canada’s trade-distorting Class VII dairy pricing program during upcoming NAFTA negotiations, in order to protect the livelihood of American dairy farmers. Kind, along with Rep. Lloyd Smucker (R-PA), led the letter to USTR Lighthizer, which was signed by a bipartisan group of 68 Members. “Wisconsin farmers are being asked to compete on a playing field that hasn’t been leveled, and it’s hurting the success of their farms and our communities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As NAFTA negotiations continue, I’m calling on Trade Representative Lighthizer to fight for dairy farmers that have been left behind, and work to cut a deal that helps keep our farms open and competitive.” America’s 40,000 dairy farmers and the nearly 3 million workers whose jobs are tied to dairy product manufacturing are experiencing limited markets and deeply depressed farm income levels. The new Class VII pricing system within the Canadian National Ingredient Strategy introduced in February 2017 has negatively impacted dairy farmers in Wisconsin by favoring Canadian milk products. Under the National Ingredient Strategy, Canadian milk product ingredients are priced at or below internationally competitive levels, undercutting Wisconsin dairy farmers not only in Canada but allowing dumped Canadian product to threaten market access for Wisconsin farmers globally. Read the letter here. -30 -
04.20.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Works to Support Veteran Small Business Owners and Entrepreneurs La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored the Veteran Entrepreneurship Training Act, a bipartisan bill that will support the Boots to Business (B2B) program within the Small Business Administration. “We need to do everything we can to support our veterans and give them the innovative tools they need to create meaningful, good-paying jobs here in Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Boots to Business program provides our veterans the important opportunity to create or grow their own small business after they return home from honorably serving our country.” Boots to Business and the Small Business Administration assists servicemembers, their families, and veterans open or run a small business by offering a two-day in-person entrepreneurship course followed by in-depth instruction through an eight-week online course. Since it began in 2013, more than 50,000 servicemembers and their spouses have participated in the program. -30-
04.18.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces Implementation of New Process for Permanently Disabled Veterans to Discharge Student Loan Debt Improved Veterans’ Benefit comes Following Passage of Rep. Kind’s bill, and Bipartisan Work with the Administration La Crosse – In response to a letter from U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and his colleagues, the Trump Administration recently agreed to introduce a new program to streamline student debt forgiveness for permanently disabled military veterans. This comes after U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bill, the Stop Taxing Death and Disability Act, was passed into law. “The last thing Wisconsin’s disabled veterans need is to be worried about significant student loan debt and paying unfair taxes on that debt,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m proud to announce that by working together, we’ve found a solution to this problem, and permanently disabled veterans can now have their student loans discharged without paying additional taxes. This is how it should be: Both sides working together to fix a problem that is hurting Wisconsin veterans and families.” In February, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind, and Peter Roskam (Ill.), and U.S. Sens. Coons (Del.), Portman (Ohio), King (Maine), Collins (Maine) and Gardner (Colo.) sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin, and Acting Commissioner of Social Security Nancy Berryhill, demanding they partner to discharge the student loans of students who have died, or are eligible to claim total and permanent disability. In response, the Trump Administration announced a new, streamlined process to ensure that eligible disabled veterans will receive notification that they are now able to apply to discharge their loans. Rep. Kind’s Stop Taxing Death and Disability Act ensures that an individual’s gross income does not include any student debt discharged as a result of an individual’s death or total and permanent disability. This exception would also apply to the 390,000 borrowers that are eligible for this loan forgiveness but have yet to receive it. If you believe you may be eligible for this improved benefit, contact Rep. Kind’s Eau Claire office at 715-831-9214 for assistance. -30-
04.17.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Congress to Protect Conservation Programs in the 2018 Farm Bill La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the House Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry to reinstate the Conservation Stewardship Program within the 2018 Farm Bill. Under the recently released Committee text of the 2018 Farm Bill, the Conservation Stewardship Program funding will be eliminated. “Our farmers in western and central Wisconsin rely on conservation programs in the Farm Bill to give them the knowledge and opportunity they need to grow and sustain healthy farms,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee celebrate Earth Day this weekend, I hope they consider the damaging effect eliminating conservation programs will have on our natural resources and farm land.” “The Conservation Stewardship Program is unique in that it encourages innovation for those of us that are working to conserve our land,” said Harriet Behar, of Gays Mills. “In my own experience, the program helped me improve what I was already doing on my farm, and helped me create a healthier farm through new, innovative practices. Conservation is not a static practice; it needs to be constantly improved.” The Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) helps preserve over 70 million acres of working farmland and gives farmers the opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge from experts on how to improve soil, water and air quality on their farms. Read the letter here. -30-
04.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Bill to Help Servicemembers and their Families with Taxes Bill will create exclusive communication lines at IRS for Servicemembers and their families to answer questions about taxes La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and U.S. Rep. Tim Walz introduced the Military Taxpayer Assistance Act, which establishes a year-round dedicated toll-free IRS telephone line to answer questions military taxpayers and their families have about their taxes. “The brave men and women that serve in our armed forces often face unnecessary challenges when completing their taxes,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We need to set our military members and their families up for success, and provide every possible resource to them ahead of tax day.” “Helping our warriors and their families navigate their uniquely complex tax issues is the least we can do for those who sacrifice so much for our country,” said Rep. Tim Walz. “This commonsense bill will help provide our service members and their loved ones the peace of mind they deserve when working to meet their tax obligations.” There are about 1.3 million active duty servicemembers and over 800,000 Reserves and National Guard personnel in the United States. Currently, the IRS does not have employees assigned exclusively to assist servicemembers or dedicated telephone lines for military taxpayers to call with questions. Because of the unique tax issues and challenging situations they face, members of the military and their families often need specialized assistance in meeting their tax obligations and need specialized assistance. The bill will also create a special unit within the IRS, staffed by veterans, to develop and conduct outreach, create education materials, and provide assistance to current servicemembers, including National Guard and Reservists. -30-
04.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Votes for Balanced Budget Amendment La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted for the Balanced Budget Amendment. His statement is below: “The reckless bills that President Trump just signed, including the $1.3 trillion budget, combined with the recent $1.5 trillion tax bill, and the over half-trillion dollars in increased interest payments will bankrupt America,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “With 10 thousand Baby Boomers retiring every day, it’s vital that we instill a sense of fiscal responsibility in Congress.” The Balanced Budget Amendment would add a budget rule to the Constitution that would ensure federal spending does not exceed federal income. The amendment would also make it unconstitutional for Congress to pass a budget that would run an annual budget deficit. According to a recent report by the Congressional Budget Office, the federal debt is projected to rise by 43% throughout the next decade. From 2021 to 2028, deficits will average nearly 5% of the total economy, which is higher than any point in our history since WWII, other than during the recession. -30-
04.08.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Announces Winners of 2018 Congressional Art Competition La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and his wife, Tawni, held a reception honoring the participants of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Rep. Kind also announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition 1st Place: Hannah Butts, La Farge High School Title of Artwork: A Friend to All, an Enemy to None 2nd Place: Emily Jacobs, La Farge High School Title of Artwork: Hot Spring, Arkansas 3rd Place: Caitlyn Brockman, Tomah High School Title of Artwork: Trapped with Chaos 4th Place: Abbey Jacobs, La Farge High School Title of Artwork: Amongst the Foliage “Our students in western and central Wisconsin have some of the best talent in the country,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Tawni and I always enjoy seeing the amazing art our students create every year. I’m proud to see art hanging in the Capitol and my offices that was created here in Wisconsin.” The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. The second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and fourth place pieces will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. A photo of the winning entry is attached.
04.05.2018	U.S. Reps. Ron Kind and Whip Steny Hoyer Discuss Job Opportunities in Wisconsin Manufacturing Facility Tour and Discussion on Job Growth in Conjunction with Whip Hoyer’s Third Make It In America Listening Tour Eau Claire, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Whip Steny Hoyer toured Culimeta-Saveguard with Eau Claire-area manufacturers and staff of the Manufacturing Outreach Center at the University of Wisconsin-Stout. While touring the manufacturing plant, they discussed the importance of creating good-paying local jobs, supporting small and large-scale manufacturing, and partnering with businesses and manufacturing technology centers to provide education opportunities to students across central and western Wisconsin. “We’re glad to hear about the many innovative ways Eau Claire and Wisconsin communities are creating new opportunities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Wisconsin manufacturers are economic drivers in our communities. Working on policies that level the playing field is critical to helping businesses create jobs here at home and growing our local economy.” “I am pleased to be in western Wisconsin on the third Make It In America listening tour to hear directly from Wisconsinites on the economic challenges and opportunities in their communities and how the federal government can promote economic security for them and their families,” said Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. “The listening sessions here in Wisconsin and others across the country will help us build an economic agenda that responds directly to what we’ve heard and that will create jobs and grow the economy.” The tour and discussion with local manufacturers was in conjunction with Whip Steny Hoyer’s Make It In America Listening Tour. The Make It In America plan focuses on identifying economic challenges and seizing new economic opportunities. While in Eau Claire, Rep. Kind and Whip Hoyer also held a roundtable discussion on education priorities with students attending UW-Eau Claire, met with local elementary, middle and high school teachers, and attended a luncheon hosted by the Eau Claire Chamber of Commerce.
04.02.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Wisconsin Elections Commission to Protect Elections from Future Foreign Interference Comes after reports that Wisconsin is using equipment vulnerable to hacking La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Wisconsin Elections Commission to address a series of concerns regarding the security of Wisconsin election systems, including voting equipment and software used across western and central Wisconsin. “Voting and representation is fundamental to this nation’s beliefs, and a secure voting process is an integral element to the democratic process,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Wisconsinites should know that their vote is secure, and that the state is taking every step possible to ensure our elections never face foreign interference again.” This comes after cybersecurity experts testified before House and Senate Committees about the numerous security shortcomings with voting equipment, and a recent New York Times report exposed many voting machines contain particularly vulnerable software. Experts have warned that voting equipment used by precincts throughout the country, including Wisconsin, are vulnerable to hacking, even if it is not directly connected to the internet. Rep. Ron Kind called on Meagan Wolfe, Interim Administrator for the Wisconsin Elections Commission, to answer several questions regarding which precincts in Wisconsin are using equipment that could potentially be compromised by adversarial foreign actors and the Wisconsin Elections Commission’s plan to secure these systems. The letter also requested that Ms. Wolfe elaborate on the state’s plan to use federally appropriated funds to strengthen Wisconsin’s elections systems. A response is requested by April 30th, 2018. Read the letter here. -30-
03.20.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Returns $102,109.57 to Taxpayers From Annual Office Budget Kind has returned nearly $2 million to pay down the debt La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that he is returning $102,109.57 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the national debt. Rep. Kind has found savings in his congressional budget every year since taking office and has returned nearly $2 million to taxpayers, to date. “Ever since my time investigating wasteful government spending programs for Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece Award, I have worked to find ways to save the money of hardworking Wisconsinites,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I treat my office budget the same way thousands of Wisconsinites approach their family budgets: with care. I work to ensure my office is using our hard-earned tax dollars efficiently to maximize savings. This year, I am proud to announce that my office was able to return $102,109.57 to pay down the national debt. In total, I have given back nearly $2 million to date.” Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Ron Kind has continuously worked to promote fiscal responsibility. “I recognize that this is a small part of the federal budget, but savings starts at home. With the rate we’re spending today, our children and grandchildren will be stuck with our unpaid bills and long-term national debt,” said Rep. Ron Kind. This week, Congress is scheduled to consider a new spending bill that will cost taxpayers $1.2 trillion. -30-
03.19.2018	Rep. Ron Kind fights for full funding of veterans safety and assistance programs Leads bipartisan push for full funding of the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, to ensure the problems that happened at the Tomah VA never happen again La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined U.S. Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) in a bipartisan letter to the Appropriations Committee requesting full funding and support for the continued implementation of the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which was passed into law in 2016. “The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act has made important improvements in addressing the opioid epidemic by giving veterans and their families the tools they need and the accountability they deserve,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am calling for the continued funding of the programs created under the PROMISE Act, so our veterans can receive the best care and support possible, and to ensure that the tragedies that occurred at the Tomah VA never happen again.” The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act was named in honor of Jason Simcakoski, a Wisconsin veteran who tragically lost his life at the Tomah V.A. Medical Center. The legislation contains improvements to a number of problems with pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, and improves patient advocacy. It also established an independent Office of Patient Advocacy within the office of the Under Secretary for Health. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act on November 18, 2015. The bill was signed into law on July 22, 2016. Read the letter here. -30-
03.15.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Announces Gallery Opening for 2018 Congressional Art Competition La Crosse – La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced the UW-La Crosse Center for the Arts will showcase the 22nd Annual Congressional Art Competition exhibit from Thursday, March 22 to Sunday, April 8. The exhibit is free and open to the public. Organized by Rep. Ron Kind and his wife, Tawni, this event showcases art created by high school artists from throughout western and central Wisconsin. “Tawni and I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition every year,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Our students in western and central Wisconsin have amazing talent, and it always makes me proud to see art from Wisconsin hanging in my offices and in the U.S. Capitol.” The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and fourth place pieces will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. A reception to recognize the students and unveil the winning pieces of art will be held at the UW-La Crosse Center for the Arts Gallery on Sunday, April 8 at 1:00PM. All participants, their families, teachers and the public are invited to attend. -30-
03.13.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on USDA Secretary to Protect Wisconsin Farmers from Trade Retaliation European Union has promised to retaliate following steel and aluminum tariffs La Crosse – This week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue to protect Wisconsin farmers, and inform Congress of efforts the Department would take if retaliatory tariffs by the European Union (EU) are implemented in response to President Trump’s tariffs on steel and aluminum. “Farmers and companies across Wisconsin are reaching out to me about their concerns of the President’s tariff on steel and aluminum,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Agriculture Secretary Perdue needs to start preparing now if the European Union and other nations retaliate against these short-sighted and harmful trade policies and work to find a solution to protect our farmers from being casualties of this trade war.” Several Wisconsin exports are targeted for retaliatory tariffs by the European Union (EU), including Wisconsin dairy and cranberries. The EU is the top export destination for United States cranberries and Wisconsin is the top producer of cranberries in the world. The United States also exports $1 billion in dairy products annually. Both markets are experiencing a trade surplus. A disruption in the marketplaces for cranberries and dairy could severely impact rural economies throughout Wisconsin. Read the letter here. -30-
03.12.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Helps Create and Grow Apprenticeship Programs La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the American Apprenticeship Act, which will help create and expand tuition assistance programs for students interested in hands-on work experience in Wisconsin. “As I travel across Wisconsin, I often hear about the benefit of hands-on training, and the leg up it gives our students as they start applying for jobs and enter the workforce,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Easier access to apprenticeships will give our students the tools and expertise they need to find good-paying jobs here in Wisconsin.” The funds provided under the American Apprenticeship Act would be used to alleviate the burden of tuition and fees, textbooks and equipment costs, and other required educational materials for job training programs. The American Apprenticeship Act is included in Rep. Ron Kind’s Education Action Plan. More information on the PATH (Preparation, Affordability, Training, High-Demand) Education Action Plan can be found here. -30-
03.08.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Congress to Hold Hearings on Impacts of Steel and Aluminum Tariffs La Crosse - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Ways and Means, Armed Services, and Foreign Affairs Committees to immediately hold a series of hearings on the impacts of President Trump’s recently announced steel and aluminum tariffs. Rep. Kind was joined by fellow New Democrat Coalition Representatives Rick Larsen and Gregory W. Meeks. Reps. Kind, Larsen and Meeks serve on the Ways and Means, Foreign Affairs, and Armed Services committees, respectively. “While China’s overcapacity of steel is a problem that needs to be addressed, the proposed actions by the Administration would likely do more harm than good. The consequence of price increases on metals and retaliation would be widespread across the state, and could threaten jobs in industries and businesses Wisconsin is proud of, including Wisconsin dairy, cranberries, breweries and Harley Davidson,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “We have seen time and time again that everybody loses in a trade war. Congress must assert its Constitutional role over trade policy and fully evaluate the costs and benefits of such an action.” A copy of the letter is attached here.
03.07.2018	Rep. Kind Announces $5 Million Grant to the City of Eau Claire Grant will help build new transit transfer center Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the city of Eau Claire received a $5 million grant from the Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program. The grant will be used to build a transit transfer center in downtown Eau Claire, and add four new buses to the Eau Claire Transit system. “Eau Claire’s busy and constantly expanding downtown is a magnet for small businesses, tourism, and outdoor recreation,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am excited to announce that Eau Claire has received this very competitive grant, and look forward to watching the new transit center help Eau Claire area businesses and commuters connect with the community.” “Our booming downtown and growing city looks forward to the addition of a new transit transfer center in downtown,” said Dale Peters, Eau Claire City Manager. The city is very excited to receive this grant, which will allow us to improve the public transportation system for those who rely on the service in Eau Claire." The timing of construction is still being discussed by the city of Eau Claire. -30-
03.02.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Celebrates “Read Across America” Day with Longfellow Elementary School 2nd Graders Eau Claire – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind read to 2nd grade students at Longfellow Elementary School for Read Across America Day. Read Across America is an annual reading motivation program that gives students, teachers and families reading-themed resources and activities, and celebrates author Dr. Seuss’s birthday. “An early love of reading is the first step to success for our students,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’ll always cherish the memories Tawni and I made reading to our boys when they were young, and hope the kids and teachers celebrating “Read Across America” day in central and western Wisconsin have as much fun as I had reading today.” A photo of Rep. Kind reading is attached. -30-
02.28.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Reiterates Call to Ensure the Security of Wisconsin Voting System Comes following silence from Department of Homeland Security regarding integrity of Wisconsin Elections Systems La Crosse – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement, following a report from NBC News alleging U.S. intelligence officials knew Russian operatives compromised the election databases or website from seven states, including Wisconsin, prior to the 2016 election, but did not communicate the breach to the states involved: “It is long past due for our Commander in Chief to order our agencies to take all appropriate steps to counter Russia’s, or any other country’s, attempt to interfere with our elections, and communicate past and current threats to any vulnerable states,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “So far, President Trump has refused to do so.” Nearly two weeks ago, Rep. Kind wrote to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen requesting that DHS immediately tell Wisconsin officials if the state was one of the states the Russians successfully penetrated during the 2016 election, and work with the state to protect our voting systems from foreign attacks. A response from DHS Secretary Nielsen has not been received. Read the letter here. Earlier this year the Department of Homeland Security confirmed that Russia successfully targeted the voting systems of 21 states, including Wisconsin, during the 2016 election. DHS recently confirmed that a number of the states targeted were successfully breached, but has not revealed what states were penetrated or the extent of the interference. The Wisconsin Elections Commission refutes claims that Russian hackers breached Wisconsin elections systems, and confirmed the DHS never notified the state about a potential breach. -30-
02.27.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Works to Override FCC’s Vote and Preserve Net Neutrality Introduces Resolution to Protect a Free and Open Internet La Crosse - Today, Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bicameral Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval, which will override the Federal Communications Commission’s ruling limiting the free and open internet and reinstate the 2015 net neutrality rules. “Wisconsin small businesses, schools and families depend on a free and open internet,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud to stand up to the FCC on behalf of the people of Wisconsin, and demand that the internet access we rely on stays open and affordable for everyone.” In December, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to dismantle the 2015 regulations that allowed the FCC to prevent internet providers from blocking or slowing down certain websites, and charging customers extra fees. The Congressional Review Act (CRA) resolution of disapproval would overturn the FCC’s recent decision, and protect the free and open internet. Wisconsin ranks 32nd of America’s most connected states, with 1/5 of the state’s population considered “underserved” or with limited access to high-speed internet. Over 920,000 people in Wisconsin have access to only one internet provider, with 200,000 people living in communities without any wired internet providers. The FCC’s ruling to overturn net neutrality could have major cost and access implications for those living in underserved areas throughout the state. - 30 -
02.15.2018	Rep. Kind Urged Treasury Secretary Mnuchin to Get US Fiscal House in Order La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind during a hearing with US Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin urged Secretary Mnuchin to take immediate action to get the United States fiscal house in order. Earlier this week the Administration proposed $2 trillion in cuts to Medicare & Medicaid to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy and powerful special interests and an increase in government spending. “With over 70 million Baby Boomers beginning their retirement now is not the time to pay for increased government spending and tax cuts for the wealthy by making cuts to Medicare. If we do this, we are setting ourselves up for a financial fall, and there is nothing the Bank of China wants more. To avoid catastrophe the Administration needs to take steps to get our long-term debt down and put our fiscal house in order,” said Rep. Kind. Watch the video here. It has been reported that the US is set to borrow nearly $1 trillion this year, an 84 percent jump from last year. Rep. Kind has long supported plans that would institute a bipartisan approach to balancing the budget and solve the ongoing budget deficits. -30-
02.15.2018	Rep. Ron Kind Calls on Department of Homeland Security to Look into Security of Wisconsin Voting System Comes following indictment of 13 Russian Operatives for Interfering in 2016 election La Crosse, WI – This week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) requesting that DHS immediately let Wisconsin officials know if the state was one of the 21 states the Russians successfully penetrated during the 2016 election. With elections coming up in 2018 if Wisconsin’s election system was compromised state and local officials need to know so they can protect our democratic process and Wisconsin residents’ vote from foreign interference. “What makes our democracy work is the belief in a free and fair election process," said Rep. Kind. "We need to do everything in our power to ensure that our election process is protected against outside interference." Read the letter here. Earlier this year the Department of Homeland Security confirmed that Russia successfully targeted the voting systems of 21 states, including Wisconsin, during the 2016 election. DHS recently confirmed that a number of the states targeted were successfully breached, but has not releveled what states were penetrated or the extent of the interference. -30-
02.14.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Bill to Increase Access to Job Training Programs for Wisconsin Students Comes following meeting with Representatives from Wisconsin Technical Colleges La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Education and Workforce Innovation Act, which will encourage partnerships with students, schools, and businesses to bring training programs to Wisconsin communities. This morning he met with representatives and students from Chippewa Valley Technical College, Mid-State Technical College, Southwest Wisconsin Technical College, and Western Technical College to discuss the bill. “Our top priority must be providing young Wisconsinites with the skills they need to fill good-paying jobs. Many Wisconsin schools are doing great work providing students with hands-on experience, and I look forward to working with them to increase job training opportunities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “By bringing businesses and schools together to expand access to job training programs we give Wisconsin students the opportunity to earn a better life.” The bill will establish a grant program to encourage eligible businesses to start job training programs for high-demand industries, such as manufacturing. It will also provide students with customized training, hands-on experience, career development, and a path to employment after graduating. A photo of Rep. Ron Kind and representatives from the Wisconsin Technical College Board and students is attached. The Education and Workforce Innovation Act is included in Rep. Ron Kind’s Education Action Plan. More information on the PATH (Preparation, Affordability, Training, High-Demand) Education Action Plan can be found here. - 30 -
02.13.2018	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind Calls for Solution to IV Shortage in Wisconsin Wisconsin is facing an IV saline bag shortage in the midst of a flu outbreak La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Administration to find a solution to the shortage of IV saline bags that is affecting hospitals and patients throughout western and central Wisconsin. This comes as Wisconsin hospitals are dealing with a severe and widespread flu outbreak. “Patients and healthcare providers in western and central Wisconsin should never be worried about the availability of something as critical as an IV bag,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “In this bad flu season, I am calling on the Administration to make sure our hospitals and clinics are stocked with IV bags and prepared to give the best quality care to Wisconsinites.” A copy of the letter can be found here. Although a shortage of IV saline bags has been documented since 2014, the impact of Hurricane Maria and the exceptionally severe flu season have combined to intensify the IV shortage. According to the Wisconsin Department of Health Services, there have been nearly 5,000 hospitalizations in Wisconsin since last September. - 30 -
02.08.2018	Rep. Kind Votes Against Irresponsible Deficit Busting Budget We need to grow our economy not the national debt La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted against a budget bill that adds almost $400 billion to the national debt. The bill is the fifth short-term extension in as many months and will expire on March 23rd. “When I investigated many of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards for wasteful government spending I learned the importance of fiscal responsibility. Senator Proxmire would be horrified by this fiscally irresponsible budget that Congressional leadership and the Administration have put together,” said Rep. Kind. “We need to be growing our economy not our national debt. Our annual budget deficit is already close to $1 trillion. This reckless budget borrows $400 billion from the Bank of China while sticking our children and grandchildren with the bill.” Instead of passing a budget that raises the national debt Rep. Kind has long supported plans that would institute a bipartisan approach to balancing the budget and solve the ongoing budget deficits. This budget follows on the heels of a massive tax bill that will add over $2 trillion to the national debt over the next ten years. -30-
02.07.2018	Rep. Kind Introduces Education Action Plan to Expand Opportunity for Wisconsinites to Earn a Better Life La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced his Education Action Plan to expand opportunity for Wisconsinites to earn a better life. Rep. Kind’s plan equips Wisconsin students for success with preparation, affordability, training, and high-demand jobs. “As the son of a telephone repairman and school secretary, I couldn’t have afforded college without student loans, Pell Grants, and work-study. Instead of pulling the ladder up after us we need to be helping the next generation climb higher. My education plan will create a path to expand opportunity for Wisconsinites to earn a better life,” said Rep. Kind. The four main components of Rep. Kind’s Education Action Plan are: Preparation Give our rural schools and teachers the resources they need to prepare Wisconsin high school students for their next steps. Affordability Whatever education path Wisconsinites take, they need to have access to affordable financial aid programs to help pay for their education. The average student loan debt in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional district is over $27,000. Training With more jobs requiring hands-on experience that can only be attained through job training programs, it is important we find ways to make those programs affordable and accessible. High-Demand Receiving a degree or certificate is important, but we need to make sure that Wisconsinites have the training and skills they need to compete for the jobs that are in high-demand among employers. When Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act, later this year, Rep. Kind will work to get many of these proposals included in that bill. -30-
02.06.2018	Representatives for Congressman Kind to Hold Open Office Hours in All 18 Counties in WI-03 La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be holding open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District in February and March. “The most important part of my job is having an open and accessible office for the people of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I hope people will take advantage of these opportunities to share their thoughts and seek assistance with issues they have with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people having issues dealing with the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available during the dates, times and locations listed below. Rep. Kind’s office can also be reached by calling toll-free: 1-888-442-8040 or by visiting his website: kind.house.gov. Monday, February 26, 2018 8:00-9:00 A.M. Nekoosa City Hall—City Council Chambers 951 Market Street Nekoosa, WI 54457 10:00-11:00 A.M. Village of Port Edwards 201 Market St Port Edwards, WI 54469 10:00-11:00 A.M. River Falls City Hall—City Council Chambers 222 N. Lewis Street River Falls, WI 54022 12:00-1:00 P.M. McMillan Memorial Library 490 E. Grand Avenue Wisconsin Rapids, WI 54494 1:00-2:00 P.M. Durand City Hall—City Council Chambers 104 E. Main Street Durand, WI 54736 1:30-2:30 P.M. Lester Public Library 6550 Virginia Street Vesper, WI 54489 Tuesday, February 27, 2018 9:00-10:00 A.M. Hatch Public Library 111 W. State Street Mauston, WI 53948 10:00-11:00 A.M. Merrillan Village Hall—Council Chambers 101 S. Main Street Merrillan, WI 54754 10:30-11:30 A.M. New Lisbon Memorial Library 115 W. Park Street New Lisbon, WI 53950 12:30-1:30 P.M. Tomah City Hall 819 Superior Avenue Tomah, WI 54660 1:00-2:00 P.M. Fall Creek Village Hall—Board Room 122 E. Lincoln Avenue Fall Creek, WI 54742 2:30-3:30 P.M. Sparta Free Library 124 W. Main Street Sparta, WI 54656 Wednesday, February 28, 2018 8:00-9:00 A.M. Emy J’s Coffeehouse & Cafe 1009 First Street Stevens Point, WI 54481 10:00-11:00 A.M. Village of Plover 2400 Post Road Plover, WI 54467 10:00 -11:00 A.M. Holmen Village Hall, Room #2 421 South Main Street Holmen, WI 54636 10:00-11:00 A.M. Galesville Public Library—Community Room 16787 S. Main Street Galesville, WI 54630 11:00-Noon Boscobel Public Library, 1033 Wisconsin Avenue Boscobel, WI 53805 1:00-2:00 P.M. Rosholt Public Library 137 N. Main Street Rosholt, WI 54473 1:00-2:00 P.M. Fountain City Council Chambers 42 N. Main Street Fountain City, WI 54629 2:30-3:30 P.M. Lettie W. Jenson Library 278 N. Main Street Amherst, WI 54406 3:30-4:30 P.M. Hazel Green Municipal Hall 1610 Fairplay Street Hazel Green, WI 53811 Thursday, March 1, 2018 10:00-11:00 A.M. Adams Community Center 569 Ceadar Street Adams, WI 53910 10:00-11:00 A.M. Chippewa Falls Public Library 105 W. Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 54729 11:00-Noon Kickapoo Valley Reserve S3661 State Highway 131 La Farge, WI 54639 1:00-2:00 P.M. Colfax Village Library 613 Main Street Colfax, WI 54730 1:30-2:30 P.M. Richland Center Municipal Building 450 S. Main Street Richland Center, WI 53581 Friday, March 2, 2018 11:30-12:30 P.M. Village of Gays Mills 16381 State Highway 131 Gays Mills, WI 54631 1:30-2:30 P.M. Wauzeka Village Hall 213 E. Front Street Wauzeka, WI 53826
12.13.2017	Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan Small Businesses Add Value for Employees (SAVE) Act of 2017, which will encourage more small businesses to offer retirement savings plans to their employees. “A comfortable retirement is something everyone seeks to achieve – whether they work for a big business or a small business. Unfortunately, many small businesses don’t offer retirement savings plans to employees because it can be complicated and costly. By taking steps to make it easier for Wisconsin small businesses to offer their employees a retirement plan we level the playing field and set workers and businesses up for future success,” said Rep. Kind. The bill introduced by Rep. Ron Kind (D-Wisc.) and Dave Reichert (R-Wash.) removes the “common bond” requirement, enabling small businesses to pool together, regardless of industry, to offer retirement plans to their employees. Rep. Kind has been active on this issue since 2008.
11.29.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Exploring the Future of Work Act, to review the workforce challenges that an increase in automation and innovation present. The bill is a first step in helping make sure our workers are prepared and trained for the jobs innovation brings. “Over the years Wisconsinites have seen firsthand how technology and innovation has changed our everyday lives. Automation is showing no sign of slowing down, and it is only a matter of time until it changes the jobs available to our workers. We can’t afford to be unprepared. By starting to look at the challenge and how we find solutions we can prepare our workers for the jobs of the future,” said Rep. Kind. The bill requests the National Academies to conduct a study to assess demographic, training, technology, and workforce needs; identify industry sectors likely to be significantly impacted by automation; and provide recommendations for policy solutions. The National Academies would then submit a report to Congress on their findings.
11.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Senate leadership to include his Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) reauthorization. The bill could open up the flood insurance market and allow more private businesses to compete and possibly lower prices for consumers. Currently, the primary option for property owners needing to purchase flood insurance is the National Flood Insurance Program, which can be costly. “We are seeing an increase in severe weather and flood damage in communities across the country, including western and central Wisconsin. For many in flood zones, like La Crosse, the cost of flood insurance is a necessary but significant financial burden. I hope the Senate will soon take up and pass my bill. It is time we give options to the Wisconsinites and Americans who are required to purchase flood insurance,” said Rep. Kind. Find a copy of the letter here. Rep. Kind continues to work with homeowners, property owners, community leaders, and local governments to try and ease the financial burden of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
11.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined VA White House Senior Advisor Jake Leinenkugel and Tomah VA Medical Center Director Victoria Brahm at the Tomah VA to attend the Foundational Services event. The event brought together community groups, VA health care professionals, and veterans to highlight alternative health practices and services available to Wisconsin veterans. “Many Wisconsin veterans I talk with discuss how challenging it is to transition back into civilian life. It is critical that we let our veterans know that they are not alone and there are a number of VA and community resources available to help them, which is why things like the Foundational Services event are so useful. It was great to see so many Wisconsinites come together to ensure our veterans get the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Kind. Recently, Rep. Kind held town hall events throughout Wisconsin to hear directly from veterans about the challenge of transitioning back to civilian life and their experiences with the Department of Veterans Affairs.
11.21.2017	Today, key sportsman groups endorsed Rep. Kind’s bipartisan Chronic Wasting Disease Management Act. The bill will support state and tribal efforts to develop and implement management strategies as well as support research regarding the causes of chronic wasting disease and methods to control the further spread of the disease. CWD positive deer have been found in or within 10 miles of Grant, Vernon, Crawford, Richland, Monroe, Juneau, Adams, Portage, and Wood counties. Below are comments from groups who have endorsed the bill: Wisconsin Wildlife Federation “The funding and help with research outlined in Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner’s legislation would give the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources the kind of support it needs as it grapples with the spread of chronic wasting disease in the state,” said George Meyer, executive director of the Wisconsin Wildlife Federation. “Wisconsin’s deer herds are critically important to the state’s more than 600,000 gun hunters and 225,000 bow hunters. They represent an estimated $1 billion in annual economic benefits for the state.” Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation “The Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation (CSF) has long recognized that increased attention to, and funding for, regular screening and testing of cervids at the state level is necessary to ensure a timely response is possible in the event of a Chronic Wasting Disease outbreak,” said Brent Miller CSF’s Senior Director, Northeastern States. “We commend the leadership of Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus member, Congressman Kind, and Congressman Sensenbrenner on this critical wildlife management issue.” National Wildlife Federation “Chronic Wasting Disease poses a grave threat to North America’s deer, elk, and moose herds, and the hunters and communities that depend on them,” said Collin O’Mara, President and CEO of the National Wildlife Federation. “Yet as this terrible disease spreads rapidly across our country, it’s received neither the urgent attention nor sufficient resources from Washington to combat it. That is about to change thanks to the leadership of two great sportsmen, Representatives Ron Kind and Jim Sensenbrenner, who understand how serious this threat and why immediate action is needed. The National Wildlife Federation enthusiastically supports their bill to provide states and tribes the support required to respond to this critical threat to America’s wildlife.” Chronic Wasting Disease Alliance “In the last decade, while CWD has relentlessly spread to new areas and increased in prevalence, the funding and resources to fight it have dwindled,” said Matt Dunfee, Program Coordinator for the CWD Alliance. “Given that CWD may pose the greatest risk to the sustainability of North America’s deer, elk, and moose populations, it is beyond vital that we ramp up the funding and resources needed to manage this disease. This proposed legislation goes a long way in getting the wildlife management community the tools they need to fight CWD at a level appropriate to the severity of the disease.” National Deer Alliance “At the North American Deer Summit, held earlier this year in Austin, TX, the states represented made it clear that more funding was needed for CWD monitoring and research. We are glad that our coalition of conservation groups was able to work with Congressman Kind and Congressman Sensenbrenner to craft this important legislation,” said the National Deer Alliance. Quality Deer Management Association “The importance of healthy white-tailed deer populations to the future of wildlife conservation and our hunting heritage cannot be overemphasized,” said QDMA CEO Brian Murphy. “Expenditures by whitetail hunters account for nearly half of the entire U.S. hunting economy which employs nearly 500,000 Americans, contributes tens of billions to our economy, and funds significant portions of state wildlife agency budgets for both game and nongame species.” Association of Fish & Wildlife Agencies “Chronic wasting disease is a fatal neurological disease that affects members of the deer family, and may be one of the biggest challenges in modern wildlife conservation history,” stated Virgil Moore, President of the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and Director of Idaho Fish and Game. “This legislative package, if passed, will move forward and strengthen state and tribal chronic wasting disease management strategies by providing critical funding to help protect our nation’s wildlife.” With 88% of Wisconsin’s 763,384 hunters participating in deer hunting and an economic impact of $2.5 billion, it is critical that action is taken to prevent the spread of chronic wasting disease. The bill is co-sponsored by Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). It has three main components. Authorizing funding to state and tribal agencies responsible for wildlife management to implement management strategies to address CWD. Directing USDA to make grants to expand and accelerate applied research on CWD. Directing USDA and the Department of Interior to work cooperatively with the states to conduct research and implement state CWD response plans to reduce the spread and prevalence of the disease.
11.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced he is introducing the bipartisan Chronic Wasting Disease Management Act. The bill will support state and tribal efforts to develop and implement management strategies as well as support research regarding the causes of chronic wasting disease and methods to control the further spread of the disease. CWD positive deer have been found in or within 10 miles of Grant, Vernon, Crawford, Richland, Monroe, Juneau, Adams, Portage, and Wood counties. “As an avid hunter who has passed the tradition down to my sons I know how important maintaining a healthy deer herd is to both Wisconsin’s heritage and economy. Chronic wasting disease has the potential to devastate deer herds, and it is time we bring hunters, scientists, and officials together to create a comprehensive plan to manage and prevent the spread of the disease,” said Rep. Kind. With 88% of Wisconsin’s 763,384 hunters participating in deer hunting and an economic impact of $2.5 billion, it is critical that action is taken to prevent the spread of chronic wasting disease. The bill is co-sponsored by Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI). It has three main components. Authorizing funding to state and tribal agencies responsible for wildlife management to implement management strategies to address CWD. Directing USDA to make grants to expand and accelerate applied research on CWD. Directing USDA and the Department of Interior to work cooperatively with the states to conduct research and implement state CWD response plans to reduce the spread and prevalence of the disease. The following organizations have endorsed the bill Wisconsin Wildlife Federation, Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, Chronic Wasting Disease Alliance, National Deer Alliance, Quality Deer Management Association, and Association of Fish & Wildlife Agencies.
11.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Better Jobs for Veterans Act. The bill provides veterans and their spouses the training and opportunity they need to find good-paying jobs. “Many Wisconsin veterans I talk with discuss how challenging it is to transition back into civilian life. One of the best things that we can do to help with the transition is to make it easier for them to find a meaningful job that gives them self-fulfillment and financial security for their family. With the bipartisan Better Jobs for Veterans Act, we bring together local businesses and job training programs to help veterans find good-paying jobs,” said Rep. Kind. The bill is composed of four main parts. Make permanent the Veterans Retraining Assistance Program, which provides training assistance to unemployed veterans between the ages of 35 and 60 who are no longer eligible for the GI Bill. Improve recordkeeping and information sharing regarding military training performed by members of the Armed forces that translate to civilian jobs. Extend the Work Opportunity Tax Credit to members of the Ready Reserve, National Guard, and military spouses. Make the Work Opportunity Tax Credit permanent. With the current Tax Bill cutting the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC), it is more important than ever to take action to protect it.
11.09.2017	Today, the House voted to advance a bill that gives large tax cuts to powerful special interests at the expense of Wisconsin’s working families, family farmers, seniors, and veterans. Rep. Kind voted against the bill. “There is no question that our current tax code is in need of reform. I believe that this Tax Bill isn’t the right kind of reform Wisconsinites need. In addition to sticking our children and grandchildren with over 2.3 trillion dollars in debt, it gives large tax cuts to the very wealthy and powerful special interests at the expense of Wisconsin families, veterans, and farmers.” During the markup of the bill Rep. Kind offered amendments aimed at helping veterans get jobs, ensuring fiscal responsibility, supporting family farmers, and protecting places of worship from being politicized. All amendments were blocked by Congressional Republicans. “If my colleagues are willing, I stand ready to work on a completely paid-for bipartisan plan to simplify the tax code and cut taxes for hardworking Wisconsinites.” Congressional Republicans continued to make last minute changes that will impact every single person in America. The Senate is expected to pass their own tax bill and then both bills will go to a conference to be reconciled
11.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Acting Administrator of Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) requesting an update on actions they are taking to crack down on the importation of goods produced by exploitative labor. “It is the responsibility of the United States to lead the way in setting labor standards on the products we accept, including prohibiting the importation of products based on the exploitation of child labor, forced labor, or slave labor. I am disappointed to see that the Administration has not taken any action to seize goods produced by forced labor and hope that CBP will take immediate steps to increase enforcement,” Rep. Kind stated. Last year, Rep. Kind had legislation signed into law to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 and close an 85-year loophole that allowed the importation of goods produced using slave labor. Following the bill being signed into law in February 2016, CBP issued the first four detention orders for goods suspected to be produced by forced labor in over twenty years.
11.01.2017	National Obesity Care Week is recognized during the first week of November when individuals and organizations from across the country raise awareness about the serious chronic disease of obesity. Below is U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s statement on National Obesity Care Week: “This week reminds us that there is still work to be done to make the healthy choice the easy choice for families. Easier access to the tools and education to prevent and treat obesity; affordable, nutritious food to promote a balanced diet; and an increased emphasis on physical activity to maintain our overall health are critical to our quality of life and the economic success of our country. I urge my fellow Members to join me in recognizing obesity as a serious, chronic disease and work towards improving access to evidence-based tools for chronic weight management.”
11.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced legislation to assist the Department of Veterans Affairs in recruiting talented health care professionals to Wisconsin VA facilities. In recent years a number of VA clinics, including ones in Wisconsin Rapids and Wausau, have been forced to turn away patients due to staffing shortages. The Tomah VA Medical Center has also been forced to cut back services due to problems recruiting physicians. This legislation would help fix these problems. “In western and central Wisconsin we have seen a number of VA facilities turn our veterans away and stop offering vital services due to a shortage of physicians and health care professionals. That is unacceptable. This is a matter of fairness to our veterans – they served our country, and they deserve proper health care. Through more recruiting tools to bring good health care professionals to Wisconsin, we can better fulfill our promise of quality health care to our veterans,” said Congressman Kind. “VA facilities in Eastern North Carolina and rural areas across the nation have greatly suffered from shortages in primary doctors and other health care professionals,” said Congressman Jones. “As the representative for over 85,000 veterans, I’ve seen the grave effects these shortages have had on them. That is why Congressman Kind and I have proudly introduced legislation that will allow VA facilities and state veterans’ homes to compete for National Health Service Corps fellows and recruit talented physicians to the areas that need help the most. It’s time we properly serve those who have served us.” This bill designates the Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs). By making this designation, it allows these sites to compete for National Health Service Corps fellows, which is a program that pays student loan repayment or gives scholarships to doctors, dentists, mental health professionals, nurses, or medical students who pledge to practice in a HPSA for at least two years.
10.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind encouraged Wisconsinites to take advantage of the open enrollment period for health care. The open enrollment period will last from November 1st to December 15th. During this time Wisconsinites can get health care coverage or make changes to their health care plan by visiting healthcare.gov. “I encourage Wisconsinites to take advantage of the open enrollment period from Nov. 1st to Dec. 15th to get health care coverage or make changes to their current health care plan. People can find affordable plans with no-cost preventative care and may be eligible for assistance with paying their premiums. For instance, with the available tax credits, a Wisconsin family of four could purchase a plan for $106. If someone is confused about how to sign up my office is here to help,” said Rep. Kind. This year the Administration cut the period for people to sign up in half and took away many resources to inform people that open enrollment is going on. Given the lack of information, it is important to let people know that they must take action to re-enroll or get coverage by December 15 or risk not having coverage in 2018 and having to pay the penalty. It is also important to know that premium tax credits are still available to help people afford plans, and some may see their tax credit increase this year. In addition, Wisconsin seniors can make changes to their Medicare health and drug plans from October 15 to December 7. If you have questions about signing up or want to talk through your options with a trained professional, call 1-800-318-2596 or visit localhelp.healthcare.gov to make a one-on-one appointment. If you have questions about how to access resources or need to be put in touch with the right person to help you sign up, you can call Rep. Kind’s office at 1-608-782-2558 or visit kind.house.gov.
10.31.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District during November. Given the lack of information, it is important to let people know that they must take action to re-enroll or get health coverage by December 15 or risk not having coverage in 2018 and having to pay the penalty. “It is important to me, and to my office, that we are always available and working to help the residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As Wisconsinites begin to take advantage of the open enrollment period to get health care coverage or make changes to their current health care plan, I hope people utilize my office to access resources and ability to get in contact with the right person to help them sign up and get covered.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people having issues dealing with the Healthcare Open Enrollment Process, as well as with the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, November 13, 2017 Wood County 8:00-9:00 A.M. Nekoosa City Hall City Council Chambers 951 Market St. Nekoosa, WI Wood County 10:00-11:00 A.M. Village of Port Edwards 201 Market Street Port Edwards, WI Wood County Noon-1:00 P.M. McMillan Memorial Library 490 East Grand Ave. WI Rapids, WI Wood County 1:30-2:30 P.M. Lester Public Library 6550 Virginia Street Vesper, WI Pierce County 10:30-11:30 A.M. Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 54021 Pepin County 1:00-2:00 P.M. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 Tuesday, November 14, 2017 Juneau County 10:30-11:30 A.M. Elroy Public Library 501 2nd Main St. Elroy, WI 53929 Juneau County Noon-1:00 P.M. New Lisbon Memorial Library 115 W. Park St. New Lisbon, WI 53950 Adams County 2:30-3:30 P.M. Adams Community Center 569 Cedar St. Adams, WI 53910 La Crosse County 10:00-11:00 A.M. Holmen Village Hall Board Room #2 421 South Main Street Holmen, WI 54636 Jackson County Black River Falls 10:30-11:30 A.M. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 Trempealeau County 1:00-2:00 P.M. Trempealeau County Office Building – Packer Room 36245 Main Street – Lower Level Whitehall, WI 54773 Wednesday, November 15th, 2017 Portage County 9:00-10:00 A.M. Rosholt Library 137 North Main St. Rosholt, WI 54473 Portage County 10:30-11:00 A.M. Plover Library 2151 Roosevelt Dr. Plover, WI 54467 Portage County 2:00-3:00 P.M. Lettie W. Jensen Library 278 N. Main St. Amherst, WI 54406 Vernon County 10:00-11:00 A.M. Ontario Public Library 313 Main Street Ontario, WI 54651 Vernon County Noon-1:00 P.M. Hillsboro Public Library 819 High Avenue Hillsboro, WI 54634 Richland County 2:00-3:00 P.M. Brewer Public Library 325 North Central Avenue Richland Center, WI 53581 Thursday, November 16, 2017 Monroe County 9:30-10:30 A.M. City of Tomah City Council Chambers 819 Superior Ave. Tomah, WI 54660 Monroe County 11:30 A.M.-12:30 P.M. City of Sparta City Council Chambers 201 W. Oak St. Sparta, WI 54656 Crawford County 10:30-11:30 A.M. Soldiers Grove Village Office 102 Passive Sun Drive Soldiers Grove, WI 54655 Grant County 1:00-2:00 P.M. Cuba City City Hall 108 N. Main Street Cuba City, WI 53807 Monday, November 27, 2017 Buffalo County 10:00-11:00 A.M. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 Dunn County 2:00 - 3:00 P.M. Dunn County Administration Building County Board Room – Room 122/124 800 Wilson Avenue Menomonie, WI 54751 Tuesday, November 28, 2017 Eau Claire County 9:00 - 10:00 A.M Augusta City Hall – Council Chambers 145 W. Lincoln Street Augusta, WI 54722 Chippewa County 11:00 A.M - Noon Chippewa Falls Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 54729
10.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind praised President Trump for signing into law the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act. The bill named in honor of a Wisconsin doctor passed the House with bipartisan support. “Although Dr. Kirkpatrick is no longer with us, today we honored his dedication to serving veterans and his courage to stand up for what was right. By passing the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act we want to ensure that the problems with intimidation and pain management in our VA health care system won’t happen again. I am glad that the President quickly signed this important bill into law,” said Rep. Kind. Watch video of Rep. Kind’s floor speech on the bill here. The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act will ensure that no one is retaliated against for coming forward with concerns about waste, fraud, and abuse at the VA. The bill offers a number of new protections for whistleblowers and will help ensure that supervisors found guilty of retaliation are held responsible for their actions.
10.26.2017	A report published in the National Journal found that in the current Congress U.S. Rep. Ron Kind ranks 2nd out of all 435 members when it comes to independence. This year he has co-sponsored 131 bipartisan bills. Below is the story:
10.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind met with United States Trade Representative, Ambassador Robert Lighthizer to discuss the ongoing NAFTA renegotiation and the impact leaving the agreement would have on Wisconsin’s dairy industry. “During my meeting with Ambassador Lighthizer I raised the biggest concern I am hearing from Wisconsin dairy farmers back home – losing access to the Mexico market would be catastrophic,” said Rep. Kind. “I told the Ambassador they need to increase outreach to agricultural communities. Our dairy farmers already operate on a thin margin, and they can’t afford the uncertainty the Administration is causing.” Mexico is by far dairy’s top export market – close to double our second largest market. If the U.S. were to pull out of NAFTA, the European Union would no doubt sweep in and impose barriers to Wisconsin dairy that would make it impossible for the United States to compete. Rep. Kind has long said that there is no doubt that NAFTA has some serious flaws that have negatively impacted Wisconsin workers, farmers, and business. However, it is important to recognize that Canada and Mexico are two of Wisconsin farmers' largest export markets and access to those markets must not be threatened.
10.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to FEMA calling on them to immediately reimburse Wisconsin communities for damage incurred during the September 2016 storms. Dozens of projects have since been completed to repair this damage. However, many of the towns and cities that funded these projects are still awaiting reimbursement from FEMA. “While responding to the recent disasters is of the utmost importance, FEMA must not fail to honor the commitments they made to Wisconsin communities after the September 2016 storms. Our rural communities, who already face tight budgets, should not be forced to cover these high bills,” said Rep. Kind. The Wisconsin counties with projects still awaiting reimbursement are Adams, Crawford, Juneau, La Crosse, Monroe, Richland, and Vernon. Rep. Kind and his office continue to work with residents, officials, and small businesses to make sure they are getting the resources they need to rebuild.
10.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored a resolution urging the United States Post Service to continue 6-day mail delivery. With the post office facing mounting financial troubles, some have proposed getting rid of 6-day mail delivery service and going down to 5-day delivery. “For many of us in rural areas, where mail is delayed, it is important to continue 6-day mail delivery. I will continue to urge the United States Post Office to look for savings in other places before they put Wisconsinites at risk of missing prescriptions and important bills and notices,” said Rep. Kind. H.Res.15 expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the United States Postal Service should take all appropriate measures to ensure the continuation of its 6-day mail delivery service.
10.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled a comprehensive protection plan developed with a River Advisory Council to address concerns and protect the Mississippi River for future generations. “The Mississippi River is vital to the health of the environment and our local economy. After working with my River Advisory Council I am proud to unveil a plan that will protect the Mississippi for future generations,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Given that the river has a total economic impact of over $580 billion and supports thousands of jobs we need to take proactive steps to protect the river by building better infrastructure and enacting smarter policies.” Rep. Kind’s Mississippi River Protection Plan consists of four main components: Creating jobs by supporting recreation, tourism and navigation Maintaining Railroad Safety Supporting the Upper Mississippi River Restoration Program Promoting Conservation in the Farm Bill Read the full plan here. Rep. Kind is the founder and co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Task Force, as well as a co-chair of the Congressional Mississippi River Caucus and the Congressional Wildlife Refuge Caucus. His work with these groups has made Mississippi River protection an essential part of his work in Congress.
10.12.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act, which passed the House with bipartisan support. The bill will now go to the President to be signed into law. “Although Dr. Kirkpatrick is no longer with us, today we honored his dedication to serving veterans and his courage to stand up for what was right. By passing the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act we want to ensure that the problems with intimidation and pain management in our VA health care system won’t happen again. I hope the President will quickly sign this bill into law,” said Rep. Kind. Watch video of Rep. Kind’s floor speech on the bill here. The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act will ensure that no one is retaliated against for coming forward with concerns about waste, fraud, and abuse at the VA. The bill offers a number of new protections for whistleblowers and will help ensure that supervisors found guilty of retaliation are held responsible for their actions.
10.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to House leadership calling on them to increase funding for the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development programs. President Trump’s budget proposal seeks to impose severe cuts to Rural Development programs. “Many of our rural communities in western and central Wisconsin face tight budgets and struggle to attract private investment, which is why funding for Rural Development programs, which create jobs and build critical infrastructure, is important,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The place to make budget cuts is not to Rural Development programs that our communities depend on. We need to work together to level the playing field for our residents, farmers, and small businesses in rural Wisconsin.” President Trump’s budget called for a 21% cut to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The cuts would completely eliminate the Rural Water and Wastewater loan and grant program, which has provided hundreds of millions of dollars in grants and loans to rural communities in Wisconsin. President Trump’s budget also calls for cuts to the Rural Business-Cooperative Service, which helps create jobs in rural areas of Wisconsin.
10.03.2017	Today, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in Gill v. Whitford. The case argues that Republican-drawn maps for Wisconsin's state assembly were impermissibly biased against Democrats. Over the coming months, the Supreme Court will consider whether a state’s legislative maps are so politically skewed to favor one party that they violate the Constitution. “I hope that today’s arguments in front of the Supreme Court is a step towards returning the power to Wisconsinites, by making sure it is them picking their representatives and not the other way around. However, it is not enough to depend on the Supreme Court’s decision. I have long advocated for an independent commission to draw legislative districts, which is the only way to take partisanship out of the process,” said Rep. Kind. For years Rep. Kind has fought to take politics completely out of the process. When the maps were redrawn in 2010, he strongly opposed the proposal and urged the Governor to veto it. Additionally, Rep. Kind has introduced the John Tanner Fairness and Independence in Redistricting Act to establish an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every ten years. Our neighbors in Iowa use this model, and it has worked very well for them.
10.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that La Crosse County received a $280,000 Adult Drug Court Discretionary Grant from the U.S. Department of Justice to combat opioid abuse in La Crosse County. The grant will provide funds for the La Crosse County drug court, and address opioid abuse reduction efforts in La Crosse. “In my meetings with families, law enforcement and local officials who are working to combat the drug crisis, one of the key topics we discuss is the need to provide more resources to help get those who are suffering from addiction the treatment they need,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “La Crosse has long lead the charge for drug-free streets with their drug treatment courts, and this grant will ensure that they continue to have the resources needed to help our community.” “La Crosse County works hard to ensure our neighborhoods are safe,” said Becky Spanjers, La Crosse Drug Court coordinator. “We are excited to use this grant to evaluate current practices designed to keep our community and neighbors safe and implement services to promote healthy family living for participants. ” The Adult Drug Court Discretionary Grant Program provides financial and technical assistance to states, state courts, local courts, units of local government, and Indian tribal governments to develop and implement drug courts that effectively integrate evidence-based substance abuse treatment, mandatory drug testing, sanctions and incentives, and transitional services in a judicially supervised court setting with jurisdiction over substance abusing offenders.
09.28.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Flood Insurance Market Parity passed the House. The bill would open up the flood insurance market and allow more private businesses to compete, lowering prices for consumers. Currently, the primary option for property owners needing to purchase flood insurance is the National Flood Insurance Program (NIFP), which can be costly. “For many in flood hazard areas, like La Crosse, the cost of flood insurance is a necessary but significant financial burden. Today, I am pleased we are one step closer to allowing Wisconsinites to shop around and find the best deal on flood insurance. I hope the Senate will soon take up and pass my bill. It is time we give options to the Wisconsinites and Americans who are required to purchase flood insurance,” said Rep. Kind. “NFIP is having real impacts on Midwest cities. Where flood hazard potential doesn’t match historic patterns of risk, homeowners and cities are sending enormous amounts of premiums out of the local economy. Money that could be used to rebuild and make more resilient urban America,” said Jason Gilman, Director of Planning and Development for the City of La Crosse. “La Crosse has over 1200 homes, 200 businesses and over $120M in real estate in the special flood hazard area. The city is looking at a severe economic downturn due to insurance premiums, burdening the city with the prospects of blight, poverty, and crime unless these areas can be positively affected by policy and investment. We greatly appreciate legislative consideration of special areas like La Crosse where historic repetitive loss are not proportionate to insurance rates.” Earlier this month Rep. Kind called on Congress to pass this bill. Following House passage, the bill will now go to the Senate. Rep. Kind continues to work with homeowners, property owners, community leaders, and local government to try and ease the financial burden of the National Flood Insurance Program.
09.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the La Crosse Regional Airport will receive a $1.7 million grant from the Department of Transportation to help make needed improvements. This grant will go towards helping improve runways. “Thousands of people across western Wisconsin depend on regional airports. This grant will go a long way towards helping the La Crosse Regional Airport ensure they can continue seamless operations and provide passengers the best experience,” said Rep. Kind. “This project will allow significant upgrades to critical airport infrastructure including the airport lighting system. Most of the airfield lighting will be upgraded to high efficiency LED’s allowing for better visibility for pilots, lower energy use, and less greenhouse gas emissions,” said Clinton Torp, Airport Director at La Crosse Regional Airport. The La Crosse Regional Airport will receive $1.7 million in grant funding to install perimeter fencing, install runway distance-to-go signs, reconstruct runway lighting, and reconstruct taxiway lighting.
09.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined a bipartisan group of House Ways and Means Committee members to discuss tax reform with President Trump. Below is his statement on the meeting: “Everyone can agree that our tax system is far too complicated and we need to work together to fix it. During today’s meeting, I discussed with the President that any proposal must level the playing field for Wisconsin small businesses, farmers, and working families. I also told the President that I would not support any plan that gives massive tax cuts to wealthy and powerful special interests while sticking our children and grandchildren with the bill.”
09.22.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind led a bipartisan coalition in calling on President Trump to continue honoring the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS). In recent weeks it has been reported that the Trump Administration is considering withdrawing from the agreement. A withdrawal from the agreement would cause American businesses, farmers and workers to face high barriers to selling their products while benefiting competitors in Asia and Europe. “The U.S. relationship with Korea could not be more important than it is today. Growing and maintaining robust trading relationships in East Asia is our best tool to ensure peace and prosperity not only on the Korean peninsula but here at home as well. It would be a grave error to withdraw from the agreement,” said Reps. Kind, Reichert, Dent, and Larsen. The following members signed on to the letter: Rep. Kind (D-WI), Rep. Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Dent (R-PA), Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA), Rep. Royce (R-CA), Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE), Rep. DelBene (D-WA), Rep. Tiberi (R-OH), Rep. Sewell (D-AL), Rep. Meeks (D-NY), Rep. Himes (D-CT), Rep. Bera (D-CA). Since the agreement was signed total exports of goods and services from the United States to Korea have increased by $2.1 billion, over 3 percent, since 2011. The annual merchandise trade deficit with Korea declined in 2016.
09.21.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, local small business owners, and educators held a press conference at the CVTC Gateway Manufacturing Campus to highlight the importance of protecting the Wisconsin Manufacturing Extension Partnership, which is currently at risk of losing funding. They will also discuss the need to provide opportunities for manufacturing education and partnerships in western and central Wisconsin. “CVTC and UW Stout’s Manufacturing Outreach Center are working with local business owners to make sure our young people receive the training and skills they need to fill the open jobs. We need to be investing in training instead of making cuts to critical programs like the Wisconsin Manufacturing Extension Partnership. By making sure we have the workforce to fill open jobs we strengthen the rural economy and help Wisconsin businesses grow,” said Rep. Kind. “With the unemployment rate continuing to fall, our manufacturers are finding it increasingly difficult to hire qualified employees. As a result, technology is playing an increasingly important role in keeping manufacturers competitive and growing. Therefore, it is imperative for our manufacturing companies to be proactive in employee retention, training for new skills, and the strategic application of the right technologies. These challenges are recognized by NIST-MEP centers, including the Stout Manufacturing Outreach Center, and we are responding with resources that focus on optimizing the metrics-driven performance of our manufacturers,” said Larry Blackledge, Director – Stout MOC. The Manufacturing Extension Partnership is a public-private partnership that helps small- and medium-sized manufacturers compete. The Trump Administration’s budget proposal would completely cut the program, which would cause jobs to be lost in Wisconsin.
09.20.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind applauded the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster declaration for the state of Wisconsin. By taking this action the SBA will provide low-interest loans to help residents and businesses rebuild after July’s severe weather. “I applaud the Small Business Administration’s attention to this matter and timely action. Today’s action by SBA will help provide needed low-interest loans to help Wisconsin residents and businesses rebuild following last month’s severe storms,” said Rep. Kind. “I also want to applaud and thank all the local lenders who prior to this action stepped up to get loans out to flood victims. I look forward to continuing to working with SBA, state officials, and local officials to ensure local residents and businesses are aware that these loans are available to them.” Last week Rep. Kind wrote a letter to the SBA requesting they take immediate action to work with the State of Wisconsin and provide funding to help western Wisconsin communities rebuild after July’s severe weather. SBA provides low-interest disaster loans to businesses of all sizes, private non-profit organizations, homeowners, and renters. SBA disaster loans can be used to repair or replace the following items damaged or destroyed in a declared disaster: real estate, personal property, machinery and equipment, and inventory and business assets. The loans will be offered to individuals and small businesses in La Crosse, Trempealeau, Buffalo, Eau Claire, Jackson, Monroe and Vernon counties.
09.20.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to President Trump requesting that he immediately sign the disaster declaration for the Wisconsin communities impacted by the July flooding. The State of Wisconsin requested the disaster declaration from the Administration on August 23rd. “To get the critical resources needed to rebuild our communities the President must immediately sign a disaster declaration for the July flooding. Our top priority must be getting our local communities and property fixed. We can’t afford to waste any time,” said Rep. Kind. The areas impacted by flooding include La Crosse, Trempealeau, Buffalo, Eau Claire, Jackson, Monroe and Vernon counties.
09.19.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport will receive a $570,650 grant from the Department of Transportation to help make needed improvements. This grant will go towards helping improve runways and purchasing new equipment. “Thousands of people across western Wisconsin depend on regional airports. This grant will go a long way towards helping the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport ensure they can continue seamless operations and provide passengers the best experience,” said Rep. Kind. “The Chippewa Valley Regional Airport is the gateway for our region to access the air transportation network serving this nation and the world. The funds received through the Federal Aviation Administration Airport Improvement Program are essential to maintaining infrastructure at the airport. We sincerely appreciate the efforts of Congressman Kind and all of our Wisconsin federal representatives to ensure this aviation user fee funded program continues to provide infrastructure support at the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and airports across the state,” said Charity Zich, Airport Director at Chippewa Valley Regional Airport. The Chippewa Valley Regional Airport will receive $570,650 in funding. Find the full grant announcement here.
09.14.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Small Business Administration (SBA) urging them to provide low-interest loans to help Wisconsin residents and businesses rebuild after July’s severe weather. The loans would be offered to individuals and small businesses in La Crosse, Trempealeau, Buffalo, Eau Claire, Jackson, Monroe and Vernon counties “Many of our residents and small businesses can’t afford the unexpected costs associated with rebuilding after severe weather, which is why it is important for SBA to quickly take action to provide low-interest loans to help rebuild our communities,” said Rep. Kind. “I look forward to continuing to work to ensure local residents and businesses are aware of all the options available to help them rebuild.” Rep. Kind has been working to bring local officials, the State of Wisconsin, and federal agencies together to help Wisconsin residents deal with severe weather and its aftermath.
09.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on House leadership to quickly move forward with his bill to open up the flood insurance market and allow more private businesses to compete and possibly lower prices for consumers. Currently, the primary option for property owners needing to purchase flood insurance is the National Flood Insurance Program, which can be costly. “We are seeing an increase in severe weather and flood damage in communities across the country, including western and central Wisconsin. For many in flood hazard areas, like La Crosse, the cost of flood insurance is a necessary but significant financial burden. By opening the flood insurance market to competition from private companies, we will allow people to shop around and hopefully find the best deal for them. It is time we give options to the Wisconsinites and Americans who are required to purchase flood insurance,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind continues to work with homeowners, property owners, community leaders, and local government to try and ease the financial burden of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Rep. Kind is working to make sure this bill, Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, is either included in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) reauthorization, which must happen in the coming months, or is brought to the floor for a vote.
09.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on House leadership to quickly move forward with his bill to open up the flood insurance market and allow more private businesses to compete and possibly lower prices for consumers. Currently, the primary option for property owners needing to purchase flood insurance is the National Flood Insurance Program, which can be costly. “We are seeing an increase in severe weather and flood damage in communities across the country, including western and central Wisconsin. For many in flood hazard areas, like La Crosse, the cost of flood insurance is a necessary but significant financial burden. By opening the flood insurance market to competition from private companies, we will allow people to shop around and hopefully find the best deal for them. It is time we give options to the Wisconsinites and Americans who are required to purchase flood insurance,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind continues to work with homeowners, property owners, community leaders, and local government to try and ease the financial burden of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Rep. Kind is working to make sure this bill, Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, is either included in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) reauthorization, which must happen in the coming months, or is brought to the floor for a vote.
09.08.2017	The VA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) released a report on their investigation into improper dental infection control practices at the Tomah VA Medical Center. Rep. Kind brought the issue to the attention to the VA OIG, which prompted this investigation and report. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “This report, which I requested from the VA Inspector General Office, shows that there is more work to be done to make sure the Tomah VA is giving our veterans the highest quality care. While I am pleased that Tomah VA officials have already taking steps to implement the recommended changes, we must keep working hard to ensure our veterans are getting the care and treatment that they need and have earned.”
09.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Investing in 21st Century Schools Act, which renews a program that assists eligible Wisconsin schools with accessing funds to make needed improvements. These improvements could range from building a new curriculum to upgrading the facilities in order to give students the tools they need to get jobs. “One of the smartest investments we can make is in providing a high-quality education for young Wisconsinites. Funds are tight for many of our rural schools which leads them to have difficulty getting the new tools and resources they need to help our students get the best education they can. This Investing in 21st Century Schools Act helps level the playing field for students in rural and underserved schools by providing access to funds to help expand education programs, purchase new technology, and upgrade facilities,” Rep. Kind stated. This bill would extend the Qualified Zone Activity Bonds program for schools. This bond program provides 10-25 year loans that the federal government pays interest on. Loans may be used for facilities renovation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, equipment, curriculum development, or teacher training. Because the federal government provides the interest payment, the district then is typically only responsible for repaying the value of the bond.
09.05.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement following the Trump Administration decision to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay: “Many of the DREAMers whose families and careers are impacted by today’s decision by the Trump Administration are service members, small business owners, teachers, doctors, and students. They contribute to our local communities and know only one country: America. Congress needs to take bipartisan action to fix a broken immigration system and make us a stronger and more competitive economy by unleashing the untapped potential that’s been locked up because of the broken system.”
09.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day:: “As we observe another Labor Day, we take time to recognize the contributions workers have had on Wisconsin and our nation. Growing up in a union household on the north side of La Crosse, I know the importance of America’s labor movement. Although we have come a long way in protecting the rights of workers, the fight is far from over. I will continue working to ensure workers have safe working conditions, the right to collectively bargain, and the ability to earn a fair wage.”
08.29.2017	In a recent report the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that insurance companies can earn hefty profits selling and servicing federal crop insurance policies, and USDA could reduce program costs by hundreds of millions of dollars by lowering the guaranteed profit insurance companies receive. Rep. Kind has been working with his Republican colleagues to change this unfair policy and shift away from a crop insurance system that helps powerful special interests at the expense of family farmers. “This new nonpartisan report shows yet again that the crop insurance program is in need of major reform,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Unfortunately a large percentage of crop insurance subsidies go to a few, big agribusinesses, at the expense of our family farmers. As we start discussing the next farm bill, I hope we can work together in a bipartisan way to make the crop insurance program more responsive to the needs of Wisconsin family farmers, consumers, and taxpayers.” A number of the reforms that were recommended in the GAO report are included in Rep. Kind’s bipartisan legislation, the AFFIRM Act. The AFFIRM Act would help rein in the nearly $9 billion a year in federally subsidized crop insurance and bring crop insurance in line with every other federal subsidy available for agricultural businesses. The full report can be found here.
08.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) requesting they work with the State of Wisconsin to expedite the damage evaluation process. This comes after severe weather caused significant damage to homes, farms, infrastructure and businesses in western and central Wisconsin. “While those of us in Wisconsin have become very familiar with severe weather it is vital that we take immediate steps to evaluate the damage. I am calling on FEMA to immediately begin working with the state of Wisconsin, local communities, and farmers to expedite the damage assessment process. Our top priority must be getting our local communities and property fixed. We can’t afford to waste any time,” said Rep. Kind. Residents who have questions or are looking for help are encouraged to call Rep. Kind’s office at 1-888-442-8040.
08.08.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to Governor Walker requesting that for the health and wellbeing of rural Wisconsinites he give up his partisan crusade and accept federal money to expand BadgerCare. The failure by Congressional Republicans to pass a repeal of the Affordable Care Act signifies that it is time to work together to give Wisconsin’s seniors, veterans, and vulnerable rural residents the support they need. “As I travel to rural communities in western and central Wisconsin I hear heartbreaking stories about people being forced to watch loved ones struggle with addiction or other health problems and not having the ability to afford the care they need. Accepting federal money to expand BadgerCare could help a number of these people. I am ready and willing to work with the Governor to help these residents the Wisconsin Way,” said Rep. Kind. Copy of the letter here. Rep. Kind has long called on Governor Walker to accept federal money to expand BadgerCare. These calls are more pressing than ever. If Wisconsin does not accept money to expand, estimates suggest taxpayers could lose out on almost $1 billion in savings. Also, if Wisconsin does not expand by 2019, the state will miss out on the opportunity to receive full federal funding to expand BadgerCare.
07.31.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled a plan to improve health care for Wisconsin. The announcement comes on the heels of Congressional Republicans’ failure to repeal Obamacare and the pressing need to work together to stabilize and fix the health care system. “Over the last six months, Wisconsinites have faced far too much uncertainty when it comes to their health care. It is time to work together and recognize what works in health care, fix what doesn’t, and lower health care costs for all Americans. My plan lays out common sense proposals that would improve health care for Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind’s plan to improve health care for Wisconsin consists of four main principals: Stabilize the insurance markets Reduce costs for individuals and small businesses Address rising drug prices Continue delivery system and payment reform For months Rep. Kind and his colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition have been pushing Republican leadership to work on reforms and policies that will stabilize the individual market and make health care more affordable for American families.
07.28.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind urged Congressional Leadership to stay in session in August to stabilize the health care marketplaces. With the Senate’s failure to pass a health care bill and the ongoing uncertainty, action needs to be taken to provide certainty and ensure Americans continue to have access to health care. “Over the last six months, Wisconsinites have faced far too much uncertainty when it comes to their health care. We can’t let the uncertainty continue, which is why I am calling on Congressional Leadership to stay in session during August to provide certainty by stabilizing the health insurance markets. It is time to work together and recognize what works in health care, fix what doesn’t, and lower health care costs for all Americans,” said Rep. Kind. Many of the actions taken by the current administration have created instability and uncertainty in the individual market, thereby increasing costs and making affordability a greater problem. Earlier this month Rep. Kind and several of his colleagues in the New Democrat Coalition proposed a collection of reforms and recommitments to policies that will stabilize the individual market and make health care more affordable for American families.
07.26.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind helped secure funding to implement pain management reforms included in the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act. The funding, included as part of the 2018 budget, will assist in increasing programs to help medical professionals and patients understand the risks associated with pain medication and examine alternative treatments. “By securing funding for the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, we have made a significant step forward in addressing the opioid epidemic and giving veterans and their families the tools they need and the accountability they deserve. I will continue to work with my colleagues and veterans back home to make sure this funding is signed into law and that our veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Kind. The funding included in the 2018 budget will help implement the following provisions from the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act: Implementation of the Opioid Safety Initiative to ensure responsible prescribing practices within the VA Strengthening of Joint Working Group on Pain Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense Expansion of complementary and integrative health services for veterans Continued funding for the independent Office of Patient Advocacy Over the last two years, Rep. Kind has worked hard to make sure that the issues seen at the Tomah VA never happen again. A key part of that was passing the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act. The bill was named in honor of Jason Simcakoski, a Wisconsin veteran who tragically lost his life last year. Last year, the bill passed the House and Senate with strong bipartisan support and was signed into law by President Obama.
07.25.2017	La Crosse, WI – This week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of the Forever G.I. Bill, which expands the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. Rep. Kind is a cosponsor of the bipartisan bill and helped push the bill towards passage. It removes time limits placed on veterans to receive G.I. Bill benefits and gives veterans and their family members increased access to education programs. “After all the sacrifices our veterans have made to protect our country it is our responsibility to make sure that we are keeping our promises to them. One of those key promises is ensuring that they have access to quality education and financial opportunities as they begin to build their lives outside of the armed forces. The Forever G.I. Bill will help Wisconsin veterans build a better future for them and their families,” said Rep. Kind The Forever G.I. Bill removes the current 15 year deadline after discharge for veterans to use their G.I. Bill benefits. In 2015, Wisconsin had 12,987 beneficiaries who received education benefits through the VA. Many of these individuals will benefit from the bill’s expansion of access to aid for National Guard members and reservists, awarding up to $2,300 in additional tuition benefits as well as an increase in their housing allowance. This bill will also let Wisconsin veterans transfer eligibility between dependents.
07.24.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the Federal Aviation Administration will partner with the La Crosse Regional Airport to conduct an Airport Master Plan Study. The study will assist the La Crosse Regional Airport in making development decisions and help the airport remain an integral part of the community for years to come. “Thousands of people across western Wisconsin depend on the La Crosse Regional Airport. By the FAA partnering with the La Crosse Regional Airport we take steps to ensure the airport continues seamless operations and supports the local La Crosse economy,” said Rep. Kind. “The funding for the Master Plan project is important in laying the framework for development of the La Crosse Regional Airport for the next 20 years and ensuring the Airport remains a solid economic driver for the region,” said Clinton Torp, Airport Director at La Crosse Regional Airport. The La Crosse Regional Airport will receive $540,000. Find more information on the grant announcement here.
07.20.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, with ongoing severe weather leading to flooding and damage in western Wisconsin, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the Federal Emergency Management Agency to quickly work to expedite the damage assessment process. “While those of us in Wisconsin have become very familiar with severe weather it is vital that we take immediate steps to evaluate the damage. I am calling on FEMA to immediately begin working with the state of Wisconsin, local communities, and farmers to expedite the damage assessment process. Our top priority must be getting our local communities and property fixed. We can’t afford to waste any time,” said Rep. Kind. Anyone with damages to homes, lands, or roads should report to their County Emergency office, and anyone with agriculture damage should be reported to the Farm Service Agency. Residents looking for help can also call Rep. Kind’s office at 1-888-442-8040.
07.19.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter urging the House Education Committee to pass his bill, the Pell Grant Funding Act, or include it in a comprehensive higher education bill. The bill requires the Secretary of Education to use the profits generated each year by the Federal Direct Loan Program to fund the Federal Pell Grant Program in the following year. Pell Grants are critical in helping rural students afford the education and training needed to compete for good paying jobs. “In my conversations with employers across Wisconsin they discuss the lack of skilled workers to fill the jobs that are open. A critical part of filling the open jobs is making sure that Wisconsinites have access to affordable education and training programs. It is wrong for the government to profit off of hardworking young people who played by the rules. Instead of keeping the profit the government needs to reinvest any money they make from student loans into the Pell Grant program,” said Rep. Kind. The total amount of outstanding student loan debt has exceeded $1.2 trillion. While student loan debt soars, the Federal Government expects to make $127 billion in profits from the federal student loan program over the next ten years.
07.14.2017	Eau Claire, WI – Today, the US House of Representatives passed US Rep. Ron Kind’s Honoring Our Heroes Act, making it easier for the families of deceased veterans to obtain replacement medals when the original medals have been lost. The Honoring Our Heroes Act was inspired by Tari Poulda of Eau Claire, whose great uncle, Bruce Bradley, died during the Pearl Harbor attacks on the USS Arizona. Though Bradley (S2.c, USN) and his family received a posthumous Purple Heart, the medal had been misplaced in the early 2000s. Poulda worked with caseworkers in Rep. Ron Kind’s office, and with the help of the Obama White House was able to grant an exception to the current law. “I have long said that the best ideas for bills come directly from Wisconsinites and this bill is a great example of that,” said US Rep. Ron Kind. “With Tari’s help and determination, we worked together to ensure no other family is denied their loved ones service medals simply because of an arbitrary rule. I hope the Senate will move to quickly take up this bill and we can get this policy signed into law,” said Rep. Kind. “When my son and I started the process of trying to track down my great-uncle’s Purple Heart we had no idea the journey it would take us on,” said Tari Poulda. “While we were successful in getting the medal, I wanted to make sure no other family had to go through so many hurdles. Today, I am so pleased that thanks to the efforts of Rep. Kind the Honoring Our Heroes Act passed Congress.” The bill was included as part of the National Defense Authorization Act. It will now go to the Senate for a vote and then to the President to be signed into law. The current law only authorizes the Armed Forces to supply replacement medals to Veteran’s immediate next of kin. “Immediate next of kin” is defined narrowly and only includes relatives within one generation of the veteran. The Honoring Our Heroes Act will amend the law to expand the range of relatives who can request replacement medals once there are no immediate next of kin available to make these requests.
07.12.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, after at first proposing deep cuts, fully funded the Farm Service Agency loan programs. When the proposal to cut funding was announced, Rep. Kind successfully led a bipartisan coalition in pushing the committee to fully fund the program. “Everyone in rural America knows that these last few years have been rough on our farmers. As the backbone of the rural economy, it is essential that we are supporting programs, like the FSA loan programs, that partner with our farmers to grow their businesses and create job. We shouldn’t be balancing the budget on the backs of hardworking Wisconsin farmers, and I will continue fighting to protect these FSA programs,” said Rep. Kind. The House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee’s draft bill for FY 2018 proposed to cut several of FSA’s farm loan programs, including $225 million to the Direct Operating Loan program, $566 million to the Guaranteed Operating Loan program, and $250 million to the Guaranteed Farm Ownership Loan Program. The letter Rep. Kind sent to the committee urged them to renew FY 2017 funding levels for FSA loan programs and work with FSA to ensure adequate and timely funding is available to fulfill the demand for FSA loans into the future. A copy of the letter can be found here. In addition to Rep. Kind the following members signed on to the bipartisan letter: Rep. Faso (R-NY), Rep. Marshall (R-KS), Rep. Walz (D-MN), Rep. Kuster (D-NH), Rep. Stefanik (R-NY), Rep. Carbajal (D-CA), Rep. Bost (R-IL), Rep. Loebsack (D-IA), Rep. Thompson (R-PA), Rep. McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Lucas (R-OK), Rep. DelBene (D-WA), Rep. Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Rep. Bustos (D-IL), and Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR).
07.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District during July. “It is important to me, and to my office, that we are always available and working to help the residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope people will take advantage of these opportunities to share their thoughts and seek help on problems they might be having with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people having issues dealing with the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available during the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, July 10th 2017 Pierce County River Falls Monday July 10 – 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. River Falls City Hall – Council Chambers 222 North Lewis Street River Falls, WI 54022 Pepin County Durand Monday July 10 – 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Durand City Hall – Council Chambers 104 East Main Street Durand, WI 54736 Juneau County Mauston Monday July 10 - 9:30 A.M. to 10:30 A.M. Hatch Public Library 111 West State Street Mauston, WI 53948 Juneau County Elroy Monday July 10 – 11:00 A.M. to 12:00 P.M. Elroy Public Library 501 2nd Main Street Elroy, WI 53929 Monroe County Tomah Monday July 10 - 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Natural Connections 1012 Superior Avenue Tomah, WI 54660 Portage County Custer Monday July 10 - 5:00 P.M. to 6:00 P.M. Harvey’s Corner Pub 6805 State Hwy 66 Custer, WI 54423 Tuesday, July 11th 2017 Jackson County Merrillan Tuesday July 11 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Merrillan Village Hall – Council Chambers 101 South Main Street Merrillan, WI 54754 Eau Claire County Fall Creek Tuesday July 11 - 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Fall Creek Village Hall – Board Room 122 East Lincoln Avenue Fall Creek, WI 54742 Portage County St. Point Tuesday July 11 - 8:00 A.M. to 9:30 A.M. Emy J’s Coffeehouse and Café 1009 First Street St. Point, WI 54481 Wood County Milladore Tuesday July 11 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Village Milladore – Office 120 Main Street Milladore, WI 54454 Adams County Nekoosa Tuesday July 11 - 12:00 P.M. to 1:00 P.M. Town of Rome 1156 Alpine Drive Nekoosa, WI 54457 Adams County Adams Tuesday July 11 - 2:00 P.M. to 3:00 P.M. Adams Community Center – Rm. 123 569 North Cedar Street Adams, WI 53910 Crawford County Prairie du Chien Tuesday July 11 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Prairie du Chien Memorial Library (Crawford) 125 South Wacouta Avenue Prairie du Chien, WI 53821 Grant County Lancaster Tuesday July 11 - 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Shreiner Memorial Library (Grant) 113 West Elm Street Lancaster, WI La Crosse County Holmen Tuesday July 11 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Holmen Village Hall Conference Room B 421 South Main Street P.O. Box 158, Holmen, WI 54636 Wednesday, July 12th 2017 Trempealeau County Galesville Wednesday July 12 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Library Community Room 16787 South Main Street Galesville, WI 54630 Buffalo County Fountain City Wednesday July 12 - 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Fountain City Council Chambers 42 North Main Street Fountain City, WI 54629 Richland County Richland Center Wednesday July 12 - 11:00 A.M. to 12:00 P.M. 325 North Central Avenue Richland Center, WI 53581 Vernon County Westby Wednesday July 12 - 3:00 P.M. to 4:00 P.M. Bekkum Memorial Library (Vernon) 206 North Main Street Westby, WI 54667 La Crosse County Bangor Wednesday, July 12 - 9:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. Community Center (formerly known as Village Hall) 100 17th Avenue North Bangor, WI 54614 Thursday, July 13 Chippewa County Chippewa Falls Thursday July 13 - 10:00 A.M. to 11:00 A.M. Chippewa Fall Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 54729 Dunn County Colfax Thursday July 13 - 1:00 P.M. to 2:00 P.M. Colfax Village Library 613 Main Street Colfax, WI 54730
06.29.2017	Today, Rep. Kind introduced a bill to allow Native American Tribes to be treated the same as state and local governments for federal tax purposes. Currently, there are confusing and at times restrictive tax rules imposed on tribes, which has resulted in unfair treatment. “Wisconsin Tribes deserve to be treated the same way under our tax rules as their counterparts in local government, and it is long past time we take steps to make this a reality. By fixing the unfair and confusing tax rules currently imposed on the tribes we can bring certainty and spur economic growth in local communities,” said Rep. Kind. “The Ho-Chunk Nation thanks Congressman Kind for his focus on these important tax reforms which will lead to more access to capital by the Nation and tribes across the country. We urge the committees that will consider the Kind bill to take swift action to get these changes in law made so that jobs can be created and household incomes increased,” said Darren Brinegar, Vice President of Ho-Chuck Nation. This bipartisan legislation would help bring tax fairness to Native American Tribes in Wisconsin and throughout the country. Rep. Kind’s legislation allows tribal governments to be treated similarly to other governments in the following ways: Equal treatment of Tribes as States with respect to bond issuances and excise taxes Equal treatment of pension and employee benefit plans maintained by tribal governments Equal treatment of Tribal foundations and charities like charities funded and controlled by other governmental funders and sponsors Improving effectiveness of Tribal Child Support Enforcement Agencies by equal access to the Federal Parent Locator Service and Federal Tax Refund Offsets Recognizing tribal governments for purposes of determining under the adoption tax credit whether a child has "special needs"
06.27.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Invent and Manufacture in America Act, which will increase the Research & Development Tax Credit Wisconsin manufacturers receive to innovate and create more jobs. “With an increasing number of manufacturers choosing to move production overseas it is critical that we take action to curb this trend by incentivizing them to expand and create more jobs here at home. Wisconsin manufacturers are economic drivers in our local communities. Working on policies, like the Invent and Manufacture in America Act, that level the playing field here at home is critical to helping businesses innovate and create jobs, “said Rep. Kind. The bill enhances the value of the R&D credit by up to 25% for companies that perform the majority of manufacturing operations in the United States. For every job created in the manufacturing industry, 3.4 jobs are created in supporting industries to take a product from start to finish.
06.21.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to USDA Secretary Perdue and USTR Ambassador Lighthizer encouraging them to visit with dairy farmers in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional district. With the Administration taking steps to start renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) it is important that leveling the playing field for Wisconsin dairy farmers be a top priority, and visiting with farmers will give them useful insight into the current problems. “Some of my most meaningful and informative conversations have been talking with Wisconsin dairy farmers about the struggles they are facing and how we can work together to make sure our strong farming tradition is preserved. As USDA Secretary Perdue and Ambassador Lighthizer begin renegotiating our new trade policies with Canada I am strongly encouraging them to come to Wisconsin and hear directly from the dairy farmers about what is working and not working for their farms,” said Rep. Kind. In regards to the ongoing trade dispute with Canada, Rep. Kind continues to have conversations with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and others in the Trump Administration to make sure Wisconsin farmers have access to new markets to sell their products and to ensure that Canada’s dairy policies are a top priority in the context of any NAFTA renegotiation. Rep. Kind is also asking for clarity on the conversations Secretary Perdue had with the Canadians and the framework they outlined. Earlier this month Rep. Kind introduced a comprehensive strategy to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy. The strategy consists of five key principles: Opening new markets for Wisconsin farmers Making the Tax Code and Programs Wisconsin Dairy Farmers Use More Effective & Efficient Encouraging the Next Generation of Dairy Farmers Expanding Agriculture Research Comprehensive Immigration Reform -30-
06.16.2017	US Rep. Ron Kind cosponsored the bipartisan bill, H.R. 2482 – the Federal Perkins Loan Program Extension Act of 2017, which will extend the Perkins Loan Program for a period of 2 years so that students enrolled in the program can continue to receive financial aid. Currently, the Perkins Loan program is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017. If the program is allowed to expire, around 500,000 students across the country will lose access to the program. “Western and Central Wisconsin is home to fourteen colleges, technical colleges, and private universities with more than 71,000 undergraduate students, which makes affordable higher education a top priority,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As more and more students work full-time while attending school, or take a non-traditional path to earning their degree, it is important we support them with loan and grant options that fit their needs. That’s why I have been working to extend this vital program.” Rep. Kind’s office is available to assist with inquiries regarding federally-issued student loans and grants. If you or someone you know has a question or concern about federally-issues student loans and grants, please call Rep. Kind’s office toll-free: 1-888-442-8040, or visit www.kind.house.gov.
06.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled a plan to preserve the future of Wisconsin dairy. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive plan works to fix some of the problems that he has been hearing about from Wisconsin dairy farmers as he has been visiting farms for June Dairy Days. “During June Dairy Days I have had the privilege of talking with many dairy farmers and their families, and in each conversation they have emphasized how hard the past few years have been for them and their families. It is critical that we take steps to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy by leveling the playing field and putting in place policies that give our dairy farmers the tools they need to thrive,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive strategy to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy consists of five key principles: Opening new markets for Wisconsin farmers Making the Tax Code and Programs Wisconsin Dairy Farmers Use More Effective & Efficient Encouraging the Next Generation of Dairy Farmers Expanding Agriculture Research Comprehensive Immigration Reform Read the full plan to secure Wisconsin dairy here.
06.14.2017	A gunman opened fire at a baseball practice for the Republican Congressional baseball team. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “Today’s attack at the Congressional baseball practice is yet another tragic and senseless shooting here in America, this time targeted at members of Congress. My thoughts and prayers are with my colleagues, their aides, and the brave Capitol Police who were injured. Thank you to the Capitol Police officers who demonstrated incredible courage, and by their quick action saved lives,” said Rep. Kind.
06.13.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted for the bipartisan Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. The bill takes action to implement needed changes at the VA, including providing more protection for whistleblowers and holding employees with poor performance accountable. “To ensure that our VA facilities are giving Wisconsin veterans the care they have earned and deserve it is critical that there is increased accountability and protections for whistleblowers. By taking this bipartisan action we are one step closer to making sure the problems that arose at the Tomah VA Medical Center and other VA facilities never happen again,” said Rep. Kind. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act passed the both the House and Senate, so it now goes to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Rep. Kind remains dedicated to making sure VA facilities are providing veterans with quality care. His bill, the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, which took the first steps to increase transparency and accountability was signed into law. Additionally, he worked closely with the Simcakoski family to get a bill signed into law that gives veteran patients and their families have a real role in VA oversight and providing health care professionals better training on the negative effects of prescription painkillers.
06.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded Chippewa Valley Technical College (CVTC) a $899,993 Smart Manufacturing and Resources for Transforming the Future (SMART Future) grant. The grant will help CVTC prepare rural Wisconsin high school students for careers in high-growth fields like manufacturing and information technology. “During my conversations with Wisconsin employers in the advanced manufacturing, IT, and automation sectors I continually hear about the need to get more trained workers to fill open jobs. This grant will help Chippewa Valley Technical College provide our young people the training they need to compete for advanced manufacturing and technology jobs,” said Rep. Kind. “Making sure we have the workforce to fill these jobs will strengthen the rural economy and help Wisconsin businesses grow.” "This grant provides a tremendous opportunity for more young people to learn about how automation, programming and networking are used in modern industrial settings," said Chippewa Valley Technical College President Bruce Barker. "By developing skills in these areas, students can get a jump start on a fabulous career, which will in turn meet the workforce needs of local businesses." SMART Future grants partner with local resources to advance new and innovative methods for producing goods, meeting the nation's changing employment needs, and improving educational and earning opportunities for teachers and youth in rural areas.
06.09.2017	U.S. Rep Ron Kind (WI-3) announced today that his office is now accepting applications from individuals interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies. Students must submit their applications by Friday, October 20, 2017. “I am always impressed by the motivated, disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate outstanding students from western and central Wisconsin to become our military leaders of the future, and I’m looking forward to meeting this year’s applicants.” A Congressional nomination is required for students wishing to attend the: U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York The application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance for the following year. Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting Mark Aumann in Rep. Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official website: https://kind.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations
06.08.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Rep. Tom Reed (R-NY) introduced the bipartisan Agricultural Environmental Stewardship Act, which provides tax incentives for farmers and rural electric cooperatives to invest in biogas technology. “Wisconsin’s agriculture industry, responsible for $88.3 billion in economic activity and 413,500 jobs, is critical to increasing job creation and growing the local economy. By making it more affordable for Wisconsin farmers to pursue biogas technology we make sure they have more resources to create jobs and protect our natural resources for future generations,” said Congressman Kind. “We must help our dairy farmers find a cost effective way to use processes that are environmentally friendly. This tax credit will make these new technologies more affordable and the use of such methods will benefit our communities,” said Congressman Reed. “By creating incentives to make biogas and manure resource recovery technologies more affordable the Agricultural Environmental Stewardship Act will encourage more widespread use of manure digesters. This benefits society by decreasing nutrient runoff in waterways, decreasing farm odors, and improving water quality,” said Jim Mulhern, NMPF President and CEO. The Agricultural Environmental Stewardship Act promotes investment by allowing biogas technology to qualify for an energy tax credit that is on-par with the 30% tax credit for solar energy. The legislation is geared toward properties that use anaerobic digesters or other biological, chemical, thermal, or mechanical processes to make biogas that is at least 52% methane as well as nutrient recovery systems which make digesters run more efficiently and reduce harmful waste runoff.
06.07.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind urged the Senate to pass the Social Security Number Fraud Prevention Act of 2017 (H.R. 624). The bill, which passed the House unanimously, directs federal agencies to use partial social security information whenever possible on documents. “Several Wisconsin veterans have expressed concern to me about the Department of Veterans Affairs and other federal agencies putting their full social security numbers on documents sent via mail and email. I agree. In light of the increase in cyberattacks and identity theft, our federal agencies need to be taking every precaution possible to protect veterans’ private information, and this bill is a simple, common-sense first step,” said Rep. Kind. Read the letter here. H.R. 624, the Social Security Number Fraud Prevention Act of 2017, would direct federal agencies to include SSNs on documents sent by mail only when considered necessary and to use partial SSNs when possible. It would also ensure that SSNs are not visible on the outside of any package sent by mail. H.R. 624 unanimously passed the House on May 24 and now awaits action in the Senate.
06.06.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the Blugold Real Estate Foundation Inc. in Eau Claire has received $400,000 in Environmental Protection Agency Brownfields Cleanup Grants. The grants will be used to clean up contaminated soil at the former County Materials Corp. properties near the UW-Eau Claire campus. When cleanup is completed, UW-Eau Claire, the Eau Claire YMCA, and the Mayo Clinic Health System will build a collaborative recreation complex, called the Sonnentag Event Center and Recreation Complex. “I am proud of the work UW-Eau Claire, the Eau Claire YMCA, and Mayo Clinic Health System are doing to build the Sonnentag Event Center and Recreation Complex. This investment will allow the federal government to partner with our local resources to make sure the project moves forward,” said Rep. Kind. “The Sonnentag Event Center and Recreation Complex will help grow the local economy, and I look forward to taking in a game at the as soon as construction is complete.” “The Sonnentag Event Center and Recreation Complex is a transformational project for our community and the region,” said Dr. James Schmidt, Chancellor UW-Eau Claire “Not only does it provide prime riverfront property as a site for much needed facilities for the University and the community, along with greater public access to enjoy natural beauty of the Chippewa River, but our collaboration with the local YMCA and Mayo Clinic Health Systems enables us to create facilities far better than what we could do on our own. We were fortunate to receive the land gift from the Sonnentag Family, and now we are pleased and grateful for this investment of EPA funds to ensure the site will be a community asset for decades.” Rep. Kind’s office is available to assist in obtaining Federal grants or answer questions about the Federal grant process. If you have questions related to Federal grants, please call 608-782-2558.
06.05.2017	Recent articles from the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel and Wisconsin State Journal highlighted The Lugar Center’s Bipartisan Index, which ranked Rep. Ron Kind as the most bipartisan member of the Wisconsin delegation. The Bipartisan Index measures how often each Member of Congress works across party lines. According to the index Rep. Kind is ranked 19th overall when compared with all 435 members of Congress. Milwaukee Journal Sentinel - Ranking Wisconsin's federal lawmakers for 'bipartisanship' By: Craig Gilbert The most “bipartisan” congressman from Wisconsin, according to one recent study, is moderate Democrat Ron Kind of La Crosse. Which makes sense politically, since his mostly rural district isn’t dominated by either major party. In fact, it’s the most competitive U.S. House seat in the state. But the No. 2 Wisconsin lawmaker on the list doesn’t fit this pattern at all. Republican Jim Sensenbrenner is nowhere near the middle politically (he ranks as one of the most conservative members of Congress). And he represents one of the state’s most politically one-sided districts, which includes the ultra-Republican outer suburbs of Milwaukee. But Sensenbrenner, who has served longer than all but two U.S. House members, has forged coalitions with Democrats and liberals over the years on issues ranging from voting rights to criminal justice to the Patriot Act. U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, a Republican, answers U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, a Republican, answers as question during a town hall meeting at Pewaukee Public Library in February. (Photo: Milwaukee Journal Sentinel files) “It can be done,” says Dan Diller of the Lugar Center, which publishes a “Bipartisan Index” of Congress. The ratings are based on how often lawmakers introduce bills that attract co-sponsors from the opposing party, and how often they co-sponsor bills introduced by colleagues from the other party. It’s just one of many ways to define bipartisanship, but it’s a concrete, quantifiable measure of the effort members make at the front end of the legislative process to work across party lines. That is a practice this particular nonprofit group is trying to promote, and one that some scholars say makes lawmakers more effective. In the Lugar Center’s recent index for the 114th Congress (2015-'16), Kind ranked 19th among all House members, tops in the Wisconsin delegation. Sensenbrenner ranked 65th and Republican Reid Ribble (since retired) ranked 90th. Those were the state’s only three House members with positive scores. Republican Sean Duffy ranked 250th, Democrat Mark Pocan 265th, Democrat Gwen Moore 355th and Republican Glenn Grothman 426th (placing Grothman second to last among the 427 House members who received a rating). The index does not include House speakers, so Republican Paul Ryan was not rated. In the U.S. Senate, Republican Ron Johnson ranked 52nd and Democrat Tammy Baldwin ranked 75th. The Lugar Center has published ratings for House members since 2013 and for senators since 1993. Here are some highlights from the data: Kind (18th) and Sensenbrenner (59th) also ranked highly for bipartisanship in the 113th Congress (2013-'14). Ryan, who had not yet become speaker, ranked a little below average in the House for bipartisanship (244th). And the lowest-ranked members from Wisconsin for this two-year period were Duffy (319th), Moore (376th) and Pocan (390th). The Senate rankings suggest Johnson became much more bipartisan in the final two years of his first term than in his first four years. The Wisconsin Republican ranked 96th out of 98 ranked senators in 2011-'12 and 89th in 2013-'14 before rising to 52nd in 2015-'16. Democrat Baldwin, elected in 2012, ranked 77th in her first two years. Wisconsin has seen some of its most bipartisan lawmakers leave Congress in recent years. Republican Tom Petri ranked among the top 5% of the House for bipartisanship before he retired at the end of 2014. Republican Ribble ranked in the top quarter of the House before he retired at the end of 2016. And Democrat Herb Kohl routinely ranked in the top half of the Senate before he retired at the end of 2012. Not surprisingly, the long-term trend in the Lugar Center’s data is a decline in bipartisanship, which has coincided with the growing polarization of Congress along party lines. The lawmakers who receive the highest ratings for bipartisanship tend to be those in the middle of the right-left spectrum. The most bipartisan senator in the latest index is moderate Republican Susan Collins of Maine, and the lowest ranked senators are Vermont’s Bernie Sanders on the left and Texan Ted Cruz on the right. Among Wisconsin lawmakers, Kind is arguably the most centrist politically and ranks by this measure as the most bipartisan. But bipartisanship and moderation are not the same thing. A legislator can be at the right or left end of the political spectrum and have a bipartisan working style at the same time. “It’s possible for very conservative and very progressive members to work at this,” says Dillar, of the Lugar Center. Sensenbrenner was among roughly 70 House members cited by the Lugar Center as scoring well for bipartisanship while representing a very one-sided district politically. In the center’s latest index, Democrat Pocan and Republican Johnson both ranked fairly close to the middle of their chambers for bipartisanship, even though neither is remotely centrist. Pocan is more liberal than 96% of his House colleagues and Johnson is more conservative than 87% of his Senate colleagues, according to one highly respected rating system of ideology in Congress. But only Kind and Sensenbrenner, among Wisconsin lawmakers still in office, got a positive rating for bipartisanship in the last Congress. One is a centrist Democrat whose congressional district has voted for both Donald Trump and Barack Obama in recent years. The other is a staunch conservative whose district often produces the top Republican turnouts in the country. “Bipartisanship,” it seems, is practically the only thing they have in common politically. Wisconsin State Journal - Two state reps rank high for cooperation By: Wisconsin State Journal editorial board Which members of Wisconsin’s congressional delegation play well with others? According to the Lugar Center and Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy, it’s U.S. Reps. Ron Kind, D-La Crosse, and Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Menomonee Falls. They were the state’s only current representatives in either house of Congress to rate well for working across party lines in a serious way. Kind ranks 15th best in the 435-member House of Representatives, while Sensenbrenner is a respectable 65th. The main activity the researchers tracked was how often each member of Congress sponsored or co-sponsored proposed legislation with members of the other political party. “What we are measuring in this index is not so much the quality of legislation,” former U.S. Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Indiana, explains in his center’s report, “but rather the efforts of legislators to broaden the appeal of their sponsored legislation, to entertain a wider range of ideas, and to prioritize governance over posturing.” Former U.S. Rep. Reid Ribble, R-Sherwood, who retired from Congress this year, also did well in the Lugar and Georgetown analysis. He ranked 90th out of 435 House members for collaboration across party lines. And we have high hopes for his successor, U.S. Rep. Mike Gallagher, R-Green Bay, who has shown flashes of independence in recent weeks. Gallagher hasn’t been rated yet for his willingness to work on bipartisan solutions because he has only been in office five months. But the former Marine has drawn national attention for seeking answers from his own president’s White House about what Donald Trump disclosed during meetings with Russian officials. Gallagher also has questioned Trump’s abrupt firing of James Comey, just as the FBI director was overseeing a probe into whether Trump’s campaign worked with Russia to influence the outcome of last fall’s presidential election. Gallagher’s willingness to question the leaders of his own party suggests he won’t be afraid to cooperate across the partisan divide on workable solutions. We sure hope that’s the case. Appreciate these insights? Get State Journal opinion sent daily to your inbox The rest of Wisconsin’s congressional delegation rated poorly for cooperating in Congress. Rep. Sean Duffy, R-Wausau, ranked 250th; Mark Pocan, D-Black Earth, was 265th; Gwen Moore, D-Milwaukee, came in at 355, and Glenn Grothman, R-Glenbeulah, was nearly last at 426th. U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Janesville, wasn’t rated because he is the House Republican leader whose job is inherently partisan, according to the researchers. Yet when the Lugar Center and Georgetown first compiled its list more than a year ago, Ryan ranked poorly at 338th. On the Senate side, Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Oshkosh, was slightly below average, ranking 52nd out of 100 senators, while Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Madison, was far back at 75th. Wisconsin deserves more leaders in Washington who can work together to solve the nation’s problems.
05.24.2017	The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that the Congressional Republican Health Care Bill would make it harder for those with pre-existing conditions to get covered, negatively impact older Wisconsinites, and leave over 23 million Americans without health insurance by 2026. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “Today’s report from the Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan referee responsible for finding the impact of policies, reinforces that the Congressional Republicans Health Bill is a bad deal for hardworking rural Wisconsinites. Many Wisconsinites with pre-existing conditions would have difficulty purchasing health insurance and would see a drastic increase in the price, older Wisconsinites could see their insurance premiums go up by over $10,000, and almost 23 million Americans being without health insurance by 2026.”
05.23.2017	The Trump Administration released their proposed budget for 2018. The budget included drastic cuts to many of the programs that partner with local communities to provide services for hard-working Wisconsinites. “Instead of supporting programs that partner with local communities to create jobs and grow our rural Wisconsin economy the Administration’s budget guts the programs they depend on. There is nothing fiscally responsible about making drastic cuts to programs like the Rural Economic Development and Community Development Block grant programs to pay for outdated military equipment that even our Generals have said they don’t need,” said Rep. Kind. The budget cuts the US Department of Agriculture by 20%, including massive cuts to rural development program funding. The budget calls for the complete elimination of the following programs: Value-Added Marketing Grants, Rural Water and Wastewater Program, Appropriate Technology Transfer for Rural Areas, Rural Cooperative Development Grants, and Rural Housing Assistance. Communities across western and central Wisconsin have depended on USDA rural development programs to help repair roads, grow local small businesses, and expand broadband access. -30-
05.19.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue requesting USDA expedite the damage assessment process for the counties across western and central Wisconsin that experienced damage from severe weather. “While those of us in Wisconsin have become very familiar with severe weather it is vital that we take immediate steps to evaluate the damage. I am calling on USDA to immediately begin working with the state of Wisconsin, local communities, and farmers to expedite the damage assessment process. Our top priority must be getting our local communities and property fixed. We can’t afford to waste any time,” said Rep. Kind. Find a copy of the letter here. Anyone with damages to homes, lands, or roads should report to their County Emergency office, and anyone with agriculture damage should be reported to the Farm Service Agency. Residents looking for help can also call Rep. Kind’s office at 1-888-442-8040.
05.18.2017	The Trump Administration sent formal notice to Congress that they intend to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “There is no doubt that NAFTA has some serious flaws that have negatively impacted Wisconsin workers, farmers and business. However, it is important to recognize that Canada and Mexico are two of Wisconsin farmers' largest export markets and access to those markets must not be threatened. I am concerned that the Administration lacks a comprehensive plan for renegotiation. I encourage them to make resolving unfair dairy policies a top priority in the context of any NAFTA renegotiation. The test for any renegotiation must be if the agreement would level the playing field for our workers, farmers, and businesses.”
05.17.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act, which will allow Wisconsinites with outstanding student loans to refinance their loans. Allowing refinancing of student loans was a key point in Rep. Kind’s 2017 Higher Education Action Plan. “One of the most common topics people bring up to me during my visits to small businesses, tech colleges, universities, and at listening sessions is the need to allow Wisconsinites to refinance student loans,” said Rep. Kind. “With far too many Wisconsin men and women paying their loans but not able to get ahead because of high interest rates, it is time to take action and allow people to refinance their student loans.” The Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act will allow students and former students with outstanding student loans at high interest rates to refinance their loans at 3.76% - the current interest rate for Federal Direct Stafford Loans and Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans. Additionally, this proposal was a key tenant of Rep. Kind’s 2017 Higher Education Action Plan. When Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act, later this year, Rep. Kind will work to get this included in the larger bill. -30-
05.09.2017	President Trump took unprecedented action and fired FBI Director James Comey. Below is Rep. Ron Kind’s statement on the firing: "Today's rash decision by President Trump to fire FBI Director James Comey is a grotesque abuse of power. I am unaware of any justifiable reason that would show just cause for the firing of the FBI Director. I call on congressional leadership to schedule hearings so we can get to the bottom of this. I hope and pray this had nothing to do with the FBI's independent investigation into Russian interference and possible collusion of Trump associates with Russia during the 2016 election.” ###
05.04.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted against the Congressional Republican health care bill. The bill, which lacks transparency and complete information about what it will cost American taxpayers, would have a disastrous impact on the lives of thousands of Wisconsinites. "Never before in our nation’s history has a Congress and Administration offered a health care reform bill that instead of lowering the uninsured rate actually increases the number of uninsured individuals by 24 million people. That is because this is a large tax cut bill for the wealthiest paid for by kicking 24 million people off their healthcare coverage. It will allow critical protections for people with pre-existing conditions to be taken away, lead to skyrocketing premiums for older Wisconsinites, and put Medicare four years closer to going bankrupt. Instead of rushing forward a bill, without any hearings or cost estimate, we need to recognize what works in healthcare, fix what doesn’t, and seek to lower healthcare costs for all Americans,” said Rep. Kind. Watch Rep. Kind’s floor speech during the debate here. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that insurance premiums for older Wisconsinites could increase by 25% and the bill would result in loss of coverage for over 24 million people and 431,000 Wisconsinites. The bill has an especially negative impact on older Wisconsinites. It would take $170 billion dollars away from Medicare, which over 137,270 people in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District depend on, and jeopardizes the benefits that seniors have earned. While Wisconsinites are forced to pay more for less, drastic cuts are made to BadgerCare, and access to care in rural areas is jeopardized. Instead of providing more health care coverage to Wisconsinites, the bill gives over 800 billion in tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires. The wealthiest .01% will receive a yearly average tax break of almost $200,000.
05.03.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted for a government funding bill, which included several key Wisconsin priorities that he has been pushing for. Many of the programs that were included in this bill were drastically cut in the Trump Administration budget blueprint. The bill is expected to pass the House today with strong bipartisan support. “I am pleased that this bipartisan funding bill supports many programs Wisconsinites depend on. We worked hard to make sure the bill will help keep our communities safe, strengthen our Wisconsin economy, provide assistance to people seeking employment, and support local water projects. The budget needs to work for rural America, not just the coasts. While it is a positive step that these programs were included in this bill I will keep up the pressure to make sure they are also included in next year’s budget,” said Rep. Kind. Several of the programs that Rep. Kind successfully fought to make sure received funding were: USDA Rural Water and Waste Disposal Program, which provides funding for clean and reliable drinking water systems, sanitary sewage disposal, sanitary solid waste disposal, and storm water drainage to households and businesses in rural areas. Gays Mills, Viroqua, Richland Center, and other communities have benefited from this program. The Trump Administration proposed a $500 million cut to the program, which Rep. Kind successfully worked to make sure didn’t happen. Community Services Block Grants, which helps local organizations provide services and activities on finding employment, better use of available income, housing, nutrition, and emergency services. In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District the following organizations have received funding, West Central Community Action Agency, Western Dairyland Economic Opportunity Council, Couleecap, Southwestern Wisconsin Community Action Program (SWCAP), Central Wisconsin Community Action Council, North Central Community Action Program. The Trump Administration proposed eliminating this program entirely. Rep. Kind worked hard to make sure the program was fully funded in the government funding bill. Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program, which has helped the Ho-Chunk Police Department and departments in La Crosse, Eau Claire, Mauston, and Adams keep Wisconsin communities safe. The Trump Administration proposed a 25% cut to the COPS program, which could have cost Wisconsin $504,000. Rep. Kind worked to make sure the cuts didn’t happen and sent this letter in support of funding Essential Air Service Program, which provides essential funding for airports such as the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. The Trump Administration proposed eliminating the program entirely. Rep. Kind was able to work with local leaders to raise awareness about the importance of this program and sent this letter in support of funding for the EAS program. ###
04.26.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, the nonpartisan Lugar Center released their annual rankings of the most independent members of the House. The Lugar Center found that in the 114th Congress Rep. Kind ranked 19th in bipartisanship out of all 435 members and 1st in the Wisconsin Delegation. “In my conversations with Wisconsinites at basketball games, at the YMCA, and during listening sessions across western and central Wisconsin the constant complaint I hear is about how dysfunctional and divided Congress is. I agree that there is far too much division in Congress and we need to change that. I am proud that based on my record the nonpartisan Lugar Center ranked me as the 19th most independent member of the House, and look forward to continuing to work with anyone willing to find solutions for the problems hard-working Wisconsinites are facing,” said Rep. Kind. Find the 114th Congress Lugar Bipartisan Index here. The Lugar Bipartisan Index measures the frequency with which a Member co-sponsors a bill introduced by the opposite party and the frequency with which a Member’s own bills attract co-sponsors from the opposite party.
04.26.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, the Trump Administration released their blueprint for tax reform. The proposal would cut taxes for large companies and powerful special interests while massively increasing the federal debt and depriving middle-class families of important benefits they currently receive. Below is Rep. Ron Kind’s statement on the plan: “There is no doubt that we need a simpler and fairer tax code that works for families, small businesses, and farmers. However, the Administration’s proposal is not the answer. Their proposal cuts taxes for powerful special interests while sticking our children and grandchildren with the bill. I hope that in the coming tax reform discussions both sides can come together to work on a comprehensive plan that is both fiscally responsible and allows our country to be more competitive.”
04.26.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, and Acting Trade Representative Vaughn requesting that by May 1st, when the Grassland contracts expire, they create a plan to address the situation. The plan should address the immediate impact of the Grassland’s Dairy decision and create a strategy to end the unfair trade practices at the root of the current problem. “The recent decision by Grassland Dairy to cancel contracts due to unfair trade practices with Canada has sparked deep concern in dairy farmers across Wisconsin. Our dairy farmers face many challenges, and they can’t afford to have Canada, one the largest untapped markets for U.S. dairy products, continue to block access for U.S. products,” said Rep. Kind. “I am calling on Secretary Perdue, Secretary Ross, and Acting Trade Representative Vaughn to create a plan for addressing the immediate impact of the Grassland Dairy decision and for ending the unfair trade practices at the root of the current problem.” Read a copy of Rep. Kind’s letter here. In regards to the trade dispute with Canada, Rep. Kind has had several conversations with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and others in the Trump Administration to make sure Wisconsin farmers have access to new markets to sell their products and to ensure that Canada’s dairy policies are a top priority in the context of any NAFTA renegotiation.
04.26.2017	STEVENS POINT, WI – Today, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3) met with volunteers and taxpayers at Mid-State Technical College to highlight the IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) and Free File programs to help eligible taxpayers save money and maximize their refund this tax season. “It is no secret that our current system is far too complex and favors big special interests over hardworking Wisconsinites. We need to take action to simplify the tax code and level the playing field,” said Congressman Kind. “However, until then, it is important for Wisconsinites to know that there are free resources available to help file their taxes and maximize savings.” Each year, tens of thousands of taxpayers receive a smaller refund because they fail to claim all the credits and deductions they are eligible to receive. Since Free File began in 2003, over 50 million taxpayers have securely filed their taxes online through Free File – saving more than $1.3 billion in tax preparation costs while maximizing their refund. “We appreciate the efforts of Congressman Kind to help taxpayers save money and maximize their refund through the IRS Free File program,” said Dave Macklin of the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA). For more information on VITA, visit www.irs.gov and search for VITA. For the IRS Free File program, visit www.irs.gov/freefile.
04.26.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Acting Secretary at the U.S. Department of Agriculture urging him to take immediate action to assist Wisconsin dairy farmers who are negatively impacted by Grassland Dairy Product’s decision to stop purchasing their milk. Grassland Dairy’s action was taken due to protectionist Canadian trade policies restricting American dairy exports in violation of their trade commitments to the United States. “Over the past few days, I have heard directly from many Wisconsin dairy farmers who are deeply concerned about what this action by Grassland Dairy will mean for their family farms. Grassland’s decision further demonstrates why the U.S. needs to enact trade policies that level the playing field for our farmers. However, in the meantime I am calling on USDA to take all available steps to make sure Wisconsin dairy farmers do not lose their farms,” said Rep. Kind Find a copy of Rep. Kind’s letter here. In regards to the trade dispute with Canada, Rep. Kind has had several conversations with Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and others in the Trump Administration to make sure Wisconsin farmers have access to new markets to sell their products and to ensure that Canada’s dairy policies are a top priority in the context of any NAFTA renegotiation.
04.07.2017	Mauston, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind congratulated the City of Mauston on being awarded a $135,248 Land and Water Conservation Fund grant to make updates and improve local parks. The grant will help them build a splash pad and dog park for local residents to enjoy. “Living in Wisconsin, we are surrounded by some of the most beautiful natural resources. By investing in improving our local parks we are encouraging local residents and families to get outside and take advantage of these free resources. I congratulate the City of Mauston on receiving this grant and look forward to visiting the park when construction is complete,” said Rep. Kind. “In 2016 the City of Mauston received a generous donation to assist in the installation of both a splash pad and dog park to compliment the City of Mauston park system. However, that donation was only a fraction of the total cost. The City is extremely excited to receive LWCF funding to help close the gap in funding and complete these two projects,” said Nathan Thiel, Mauston City Administrator. When the City of Mauston solicited community input via Facebook for both the dog park and splash pad they received an outpouring of support and excitement for the idea. Mauston will begin the construction of these projects this year and hopes to have them completed and opened by the spring of 2018. The LWCF State & Local Assistance Program provides matching grants for local and state park projects outside national park boundaries
04.07.2017	La Crosse, WI – In a recent segment on RFD – TV, a station devoted to covering rural issues, Rep. Kind highlighted the negative impact the Trump Administration’s budget blueprint would have on rural communities. The blueprint makes drastic cuts to programs that create jobs and assist rural Wisconsin communities and families, including a 21% cut to USDA. The cut to the USDA budget would likely negatively impact access to rural broadband, rural economic development grants, and programs essential for clean and reliable drinking water systems. You can watch the TV segment here: https://youtu.be/REAXieukXqs
04.07.2017	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced today that he is returning $105,017.99 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the national debt. Rep. Kind has found savings in his congressional budget every year since taking office and has returned over $1.77 million to taxpayers. “Ever since my time working for Senator Bill Proxmire of Wisconsin, investigating wasteful government spending programs for his Golden Fleece Award, I have worked to find ways to save taxpayer money,” said Rep. Kind. “I approach my office budget the same way thousands of Wisconsinites approach their family budgets, by looking to find areas to save and ways to maximize money. Today, I am proud to announce that in 2016 my office was able to return over $105,017 to pay down the national debt.” Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Ron Kind has continuously worked to promote fiscal responsibility. “I recognize that this is a small part of the federal budget, but savings starts at home. I will continue to work to find savings in the larger federal budget. This year there will be an opportunity to for savings in the Farm Bill by reforming agricultural subsidies that benefit large agribusinesses as opposed to family farmers. We can also find savings in our defense budget and by addressing rising health care costs,” said Rep. Kind. With a recent report by a nonpartisan defense commission finding over $125 billion in government waste at the Pentagon, Rep. Kind will continue the push to make the Defense Department more efficient before continuing wasteful programs.
03.29.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to Governor Walker requesting that he put the needs of Wisconsinites first and accept federal money to expand BadgerCare. The failure by Congressional Republicans to pass a repeal of the Affordable Care Act signifies that it is time to put aside partisanship and provide Wisconsin’s most vulnerable with the support they need. “It is long past time for the Governor to end his ideological war on the Affordable Care Act and accept federal funding to expand BadgerCare for Wisconsin’s disabled, children, and seniors. Wisconsin has already missed out on the chance to save over $690 million and ensure health care coverage for thousands of Wisconsinites. If we don’t expand BadgerCare, the costs of uncompensated care will rise and force healthy Wisconsinites to pay higher insurance premiums,” said Rep. Kind. Read the letter here. Recently, the Republican-led state of Kansas voted to expand Medicaid, joining other Republican-led states like Arizona, Arkansas, Iowa, Nevada, and New Mexico, to possibly become the 32nd state to expand Medicaid. The momentum is not slowing with Republican controlled legislatures in North Carolina, Georgia and Virginia actively looking at expanding and Idaho, Nebraska and South Dakota likely to consider expansion. Rep. Kind has long called on Governor Walker to accept federal money to expand BadgerCare. These calls are more pressing than ever. If Wisconsin does not accept money to expand estimates suggest taxpayers could lose out on more than $1 billion in savings. Also, if Wisconsin does not expand by 2019, the state will miss out on the opportunity to receive full federal funding to expand BadgerCare. -30-
03.24.2017	Amid chaos within their own party House Republican Leadership was forced to delay a vote on their health care bill. This will be the second time in two days that they have had to delay the vote. “It is clear that House Republican leadership is trying to force a bad bill. Instead of rushing forward a bill, without any hearings, I hope they use this time to recognize what works in healthcare and work in a bipartisan manner to fix what doesn’t and lower healthcare costs for all Americans,” said Rep. Kind. Watch Rep. Kind’s floor speech on why the bill is a bad deal for Wisconsinites here. The bill would have an especially negative impact on older Wisconsinites. It would take $75 billion dollars away from Medicare, which over 137,270 people in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District depend on, and jeopardizes the benefits that seniors have earned. Also, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) found that insurance premiums for older Wisconsinites could increase by 25%. While Wisconsinites would be forced to pay more for less, drastic cuts are made to BadgerCare, and access to care in rural areas is jeopardized. Instead of providing more health care coverage to Wisconsinites, the bill gives over $800 billion in tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. The wealthiest .01% will receive a yearly average tax break of almost $200,000.
03.24.2017	Eau Claire, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on the House Budget Committee to include funding for the Essential Air Service program, which the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport depends on, in any final budget. This comes on the heels of the Trump Administration budget blueprint eliminating the program. The elimination of the Essential Air Service program would likely mean the end of air service to the Eau Claire area. “For communities like Eau Claire to continue to grow their economy and attract businesses and people they need to have convenient access to an airport. Elimination of the Essential Air Service program would likely mean the end of air service to the Eau Claire area, and that is unacceptable. Many of our communities are already feeling left behind by the changing economy, and the last thing they need is elimination of programs that serve our communities. I will work to make sure that any 2018 budget keeps air service at the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport,” said Rep. Kind. “If the proposed cuts to the Essential Air Service program are enacted it would likely mean the end of air service to the Chippewa Valley Airport in Eau Claire. Maintaining commercial air service is important to the competitiveness of our regional economy and our continued ability to attract and retain business and talent,” said Bob McCoy, President & CEO of the Eau Claire Area Chamber of Commerce. Read the letter here. The Essential Air Service (EAS) program was put into place to guarantee that small communities can maintain a minimal level of scheduled air service. EAS provides essential funding for airports such as the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. In 2016, the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport served 43,578 total passengers, resulting in a 9% increase over 2015 passenger levels. The direct effect of the airport on the Chippewa Valley economy in 2014 totaled 157 employees, a payroll of $7.8 million, and $41.6 million in economic output.
03.24.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in support of a bipartisan bill that would streamline and improve the process for VA Medical Centers, like Tomah, to hire and retain needed health care professionals. This comes amid staffing shortages at the Tomah VA Medical Center and VA Medical Centers across Wisconsin and Minnesota. “In my many conversations with Wisconsin veterans and visits to the Tomah VA, one of the most common complaints is the shortage of health care professionals, including nurses, psychiatrists, and dermatologists. By adding incentives for qualified health care professionals to seek employment at the VA and streamlining the process we ensure that Wisconsin veterans are receiving the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Kind. The VA has struggled for years with filling vacant positions in the VA health care and benefits systems. According to reports, there are currently more than 40,000 open health care positions with the VA. Among other provisions, the legislation Congressman Kind supported today (HR 1367) would authorize the VA to create a single database where all positions considered critical to the VA and/or are difficult to fill are listed and gives the VA the ability to consider them for similar, vacant positions in addition to the one in which they apply. It also expands veterans preference in federal hiring processes to include retired members of the armed forces, national guardsmen, and reservists who have served on active duty for more than 180 cumulative days. Rep. Kind has worked to solve the staffing shortages at the VA. Earlier this year he sponsored a bill to reverse President Trump’s Executive Order that instituted a hiring freeze at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Also, he has introduced a bill to designate the Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs), which would help them recruit health professionals.
03.16.2017	The Trump Administration released their 2018 budget blueprint. The blueprint makes drastic cuts to programs that create jobs and assist rural Wisconsin communities and families, including a 21% cut to USDA and elimination of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the below statement: “The Trump Administration’s 2018 budget blueprint would have a devastating impact on rural Wisconsin. Instead of supporting programs that create jobs and grow our rural Wisconsin communities it guts the programs they depend on. This is especially clear with the drastic cuts to the US Department of Agriculture, which through its many rural programs helps create local jobs and supports our local economy. There is nothing fiscally responsible about making drastic cuts to programs that rural Wisconsinites depend on to pay for outdated military equipment that even our Generals have said they don’t need.” The Trump Administration’s 21% cut to the USDA budget would likely negatively impact access to rural broadband, rural economic development grants, and programs essential for clean and reliable drinking water systems. At a time when the nonpartisan Defense Business Board found over $125 billion in government waste at the Pentagon, the Trump Administration should be looking to make the Defense Department more efficient before continuing wasteful programs.
03.09.2017	The House Ways & Means Committee, in the middle of the night, voted to move forward a bill that makes Wisconsinites pay more for less coverage, lacks transparency, and doesn’t give complete information about what it will cost American taxpayers. Rep. Kind voted against the bill. “After 8 years and hiding a bill until the last moment, this is the best that my Republican colleagues can come up with? Instead of rushing forward legislation, without hearings or debate, that will negatively impact the lives of thousands of Wisconsinites, we need to recognize what works in healthcare, fix what doesn’t, and seek to lower healthcare costs for all Americans. I could not in good conscience support a bill that makes drastic cuts to BadgerCare, puts Medicare in jeopardy, raises insurance premiums for Wisconsinites, and jeopardizes access to care in rural areas,” said Rep. Kind. The Congressional Republican health care bill provides the wealthiest citizens an average yearly tax cut of more than $190,000 at the expense of hardworking Wisconsinites. Additionally, the bill gives insurance companies huge tax breaks, discourages people on Medicaid from seeking a job, and would result in loss of coverage for thousands of Wisconsinites. During the markup Rep. Kind offered several amendments aimed at increasing transparency, ensuring fiscal responsibility, and protecting Wisconsinites from paying more for less coverage. All amendments were blocked by Congressional Republicans.
03.08.2017	The House Ways & Means Committee, which Rep. Kind serves on, will review the House Republican health care repeal bill. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the bill: “I am deeply disappointed that House Republican leadership is pushing forward with a bill to repeal the ACA that lacks transparency, debate, and any information about what it will cost American taxpayers. What is clear about the bill is that it will put Medicare in jeopardy, raise insurance premiums for Wisconsinites, jeopardize access to care in rural areas, and result in loss of coverage for thousands of people. “It will also provide the wealthiest citizens an average yearly tax cut of around $195,000 at the expense of most Wisconsinites who will end up paying more for less coverage. Instead, we should recognize what works in healthcare, fix what doesn’t work, and seek to lower healthcare costs for all American.”
03.01.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Promoting Education for Lifetime Learning (PELL) Grant Funding Act, which directs any profit the government makes from federal student loan programs into federal Pell Grants to ensure that the grants remain available to help Wisconsinites afford higher education. “Student loan debt is at a crisis level – here in Wisconsin, graduates enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt on average,” said Rep. Kind. “The government shouldn’t be making a profit from federal student loan payments, it should be reinvesting that money to make higher education more affordable for those who need financial help. Steering that money into federal Pell Grant programs helps more Wisconsin families afford college, which is one of the smartest long-term economic investments we can make.” The federal government is expected to make $73 billion in profit from the federal student loan program over the next ten years. The PELL Grant Funding Act will stop the federal government from making money off of Wisconsin students who are paying off their debt. The PELL Grant Funding Act is part of Rep. Kind’s recently introduced Higher Education Action Plan to make college more affordable for families in Wisconsin and across the nation. To read the full Higher Education Action Plan, click here.
02.28.2017	following President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement: “If President Trump is serious about working to expand economic opportunities for all Wisconsinites with good paying jobs, then I look forward to working with him. However, if he puts his own self-interests ahead of the interests of our country, there will be problems. For example, the President should support the creation of an independent commission to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, embrace transparency by releasing his tax returns, and divest himself from all personal business dealings at home and abroad.”
02.24.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that over the next few weeks representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. “Our office is always working to be accessible and helpful to residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope that people will take advantage of these open office hours to come share their thoughts and seek help to solve problems they may be having with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people who are having trouble dealing with the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Tuesday, February 28th, 2017 10:00-11:00 a.m. Portage County Public Library - Rotary Room 1001 Main St. Stevens Point, WI 10:30-11:30 a.m. Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 1:00-2:00 p.m. Wood County Courthouse - Room 115 400 Market St. Wisconsin Rapids, WI 1:00-2:00 p.m. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 Wednesday, March 1st, 2017 9:00-10:00 a.m. Adams Community Center 569 Cedar St. Adams, WI 11:30-12:30 a.m. Cassville Village Hall 100 West Amelia Street Cassville, WI 53806 11:00 a.m-12:00 p.m. Hatch Public Library 111 West State St. Mauston, WI 1:00-2:00 p.m. City of Tomah 819 Superior Ave. Tomah, WI 2:00-3:00 p.m. Fennimore City Hall - Council Chambers 860 Lincoln Ave. Fennimore, WI 53809 Thursday, March 2nd, 2017 10:30-11:30 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 10:30-11:30 a.m. Hillsboro City Hall 123 Mechanic Street Hillsboro, WI 54634 2:00-3:00 p.m. Muscoda Public Library 400 N. Wisconsin Ave. Muscoda, WI 53573 1:00-2:00 p.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI Friday, March 3rd, 2017 10:00-11:00 a.m. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 11:30-12:30 pm Village of Gays Mills 16381 State Highway 131 Gays Mills, WI 54631 1:30-2:30 pm Wauzeka Village Hall 213 E Front St. Wauzeka, WI 53826 2:00-3:00 p.m. Dunn County Administration Building County Board Room – Room 122/124 800 Wilson Avenue Menomonie, WI Tuesday, March 7th, 2017 9:00 -10:00 a.m. Augusta City Hall – Council Chambers 145 W. Lincoln Street Augusta, WI 10:00-11:00 am Holmen Village Hall - Board Room 2 421 Co Hwy DH, Holmen, WI 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. Chippewa Falls Public Library – Small Meeting Room, 2nd Floor 105 West Central Street Chippewa Falls, WI 12:00 – 1:00 p.m. Richland Center Municipal Building 450 S Main St Richland Center, WI
02.15.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced his Higher Education Action Plan during a meeting with students and leaders from Wisconsin Technical Colleges. Rep. Kind’s plan takes a comprehensive approach toward preparing Wisconsin students for success in their education program, ensuring they have access to affordable education, and creating the opportunity for them to get a job after they have earned their degree. “Investing in higher education and helping more Wisconsin students afford an education is one of the smartest decisions we can make as a nation. I look forward to working with students, parents, and educators on policies that prepare Wisconsin students for success in their education, ensure they have access to affordable education, and create the opportunity for them to get a job when they earn their degree,” said Rep. Kind. “Technical colleges are a huge component in being able to expand the economic recovery. We can serve students who come out of high school and can be a changer for individuals who are wanting to change their lives. Technical colleges often serve the working poor, and we are proud to offer the opportunity to change people’s lives. To continue that we need our federal partners to help make that happen in Wisconsin and across the country,” said Colleen Bates, Chair of Board of Directors at Chippewa Valley Technical College. “Graduating with high student debt is a fear of incoming freshman and a reality of outgoing seniors. Ensuring access to federal loan and grant programs is a priority for students just as students have been a priority for Congressman Kind. I’m glad to see that Congressman Kind’s Higher Education Action Plan will help students start life after graduation without the burden of student loan debt, and find good paying jobs here in Wisconsin,” said Patrick Brever, Senior at UW-La Crosse. Rep. Kind’s plan to help Wisconsin students succeed consist of three key principles: Set Wisconsin High School Students up for Success in Higher Education For many of our students, success in higher education starts in high school. We need to make sure our rural schools and teachers have the resources they need to prepare their students and that students know their options. Make Higher Education Programs More Affordable We need to increase affordability for all Wisconsinites attending a technical college, 2-year school, job training program, or a four-year university. This means making sure all students have access to affordable financial aid programs to help pay for their education. Prepare Wisconsin Students to Compete in Job Market Receiving a degree or certificate is important, but we need to make sure that once Wisconsinites have that they are competing for good-paying jobs that allow them to support their families, pay their loans, buy a house, and save for retirement. With over 12 college campuses in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District and graduates entering the job market with on average over $28,000 in student loan debt, Rep. Kind has long championed policies to give Wisconsin students access to affordable education. When Congress reauthorizes the Higher Education Act, later this year, Rep. Kind will work to get many of these proposals included in that bill.
02.15.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Stop Taxing Death & Disability Act. This bill would put an end to the unfair practice of charging parents of deceased students’ taxes on any student loans that are forgiven. “There is nothing more heartbreaking than losing a child or having your child become permanently disabled. When a parent faces this unthinkable tragedy, the last thing they need to worry about is how they will come up with the money to pay extra taxes that they shouldn’t have to pay. We should move quickly to consider this bill. It is the right thing to do,” said Rep. Kind. The Stop Taxing Death and Disability Act will make sure that an individual’s gross income does not include any amounts of debt discharged as a result of a student’s death or total and permanent disability. This exception would apply even if a parent of the deceased or disabled student received the loan on behalf of the student.
02.13.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind congratulated Cooperative Educational Service Agency 10, Workforce Connections, Aging and Disability Resource Center of Portage County, and Southwestern Wisconsin Community Action Programs, Inc. on receiving federal grants to support their Foster Grandparent Program. The Foster Grandparent Program helps Wisconsin seniors stay active by volunteering to mentor local children and teens. “The Foster Grandparent Program offers a valuable opportunity for Wisconsin seniors to share their knowledge and wisdom with the younger generation. With this grant Cooperative Educational Service Agency 10, Workforce Connections, Aging and Disability Resource Center of Portage County, and Southwestern Wisconsin Community Action Programs can continue to foster mentorships between local seniors and students,” said Rep. Kind. “The ADRC is pleased to be able to continue offering the Foster Grandparent Program. We are especially excited that we can now grow this wonderful program in Portage County. Foster Grandparents is one of those programs that is a win/win for the community. It is truly an intergenerational gem that helps both low-income seniors and school children,” said the Aging and Disability Resource Center of Portage County. “Our Southwestern Wisconsin Community Action Program Foster Grandparent Program has very successfully linked up seniors who have the desire and skills to help children in many schools who need one on one assistance in our current counties (Grant, Iowa, Crawford, Richland, Lafayette, Green) for many years. In those years hundreds of children and foster grandparents have been helped with this program and I am very glad and excited to hear the program will now be made available in additional counties (Vernon and Sauk) and schools,” said Walter Orzechowski, Executive Director of Southwestern Community Action Program. “Workforce Connections is excited to work in area schools with Foster Grandparents who have a desire to share their knowledge and compassion with children to improve their educational experience. This program will provide a valuable connection between the generations so they can teach each other and impact the community!” said Workforce Connections. “The funding received from the Corporation for National and Community Service will allow CESA 10 to continue this intergenerational program that has been in existence for 51 years. CESA 10 currently has forty-five Foster Grandparent volunteers serving in sixteen school districts in west central Wisconsin. The Foster Grandparents are matched, by teachers, with students who have special education needs or who are falling significantly behind their peers. During the 2015-16 school year alone, these forty-five volunteers spent more than 34,000 hours serving 228 students directly and many more indirectly: reading, solving math problems, practicing life skills, listening, guiding, mentoring and bonding. The impact that Foster Grandparent volunteers make in CESA 10 schools every day is immeasurable. Teachers, administrators, parents, and students are deeply grateful for their service,” said Mary Jo Hanson, Program Coordinator at CESA 10. In October of 2016, Center for National Community Service’s Senior Corps issued a Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for organizations in Wisconsin to apply to administer Foster Grandparent programs in select geographic areas in the state. Ten new organizations were selected to be awarded grants that, together, total $1,461.211 in funding to the state.
02.13.2017	Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI) and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) reintroduced bipartisan legislation to improve the Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) statute and clarify its application to the Medicare Prescription Drug (Part D) program. The Secondary Payer Advancement, Rationalization, and Clarification (SPARC) Act, replaces ambiguous and uncertain Part D MSP requirements with a simplified, commonsense approach that provides beneficiaries with improved access to the care. The legislation also allows Part D Prescription Drug Plans to recover prescription drug cost deficits more quickly from primary payers. “The SPARC Act will increase fairness to beneficiaries, create greater certainty for all settling parties, and avoid wasteful spending by allowing plans to waive secondary payer provisions if costs of recovery exceed the amount to be recovered,” said Congressman Murphy, who has long been advocating for more efficient and common sense rules to the MSP statute.Congressman Kind added, “Wisconsin’s seniors deserve clarity and certainty, especially as it applies to paying for prescription drugs. This bill gives beneficiaries and Part D Plan holders much needed clear and concise rules for covering necessary prescriptions. The SPARC Act expands on the ‘win-win-win’ that we brought to the Medicare Secondary Payer laws through the SMART Act four years ago.” In 2012, Murphy and Kind worked to move H.R. 1845, the Strengthening Medicare and Repaying Taxpayer (SMART) Act, through Congress, which represented the first step towards improving the MSP statute by streamlining the process of settling claims and providing funds to Medicare beneficiaries. In 2003, as part of the Medicare Modernization Act, Congress created a vague secondary payer requirement without providing a workable means of implementing it. As a result, although the Part D program has proven very successful by most accounts, the Part D Secondary Payer program has largely failed, with Part D Prescription Drug Plans rarely recovering the amounts owed to them and parties to settlements left with years of uncertainty. The SPARC Act will remedy this problem by bringing sensible reform to the law that benefit Medicare beneficiaries, the Part D Plans, and those parties settling cases with them.
02.10.2017	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that his office is currently accepting submissions from western and central Wisconsin high school students for the 21st Annual Congressional Art Competition. The deadline for submitting art to Rep. Kind’s office is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 3rd. “Tawni and I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition every year,” Rep. Kind said. “The artistic talent that our kids in western and central Wisconsin have is truly amazing, and I look forward to displaying some of it in my Wisconsin offices and in the Capitol for all to appreciate.” The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and four place pieces will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. A reception to recognize the students will be held at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse’s University Gallery on a date to-be-announced. All participants, their families, and teachers will be notified of the pending date, and are invited to attend. If you are a student interested in entering the competition or have questions about the contest guidelines, please call Rep. Kind’s La Crosse office toll-free at 888-442-8040.
02.10.2017	La Crosse, WI - Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored the ACCESS Act to restore the year-round Pell Grant program. With many Wisconsin students choosing to take less traditional paths towards completing their education it is important to make sure they have the opportunity to access year-round Pell Grants. “As I talk with families across western and central Wisconsin, I often hear about how they are struggling to balance taking care of their family with affording to get the education they need to succeed in the job market. By not having Pell Grants available year-round many Wisconsinites are being forced to make a choice between continuing their education at a higher cost or falling behind in their program. This is unacceptable,” said Rep. Kind. “We need to find ways to make receiving an education more affordable for everyone, and a simple first step is allowing students to access Pell Grants year-round.” Year-round Pell Grants were terminated in 2011, limiting students that enroll in classes year-round to only receive a Pell Grant for their fall and spring classes. The ACCESS Act will also allow both part-time and full-time students to receive the grant. Restoring year-round Pell Grants will assist an estimated one million students to earn degrees with less debt.
02.07.2017	Menomonie, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind toured the Menomonie Fire Department to discuss the recent Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) the department received and view the Jaws of Life that was purchased with the grant money. “Wisconsin’s rural fire departments often face a number of budgetary challenges that make it difficult to purchase state-of-the-art equipment. However, thanks to the Assistance to Firefighters Grant, the Menomonie Fire Department was recently able to purchase Jaws of Life. Our firefighters risk their lives to take care of our communities, and ensuring they have the best equipment possible will save lives,” said Rep. Ron Kind. "The Assistance to Firefighters Grant has allowed us to replace outdated extrication equipment with state of the art rescue tools. We are better prepared to provide lifesaving operations. We want to thank Congressman Kind for his support of this grant. Since 2003 this program has provided the Menomonie Fire Department with 1.3 million dollars through six different grants," said Jack Baus, Menomonie Fire Department Fire Chief. In 2015 the Menomonie Fire Department was awarded $56,364 for Operations and Safety. The AFG Program awarded approximately $306 million in competitive grants to fire departments around the country in 2016.
02.02.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH), introduced the Investing in Opportunity Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill that creates an incentive for entrepreneurs and businesses to invest in communities, like many across Wisconsin, that have been left behind in the economic recovery. “Many Wisconsinites feel that over the past decade economic growth has focused on the East Coast and the West Coast and left the Heartland behind. It is time we take steps to fix this problem. By providing increased investment for Wisconsin communities the Investing in Opportunity Act levels the playing field for our local communities and helps create good-paying jobs where we need them the most,” said Rep. Kind. According to the EIG Index, 14% of people in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District are living below the poverty line, 9% do not hold a high school degree, and 38% of adults (age 16+) are not working. The areas with the most room for growth in the district include: Readstown, Adams, Merrillan, Friendship and Bagley. The Investing in Opportunity Act of 2017 opens the door to private capital in the following ways: Removes a barrier to investment through a temporary capital gains deferral in exchange for reinvesting in distressed communities Encourages investors from across the nation to pool resources through newly-created “Opportunity Funds” -- established specifically for making investments in opportunity zones Concentrates capital by establishing “Opportunity Zones” -- geographically targeted low-income areas that will be designated by governors Provides incentives for investors to make long-term commitments to these communities -30-
02.01.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced bipartisan legislation to permanently remove Medicare’s cap on physical, occupational, and speech therapy. Repealing the arbitrary and dated cap will ensure Wisconsin seniors receive the care that they need at an affordable price. “Thousands of Wisconsin seniors use physical, occupational, and speech therapy to continue living their lives to the fullest. However, Medicare currently puts a cap on how much money they will cover for these programs, which places an arbitrary and unnecessary burden on many Wisconsin seniors. This bill would get rid of the cap and give our seniors the quality care they deserve,” said Rep. Kind. Under the current rule, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services caps the amount covered by Medicare at $1,980 for physical therapy (PT) and speech-language pathology services (SLP) combined and $1,980 for occupational therapy (OT) services.
01.31.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act to help Wisconsin brewers continue to grow and create jobs. Wisconsin brewers have an economic impact of close to $1 billion on the western and central Wisconsin economy and support almost 8,000 jobs. “The Wisconsin beer industry not only produces the best beer in the world, but it also creates jobs and grows the local economy in communities across central and western Wisconsin. I am proud to introduce a bipartisan bill to help Wisconsin brewers - large and small, tap into new markets and create good-paying jobs here in Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. The Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act reduces excise taxes, compliance burdens, and regulations for brewers, cider makers, vintners, and distillers. This legislation is comprehensive and supported by the entire craft beverage industry.
01.30.2017	On Friday President Trump signed an Executive Order blocking refugees and citizens of seven Muslim countries from entering the United States. The Executive Order immediately set off confusion and led to unnecessary detentions for families and travelers across the United States. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the Executive Order: “President Trump’s Executive Order blocking refugees and people from select Muslim countries from entering the United States does not reflect who we are as a nation. We cannot start discriminating based on religion. Instead of helping keep our country safe it will jeopardize our national security by giving ISIS and other terror groups another recruitment tool and making it harder for our allies in Muslim nations to work with us on counter-terrorism operations. I am calling on President Trump to immediately suspend his Executive Order until Congress has had a chance to review the order,” said Rep. Kind.
01.30.2017	President Trump signed an Executive Order blocking refugees and citizens of seven Muslim countries from entering the United States. The Executive Order immediately set off confusion and led to unnecessary detentions for families and travelers across the United States. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the Executive Order: “President Trump’s Executive Order blocking refugees and people from select Muslim countries from entering the United States does not reflect who we are as a nation. We cannot start discriminating based on religion. Instead of helping keep our country safe it will jeopardize our national security by giving ISIS and other terror groups another recruitment tool and making it harder for our allies in Muslim nations to work with us on counter-terrorism operations. I am calling on President Trump to immediately suspend his Executive Order until Congress has had a chance to review the order,” said Rep. Kind.
01.27.2017	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored a bill to exempt the Department of Veterans Affairs from President Trump’s hiring freeze. Many VA Medical Centers across Wisconsin and Minnesota, including the Tomah VA, are in need of qualified health care professionals and the hiring freeze makes it harder to fill those positions. “With one of most common complaints I hear from Wisconsin veterans and VA officials being a shortage of health care professionals, including nurses, psychiatrists, and dermatologists, our veterans can not afford a hiring freeze at the VA. In order to ensure that Wisconsin veterans receive the care and services they have earned and deserve we must exempt the VA from President Trump’s Executive Order,” said Rep. Kind The vast majority of VA jobs are located outside DC in hospitals, clinics, benefit offices, vet centers, and homeless vet programs. H.R. 696 would exempt the Department of Veterans Affairs from any employment hiring freeze.
01.25.2017	This week President Trump signed an Executive Order to institute a hiring freeze at the Department of Veterans Affairs, which comes amid staffing shortages at the Tomah VA Medical Center and VA Medical Centers across Wisconsin and Minnesota. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the Executive Order: “The fact that one of President Trump’s first actions was to make it harder for Wisconsin veterans to receive quality care and help is simply unacceptable. In my many conversations with Wisconsin veterans and visits to the Tomah VA, one of the most common complaints is the shortage of health care professionals, including nurses, psychiatrists, and dermatologists, and this Executive Order will only deepen the problem. Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country, and the last thing that should be done is to make them have to wait longer to receive the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Kind.
01.23.2017	President Trump signed an Executive Order withdrawing the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement between the US and eleven other nations. Below is U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s statement: “I have had many conversations with Wisconsin farmers over the past few months, and they are deeply concerned that by leaving TPP they will not have access to markets to sell their products in, which will cost us jobs in Wisconsin. We can’t afford to simply walk away from the global stage and cede leadership in the fastest growing area of the global economy to China. With 95% of the world’s population living outside our borders, United States farmers, workers, and businesses need trade to compete in the growing 21st-century global economy. When moving forward on our trade policy, I hope President Trump keeps this in mind and holds all future agreements up to the rigorous standards outlined in Trade Promotion Authority, including provisions to protect workers, the environment, and increased transparency.”
01.13.2017	The United States House of Representatives voted on a Republican budget that would take steps to defund the Affordable Care Act and increase the national debt by 9.5 trillion dollars. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “This misguided budget proposal not only takes steps to take away over 140,000 Wisconsinites’ access to affordable and quality health care, but it also increases the national debt by an astronomical 9.5 trillion dollars leaving a legacy of debt for our children and grandchildren. If Senator Bill Proxmire were still alive, this budget would be a top contender for his Golden Fleece Award,” said Rep. Kind.
01.12.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced bipartisan legislation to help Wisconsin families and students afford higher education. H.R. 529 works to expand the already existing tax-free college savings plan by adding new incentives for Wisconsinites to use them. “With far too many hard-working Wisconsin families feeling the pinch when it comes to affording to send their children to a university or technical college it is important that we take action to help ease the burden. By creating incentives for parents to invest in tax-free 529 college savings plans, like an employer matching program and the ability to use the money to pay for educational tools, we are leveling the playing field for hard-working Wisconsin parents and students,” said Rep. Kind. Last Congress Rep. Kind had several additional improvements to the 529 College Savings Plan signed into law. Since being included in the tax code in 1996, 529 plans have gone from nothing to nearly 12 million accounts and resulted in college savings of more than $225 billion. H.R. 529 expands, modernizes, and strengthens tax-free 529 college savings plans by encouraging employer participation through automatic payroll deduction, adding penalty free rollover options into a charity or to pay student loans of the beneficiary or a family member, and allowing tax-free rollovers from 529 Accounts to ABLE accounts in the case the child becomes disabled and is unable to use the funds for higher education expenses.
01.11.2017	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Restoring Access to Medication Act, which would expand existing programs to help lower the cost of over-the-counter medicine for Wisconsin families. “With cold and flu season in full swing many Wisconsinites are having to pay steep prices for over-the-counter medicines to treat their symptoms. The Restoring Access to Medication and Improving Health Savings Act will lower drug costs for Wisconsin families,” said Rep. Kind. This legislation, introduced with Rep. Lynne Jenkins (R-KS), would restore the ability of people to use the funds in their Health Savings Account and Flexible Spending Account to purchase over-the-counter medications.
01.10.2017	US Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Honoring Our Heroes Act, which allows family members within four generations to a veteran to apply for replacement medals, once all immediate family have passed away. This bill comes after an Eau Claire County resident reached out to Rep. Kind’s office after having problems getting her great-uncle’s Purple Heart. “I have long said that the best ideas for bills come directly from Wisconsinites and this bill is a great example of that. After hearing Tari’s story I am proud to make sure that no other family is denied their loved ones service medals simply because of an arbitrary rule,” said Rep. Kind. The Honoring Our Heroes Act was inspired by Tari Poulda of Eau Claire, whose great uncle, Bruce Bradley, died during the Pearl Harbor attacks on the USS Arizona. Though Bradley (S2.c, USN) and his family received a posthumous Purple Heart, the medal had been misplaced in the early 2000s. Poulda worked with caseworkers in Rep. Ron Kind’s office, and with the help of the White House was able to grant an exception to the current law.
01.03.2017	Following House Republicans’ attempt to effectively kill the independent Office of Congressional Ethics, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the below statement: “Today’s effort to take all investigative and oversight authority away from the independent Office of Congressional Ethics was a shameful first action for the new Congress. I am glad my colleagues realized this mistake and decided not to pursue the change. At a time when the people of Wisconsin have lost trust in Washington further weakening transparency and accountability for members of Congress is not the way to rebuild that trust. I will continue to stand up for Wisconsinites by fighting against any future attempts to limit government transparency and accountability,” said Rep. Kind.
12.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the University of Wisconsin-Platteville would be receiving a grant from the US Department of Agriculture and National Institute of Food Agriculture. The grant will aid in the establishment of a Hydrologic Observatory and supports long-term agro-ecosystem research, education, and outreach in the Upper Mississippi River Basin. “As Wisconsinites, we are fortunate to have abundant natural resources in our own backyard. We must do our part to ensure they are taken care of for future generations. I am proud of the work UW-Platteville has done to research how to best preserve and understand the Upper Mississippi River Basin, and this grant allows them to expand the work they do,” said Rep. Kind. "The funding provided through the USDA NIFA grant will support the establishment of UW-Platteville's Hydrologic Observatory on the Fever River. This observatory will be one of several established across the country for the purpose of improving our understanding of water and nutrient cycling, and developing national data sets to support large-scale modeling efforts within the USDA Agricultural Research Service's Long Term Agroecosystems Research Program. We are grateful for the support of USDA NIFA and look forward to completing the project with our collaborators within the Agricultural Research Service and UW-Stevens Point," said Dennis Busch of UW-Platteville. Rep. Kind has continually worked to make sure that researchers have access to USDA Capacity Building Grants. He supported funding for the grants in the 2016 budget bill.
12.19.2016	The La Crosse Collaborative to End Homelessness announced that it met the goal they set in September: to end homelessness for veterans. Below is U.S. Rep. Kind’s statement on the announcement: “I am incredibly proud that La Crosse has become the first city in Wisconsin to end homelessness among our veterans. I want to congratulate the over thirty La Crosse agencies, who worked collaboratively, to make sure that every local veteran has a roof over their head by Christmas day,” said Rep. Kind. “In the coming months I look forward to working with the La Crosse Collaborative to End Homelessness to find ways to build on this progress.”
12.16.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s legislation to increase rail safety and provide needed resources for first responders, the RESPONSE Act, was signed into law by President Obama. “Wisconsinites have dealt with the negative impacts of rail traffic long enough and today President Obama signed into law my bill to solve the problem and keep our neighborhoods safe. As I have visited with residents in communities up and down the Mississippi River and across central Wisconsin I have heard concerns about the risk they face from train derailments. The RESPONSE Act works to solve the problem by providing more training for our first responders and holding big railroad companies accountable for their actions,” said Rep. Kind. In light train derailments in Ferryville, Alma, Watertown, and in our neighboring communities of Brownsville, Minnesota and Galena, Illinois Rep. Kind has been working with community members and local officials on finding ways to increase rail safety and hold big rail companies accountable. The RESPONSE Act establishes a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council. It brings together federal agencies, technical experts, emergency responders and the private sector to review training methods, resources, best practices, and unmet needs related to railroad incidents we can ensure the safety of Wisconsin residents and local communities. The subcommittee is tasked with evaluating and providing recommendations on: The quality and application of training for local emergency responders related to rail hazardous materials incidents Modernizing training course content related to rail hazardous material incidents Identifying any overlap in training content and opportunities to develop complementary courses and materials Determining the effectiveness of funding levels for training emergency responders Developing a strategy for integration of commodity flow studies
12.14.2016	U.S. Congressman Ron Kind presented World War 2 veteran and Eleva resident Ed Ross with replacement service medals and decorations Rep. Kind’s office helped him receive at a ceremony at the American Legion in Eleva. “Ed, like so many other veterans after the war, just wanted to get home and start his life. In doing so he had never received the medals he had earned during his service. After his family reached out to my office we went right to work to make sure Ed received the honors he had earned,” said Rep. Kind. “It was my pleasure to present Ed his long overdue medals. I encourage any other veterans who haven’t gotten their service medals to reach out to my office for help.” The medals Mr. Ross received are the World War II Victory Medal, American Campaign Medal, Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal, Navy Occupation Service Medal, Combat Action Ribbon, Discharge Button, and Honorable Service Lapel Pin. Rep. Kind’s office is available to help veterans and their families deal with any issue they might be having with Veterans Affairs Administration. This includes getting copies of service records, receiving benefits, and replacing medals earned. You can reach the office by calling 1-888-442-8040 or visiting kind.house.gov.
12.06.2016	U.S. Rep. Kind expressed his concern after investigative reporters at the Washington Post found that the Pentagon had hidden evidence of $125 billion dollars in wasted taxpayer money. Hiding this report makes it hard to fix the problems, since the public is clearly not being told what is broken. “The recent news that the Pentagon hid a report that detailed over $125 billion dollars in wasted government money is deeply disturbing, and exactly the type of waste of taxpayer dollars that the late Wisconsin Senator Bill Proxmire and I have fought against. It also displays a complete lack of the transparency that I have fought to ensure people have from their government. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to make smart investments in support of our troops not increasing the national debt,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind has long fought to cut wasteful spending and increase government transparency. Earlier this year he introduced the Wasteful Defense Spending Reduction Act, which puts in place an expedited process to cut wasteful defense spending and pay down the national debt. In the coming months, he will continue to hold the Administration and Congress accountable for any waste of taxpayer money. In addition, his legislation to increase transparency and require the Office of the Inspector General to share work products with any individual or entity that requests it and post final reports on their website was signed into law.
11.29.2016	Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s legislation to increase rail safety and provide needed resources for first responders, the RESPONSE Act, passed unanimously out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The bill is now headed to the Senate for final vote and then will be signed by the President. “With the passage of the RESPONSE Act we are making our Wisconsin communities safer by providing more training for our first responders and holding big railroad companies accountable for their actions,” said Rep. Kind. “Our residents have dealt with the negative impacts of rail traffic long enough and today we took action to solve the problem and keep our neighborhoods safe.” The RESPONSE Act establishes a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council. It brings together federal agencies, technical experts, emergency responders and the private sector to review training methods, resources, best practices, and unmet needs related to railroad incidents we can ensure the safety of Wisconsin residents and local communities. The subcommittee is tasked with evaluating and providing recommendations on: The quality and application of training for local emergency responders related to rail hazardous materials incidents Modernizing training course content related to rail hazardous material incidents Identifying any overlap in training content and opportunities to develop complementary courses and materials Determining the effectiveness of funding levels for training emergency responders Developing a strategy for integration of commodity flow studies The companion bill, introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), passed the full Senate with broad bipartisan support
11.16.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the Chairman of BNSF Railway requesting they answer a number of questions about what safety measures they have in place for severe weather. In September heavy rains caused a BNSF train to derail near Ferryville, WI, spilling about 1,000 gallons of diesel fuel near the Mississippi River. “Given the severe weather Wisconsin has seen already this year and the upcoming winter weather it is vital that BNSF assures our local residents and communities that they are taking all necessary action to operate safely and prevent derailments like the one in Ferryville. I look forward to receiving a timely response from BNSF,” said Rep. Kind. Find a copy of the letter here. Rep. Kind has long been focused on increasing rail safety. His legislation, the RESPONSE Act, to increase rail safety and provide needed resources for first responders, passed unanimously out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in September. The bill is expected to head to the House floor for a final vote in the coming weeks.
11.11.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined local veterans, students, and teachers at Menomonie Middle School to celebrate Veterans Day and recognize the contributions of Wisconsin veterans. “Veterans Day reminds us how important it is to honor the men and women who have served our country. Today, I was pleased to join Menomonie Middle School students as we heard directly from Wisconsin veterans about their service and sacrifice. One of the most important things we can do is preserve our veteran’s stories for future generations, which is why I started the Veterans History project,” said Rep. Kind. In 2000, Rep. Kind authored, and Congress unanimously passed, legislation creating the Veterans History Project, which has since allowed 98,000 veterans to record their stories and preserve them in the Library of Congress for future generations. To learn more about the project or how you can help collect stories for the project, visit: https://kind.house.gov/veterans-history-project/
11.03.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in multiple counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District during November. “It is important to me, and to my office, that we are always available and working to help the residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope people will take advantage of these opportunities to share their thoughts and seek help on problems they may be facing with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people having issues dealing with the Department of Veteran Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, the Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, November 14, 2016 1:00-2:00 p.m. Centralia Center 220 3rd Street South Wisconsin Rapids, WI 54494 Tuesday, November 15, 2016 9:00-10:00 a.m. Village of Stoddard 180 North Main Street Stoddard, WI 54658 10:30-11:30 a.m. Prescott Public Library – Mississippi Room 800 Borner Street North Prescott, WI 54021 11:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. DeSoto Community Center 53 Crawford Street DeSoto, WI 54624 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Adams Community Center 569 North Cedar St. Adams, WI 53910 1:00-2:00 p.m. Prairie du Chien Memorial Library 125 South Wacouta Avenue Prairie du Chien, WI 53821 1:00-2:00 p.m. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 2:00-3:00 p.m. Stevens Point Public Library 1001 Main Street Stevens Point, WI 54481 Wednesday, November 16, 2016 9:30-10:30 a.m. Village of Cashton 811 Main Street Cashton, WI 54619 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Viola Village Hall 106 West Wisconsin Street Viola, WI 54664 2:00-3:00p.m. Brewer Public Library 325 North Central Avenue Richland Center, WI 53581 Thursday, November 17, 2016 10:30-11:30 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 1:00-2:00 p.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – Packer Room 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI 54773 2:00-3:00 p.m. Hatch Public Library 111 West State Street Mauston, WI 53948 Friday, November 18, 2016 10:00-11:00 a.m. Boscobel City Hall 1006 Wisconsin Avenue Boscobel, WI 53805 10:00-11:00 a.m. Alma Public Library 312 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 1:00-2:00 p.m. Platteville City Hall, G.A.R Room 75 North Bonson Street Platteville, WI 53818 2:00-3:00 p.m. Wheeler Village Hall 105 W. Tower Road Wheeler, WI 54772
11.02.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind applauded the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster declaration for the state of Wisconsin. By taking this action the SBA will provide low-interest loans to help residents and businesses rebuild after September’s severe weather. “I applaud the Small Business Administration’s attention to this matter and timely action. Today’s action by SBA will provide needed low-interest loans to help Wisconsin residents and businesses rebuild following last month’s severe storms,” said Rep. Kind. “I look forward to continuing to working with SBA, state officials, and local officials to ensure local residents and businesses are aware that these loans are available to them.” Last week Rep. Kind wrote a letter to the SBA requesting they take immediate action to work with the State of Wisconsin and provide funding to help western and central Wisconsin communities rebuild after September’s severe weather.
10.27.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind met with Tomah VA Acting Director Vicki Brahm to discuss the recent decision to request the Veterans Assistance Foundation relocate their homeless veterans program. During the meeting, Rep. Kind urged Acting Director Brahm to take action to make sure that every veteran impacted has access to housing and the care and treatment they need. Below is his statement: “It is critical that throughout this process our focus remains on making sure all the veterans impacted will have access to housing and the care and treatment they need to successfully transition back into the community. I have been and will remain in communication with both the Tomah VA Acting Director Vicki Brahm, her leadership team and the Veterans Assistance Foundation to ensure that the focus remains on helping our veterans find housing,” said Rep. Kind.
10.27.2016	Congressman Ron Kind joined USDA Rural Business Service Administrator Sam Rikkers in Eau Claire, Wis. today to announce USDA is providing $45 million in Rural Development Value-Added Producer Grants to agricultural producers and rural businesses for the development of new products. In all, 23 Wisconsin agricultural producers will receive more than $3.7 million in assistance. Rikkers made the announcement on behalf of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack during a visit to Leffel Roots, LLC with U.S. Congressman Kind. Leffel Roots is receiving a $22,500 grant to develop and market new bakery, cider and hard cider products. “Through the Value Added Producer Grant program, USDA Rural Development invests both in the quality of food and quality of life in rural areas,” Rikkers said. “Wisconsin businesses like Leffel Roots are creating jobs and growing local economies with their innovative ideas and entrepreneurial spirit.” “Small businesses and family farmers are the backbone of our Wisconsin economy and the lifeblood of our communities. I am pleased to see that USDA Rural Development is working to provide funds to assist them in growing, creating jobs and tapping into new markets,” said Rep Kind. “During our tour of Leffel Roots we were able to see first-hand the positive impact that this grant will have on local businesses.” Wisconsin led the nation in number of grants received. Another Wisconsin recipient is Bee Forest, LLC, a logging and sawmill company in Nelson, Wis. They are receiving a $250,000 grant to market, process and ship shredded bark and saw dust. Since the program’s inception in 2001, USDA Rural Development has funded 163 projects totaling over $29.9 million in the State. Today’s announcement includes awards for 326 projects nationwide. The VAPG program assists agricultural producers and rural businesses to grow and increase their income by turning raw commodities into value-added products, expanding marketing opportunities, or developing new uses for existing products. Find a full list of recipients here. Congress increased funding for the program in the 2014 Farm Bill. USDA has awarded 1,442 VAPG awards since 2009, totaling $184.2 million. The grants are a key element of USDA’s Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food Initiative, which coordinates the Department's work on local and regional food systems. Secretary Vilsack has identified local and regional food systems as a key component of rural economic development.
10.26.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has given the Wisconsin Department of Transportation $1.6 million to help repair the roads and highways that were destroyed by the severe weather in August and September. This grant would help communities across western and central Wisconsin. “During my visit to the Wisconsin communities impacted by severe weather I saw first-hand the extent of the damage to key infrastructure like roads and highways. Repairing transportation infrastructure is one of the first steps in helping our communities rebuild after severe weather, and these funds will go directly to fixing many of the roads and highways that were washed away or damaged during the August and September storms,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind lead the Wisconsin delegation in requesting President Obama issue a major disaster declaration for Wisconsin, which allowed these funds to be provided to the state of Wisconsin.
10.26.2016	Today, Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), along with Rep. Gwen Moore, Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), sent a letter to the Department of Justice requesting assistance in overseeing Wisconsin’s monitoring of the election, including providing poll-monitoring services in the state. The request was spurred by Wisconsin’s contentious and discriminatory Voter ID Law and a political environment that has become increasingly intimidating for voters. “We have continued to see how Wisconsin’s voter ID law puts the franchise of many Wisconsinites, particularly people of color, in real jeopardy,” the Members of Congress write. “Given the flawed efforts thus far by state officials to properly implement this law, with proof of demonstrably false information having been disseminated to voters just days before the election, we fear that irreparable harm may result—particularly to voters of color, who disproportionately bear the brunt of these policies and any Election Day intimidation efforts. We ask the Department to provide any resources or assistance it can in order to help our state navigate these unsettling circumstances.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here. The Honorable Loretta Lynch U.S. Department of Justice Office of the Attorney General 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch, As you are aware, Wisconsin, which we represent, is among 14 states that have adopted new voter restrictions in advance of the November 8th election. The state’s 2011 voter identification law, one of the strictest in the country, has been repeatedly challenged in federal court due to its discriminatory effects on vulnerable populations’ voting rights. Due to the law’s contentious nature and poor implementation, coupled with a political environment that is becoming increasingly intimidating, we are requesting the Department of Justice’s assistance in overseeing the state’s monitoring of the election, including by providing poll-monitoring services in Wisconsin. In 2014, a U.S. district court noted that more than 300,000 Wisconsinites lacked the newly requisite form of identification, and that this population disproportionately included persons of color. Judge Lynn Adelman further observed that state officials “could not point to a single instance of known voter impersonation occurring in Wisconsin at any time in the recent past,” casting serious doubt on the official rationale for the policy. A second federal court determined earlier this summer that even the “safety net” built into the law to help voters who have trouble obtaining ID was a “wretched failure” that “disenfranchised citizens” who are “overwhelmingly African American and Latino.” Deeming the provision unconstitutional, Judge James Peterson mandated changes in practice and public education to ensure that that process better serves all Wisconsinites with documentation challenges in obtaining identification so they can vote. Concurring with Judge Adelman, Judge Peterson also expressed “misgivings about whether the law actually promotes confidence and integrity,” and observed that prior to 2011, “Wisconsin had an exemplary election system that produced high levels of voter participation without significant irregularities.” Unfortunately, since that court order in late July, we have continued to see how Wisconsin’s voter ID law puts the franchise of many Wisconsinites, particularly people of color, in real jeopardy. Over the last month, press reports have revealed that on numerous occasions, Wisconsin Department of Motor Vehicle employees provided erroneous and incomplete information to potential voters who are unable to obtain IDs due to a lack of required documentation (like a birth certificate), despite their eligibility for alternative credentials. These revelations led Judge Peterson to remark on October 12, “I'm very disappointed to see that the state really did nothing in response to my order,” noting that voters are “at the mercy of the DMV, and its staff wasn't trained well enough to guide people through it.” We are deeply troubled by the prospect of such misinformation contributing to voter disenfranchisement in this election. While further scrutiny by the federal court has prompted state officials to institute additional training and public education efforts at the DMV, there is entirely too much at stake in the limited time left before the election to let this continue without additional oversight. In addition to misinformation, we are also concerned about potential voter intimidation at the polling places, particularly in light of recent, high-profile rhetoric that alleges “election rigging.” National figures have suggested that there is widespread voter fraud in our country and have encouraged private citizens to monitor the voting behaviors of certain communities for potential misconduct. Given the flawed efforts thus far by state officials to properly implement this law, with proof of demonstrably false information having been disseminated to voters just days before the election, we fear that irreparable harm may result—particularly to voters of color, who disproportionately bear the brunt of these policies and any Election Day intimidation efforts. We ask the Department to provide any resources or assistance it can in order to help our state navigate these unsettling circumstances. For example, the Department has historically provided poll monitors on Election Day to help ensure that all eligible voters will be permitted to register and exercise their fundamental right to participate in our democracy. We therefore urge the Department of Justice to utilize any available election monitoring resources to ensure voters in Wisconsin are able to safely access the polls. The right to elect our public representatives is unrivaled in its importance to a fully functioning democracy. With few days remaining until the election, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to limit the amount of harm caused to our state’s voters. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for the Department of Justice’s ongoing efforts to ensure the fairness of all elections in our country. # # #
10.11.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) applauds action taken by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to purchase an additional $20 million worth of cheddar cheese, supporting food banks and other food assistance recipients. The decision was announced by Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today following a discussion with dairy producers in Westby. “Wisconsin dairy farmers are struggling due to low milk prices and other market conditions beyond their control,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I applaud the USDA for taking action to increase demand for dairy products, which strengthens Wisconsin’s economy, while also providing food banks with nutritional assistance. I will continue to support dairy farmers in western and central Wisconsin and look for additional steps that can be taken to help farmers during these difficult times.” Rep. Kind recently joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to USDA Secretary Vilsack urging him to take action to help bring stability to dairy prices. The letter, signed by Kind and a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives from Wisconsin and other dairy-producing states, detailed the current unfavorable market conditions for the dairy industry and urged the USDA to take all actions available in order to support U.S. dairy farmers. In June, Rep. Kind presented a comprehensive Dairy Action Plan to fix problems dairy farmers currently face. His plan intends to make federal farm programs more efficient, open new markets, expand agriculture research, pass comprehensive immigration reform, and encourage the next generation of family farmers.
09.21.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bipartisan bill to stop taxing student loan repayments for deceased or disabled borrowers and their families passed the House Ways & Means Committee. The bill now goes to the House floor for a full vote in the coming weeks. “The last thing our permanently disabled students or the parents of deceased students need to be concerned about is paying taxes on money they received from the government to repay student loans. This is the right thing to do, and with the passage of my legislation today we are closer to making sure that Wisconsin students and families are not left with an unfair tax bill at the end of the year,” said Rep. Kind. The Stop Taxing Death and Disability Act will make sure that an individual’s gross income does not include any amounts of debt discharged as a result of a student’s death or total and permanent disability. This exception would apply even if a parent of the deceased or disabled student received the loan on behalf of the student.
09.14.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s legislation to increase rail safety and provide needed resources for first responders, the RESPONSE Act, passed unanimously out of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. The bill is now headed to the House floor for a final vote. “With passage of the RESPONSE Act out of committee we are one step closer to providing our Wisconsin communities and first responders the support and resources they need to handle increased rail traffic. Communities across western and central Wisconsin are experiencing first-hand the negative impacts of increased rail traffic, and to address their concerns Congress needs to quickly pass this important legislation,” said Rep. Kind. The RESPONSE Act would establish a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council that would bring together agencies, technical experts, emergency responders and the private sector to review training, resources, best practices, and unmet needs related to emergency responders to railroad incidents. The companion bill, introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), passed the full Senate with broad bipartisan support.
09.13.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind wrote a letter to the House Energy and Commerce Committee requesting they take immediate action to bring up his bill to address the shortage of medical personnel at VA facilities. This would potentially help fill staffing shortages at both Tomah VA Medical Center, Wisconsin Veterans Home at King, and other veterans facilities in Wisconsin. “As I talk with both veterans and VA officials one of the biggest concerns they discuss is the problem of recruiting and retaining medical staff. Our veterans are entitled to the quality care they have earned and deserve, and as we have seen first-hand when there are staffing shortages they are not receiving it. I urge the House Energy and Commerce Committee to move my legislation forward so we can address the problem by providing additional incentives for health care professionals to work in our veterans facilities,” said Rep. Kind. Find full letter here. Rep. Kind’s bipartisan Veterans Access to Care Act, would designate VA medical facilities as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs). This designation would allow these sites to compete for National Health Service Corps fellows, which is a program that pays student loan repayment or gives scholarships to doctors, dentists, mental health professionals, nurses, or medical students who pledge to practice in a HPSA for at least two years.
09.08.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) sent a letter calling for Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald to investigate the Walker administration’s use of federal funds at the Wisconsin Veterans Home at King. This comes on the heels of deeply disturbing allegations of poor care, deteriorating facility conditions, and staffing shortages at the Wisconsin Veterans Home at King despite millions in surplus revenue each year. “In light of the recent allegations of poor treatment of our veterans at the Wisconsin Veterans Home at King, I am calling on Secretary McDonald to investigate how the Walker administration is using federal funds at the King facility. It is concerning that our Wisconsin veterans aren’t receiving the care they have earned and deserve while the Walker Administration is spending millions of dollars from the King facility to cover state budget shortfalls,” said Rep. Kind. Find a copy of the letter here.
09.06.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind was pleased to announce that the Eau Claire’s Veterans Assistance Foundation was rewarded a $625,331.00 Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Services for Veteran Families grant. “The Veterans Assistance Foundation has been dedicated to making sure Wisconsin veterans and their families have a place they can call home. With this Supportive Services for Veteran Families grant they will be able to continue their important work of eradicating veteran homelessness and help additional veterans find suitable housing,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Veterans Assistance Foundation, Inc. (VAF) is proud to have received the renewal of the Supportive Service for Veterans Families Program SSVF grant for the fiscal year (FY) 2017. VAF has first-hand knowledge that the housing first model works and is successful in achieving the goal of ending homelessness for our veteran population and their families. We have exceeded the number of veterans and families during the past years through the SSVF program in accomplishing the goal to end the homelessness of our veterans. We are excited and very proud to continue to be a partner in this magnificent endeavor,” said Don Roach, Executive Director of Veterans Assistance Foundation. Rep. Kind wrote a letter of support for the Veterans Assistance Foundation.
09.02.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement today in recognition of Labor Day, which is Monday, September 5th: “As we observe another Labor Day, we take time to recognize the contributions workers have had on Wisconsin and our nation. Growing up in a union household on the north side of La Crosse, I know the importance of America’s labor movement. Although we have come a long way in protecting the rights of workers, the fight is far from over. I will continue working to ensure workers have safe working conditions, the right to collectively bargain, and the ability to earn a fair wage.”
08.26.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced the winners of his 2016 National Park Service Centennial photo contest. “Thank you to all who sent in their favorite National Park memories,” Rep. Ron Kind said. “National Parks are a national treasure, and I look forward to continuing to celebrate the importance and beauty of protected lands for generations to come.” “I’m proud to announce the top three winners of the photo contest, whose photos will be displayed in my La Crosse, Eau Claire and Washington offices. Thank you to Tim and Danette Tritch of La Crosse, Eryn Cangi, and Emma Cleveland of Platteville for sharing your favorite National Park memories.” The winning submissions are attached, and are as follows: Danette Tritch at Grand Canyon National Park Eryn Cangi at Great Basin National Park Emma Cleveland at President’s Park (White House) The winning photos will be shared on Rep. Kind’s Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, and will also be printed and displayed in his offices in La Crosse, Eau Claire, and Washington, DC.
08.25.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) applauds recent action taken by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to purchase $20 million worth of cheese products for federal nutrition programs and food banks. Kind recently joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack urging him to take action to help bring stability to dairy prices. “Our dairy farmers have been hit hard by depressed farm milk prices, creating lower incomes and vulnerability at both the farm and at home,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I’m very pleased that Wisconsin farmers will receive help from the USDA by increasing demand for their dairy products, while also providing those relying on food banks for nutritional assistance with healthy, balanced meals. I applaud the USDA for its timely action, and will continue to fight to improve conditions for dairy farmers in western and central Wisconsin.” The letter, signed by Kind and a bipartisan group of Senators and Representatives from Wisconsin and other dairy-producing states, detailed the current unfavorable market conditions for the dairy industry. The group urged the USDA to take all actions available in order to support U.S. dairy farmers. In June, Rep. Kind unveiled a comprehensive Dairy Action Plan, to fix problems that dairy farmers are currently facing and provide relief for a looming drop in dairy prices. The plan looks to make federal farm programs more efficient, open new markets, expand agriculture research, pass comprehensive immigration reform, and encourage the next generation of family farmers.
08.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on Congress to go back into session and pass funding to combat the spread of Zika virus, in response to recent data from the Department of Health Services (DHS) confirming that there are 23 cases of Zika virus in Wisconsin. “Congress has a responsibility to ensure all Americans are safe from Zika virus,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “My colleagues in the House should reconvene immediately to provide funding for Zika, and act on the President’s request for the appropriate emergency funding for this outbreak. We cannot risk lives over partisan gridlock.” As of August 10, 2016, DHS has confirmed 23 cases of Zika virus in Wisconsin. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately 8,500 cases of Zika have been documented in the U.S. and its territories, and 17 babies have been born with Zika-related birth defects.
08.24.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, co-chair of the National Parks Caucus, released the following statement about tomorrow’s 100th Anniversary of the National Park Service (NPS): “Many of my favorite family memories center around the trips Tawni, the boys, and I take to our National Parks. As co-chair of the National Parks Caucus, I know that National Parks are sound investments for communities, jobs, and future generations. As we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, I will continue to work to find ways to fix the backlog of maintenance and staffing needs, increase accessibility, and encourage the younger generation to take advantage of these national treasures.” Wisconsin is home to multiple NPS areas, including the Saint Croix National Scenic Riverway, the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore, and the Ice Age National Historic Trail. The NPS hosted 300 million recreational visits in 2015, and maintains 879 visitor centers within the 410 NPS parks. The system employs more than 20,000 workers, and is assisted by 246,000 annual volunteers. While the FY2014 budget for NPS was $2.6 billion, National Parks are a sound investment for communities, as 240,000 mostly local jobs contribute nearly $27 billion to the U.S. economy. National Parks by the Numbers: $27 billion is contributed by the National Park Service to the U.S. Economy 84 million acres of land are maintained by the National Park Service 246,000 Volunteers donate 6.7 million hours of time annually to the National Park Service 240,000 mostly local jobs are supported by the National Park Service annually 27,000 historic and prehistoric structures are found within the National Park Service parks 18,000 miles of trails are housed within National Parks
07.22.2016	President Barack Obama signed U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, into law. This important legislation, named after a Wisconsin veteran who tragically passed away at the Tomah VA in 2014, helps fix a number of the problems that were seen at the Tomah VA. “Today, with President Obama signing the Jason Simcakoski Promise Act into law, we have made a significant step forward in addressing the opiate epidemic and giving veterans and their families the tools they need and the accountability they deserve. Much of the credit for this victory lies with the Simcakoski family, who have worked tirelessly with our office and others to make sure no other family has to go through what they have and create a legacy Jason would be proud of. I will continue to work with them and others to ensure our veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve,” said Rep. Kind Watch Rep. Kind’s floor speech on the bill here. This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, improves patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is supported by Disabled Veterans of America, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Paralyzed Veterans of America.
07.20.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled a plan to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive plan works to fix some of the problems that dairy farmers are currently facing and would provide some relief for the drop in dairy prices. “The past few years have been a trying time for many Wisconsin farmers and their families. With dairy prices falling to extreme lows and the cost of fuel and feed rising we need to take immediate action to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy. My comprehensive plan looks to make our federal farm programs more efficient, open new markets for our farmers, expand research, encourage the next generation of farmers, and pass comprehensive immigration reform,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive strategy to secure the future of Wisconsin dairy consists of five key principles: * Making programs Wisconsin dairy farmers use more effective and efficient * Encouraging the next generation of dairy farmers * Expanding agriculture research * Opening new markets for Wisconsin farmers * Comprehensive Immigration Reform To read the full plan to secure Wisconsin dairy, click here.
07.18.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that next week representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in multiple counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. “Our office is always working to be available and help residents of central and western Wisconsin navigate issues,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope that people will take advantage of these open office hours to come share their thoughts and seek help to solve problems they may be having with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people who are having issues dealing with the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Monday, July 25, 2016 4:30-5:30 p.m. Stevens Point Public Library - Rotary Room 1001 Main Street Stevens Point, WI 54481 Tuesday, July 26, 2016 8:30-9:30 a.m. Centralia Center 220 3rd Ave, South Wisconsin Rapids, WI 54495 10:00-11:00 a.m. McIntosh Memorial Library 205 S. Rock Avenue Viroqua, WI 54665 10:30-11:30 a.m. Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 54021 11:30-12:30 p.m. Adams Community Center 569 North Cedar Street Adams, WI 53910 1:00-2:00 p.m. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 2:00-3:00 p.m. Kratochwill Memorial Municipal Building 206 N. Wisconsin Avenue Muscoda, WI 53573 Wednesday, July 27, 2016 1:00-2:00 p.m. Cuba City Municipal Building 108 N. Main Street Cuba City, WI 53807 3:30-4:30 p.m. Sparta City Hall 201 W. Oak St. Sparta, WI Thursday, July 28, 2016 10:30-11:00 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 10:00-11:00 p.m. Hatch Public Library - Conference Room 111 West State Street Mauston, WI 53948 11:00-12:00 p.m. Crawford County Administration Building, Room 215 225 N. Beaumont Street Prairie du Chien, WI 53821 1:00-2:00 p.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI 54773 Friday, July 29, 2016 10:00-11:00 a.m. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 2:00-3:00 p.m. Wheeler Village Hall 105 W. Tower Road Wheeler, WI 54772
07.15.2016	Today, the Obama Administration announced that they launched a new trade enforcement action against the People’s Republic of China at the World Trade Organization (WTO) concerning China’s export duties on nine different raw materials. The export duties China imposes provide substantial competitive advantages for Chinese manufacturers and make it more expensive for U.S. manufacturers that rely on these raw materials to produce their goods. “The U.S.-China relationship is one of the most important global partnerships, but it must be based on the rule of law and enforceable standards. If a country is not living up to the agreements we have made then the United States must take enforcement action to hold them accountable,” said Rep. Kind. “Today’s action will level the playing field for our workers and businesses in Wisconsin’s aerospace, automotive, electronics, and food processing sectors.” The nine raw materials included in this action are antimony, cobalt, copper, graphite, lead, magnesia, talc, tantalum, and tin. Since 2009, the Administration has brought 22 enforcement actions at the WTO, and won every single one decided thus far.
07.13.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced legislation to give veteran parents of adult children, who are foreign citizens, a pathway to bring those children to the United States. This legislation puts in place common sense measures that are not currently in place for children over the age of 21. “Our veterans deserve to have a simple and legal pathway to bring their adult children to the United States. I was proud to work with Wisconsin veteran John Haines and others to introduce this important legislation,” said Congressman Ron Kind. “This whole experience has shown me that Democracy still works. Your cause must be just and you must be willing to see your cause through to the end, but if you do you see that America still works or at least it still works in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District! Remember as Margaret Mead said, ‘Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed citizens can change the world indeed, it's the only thing that ever has.’ Thank you to Rep. Kind and his staff for working with me on this important and life changing legislation,” said John Haines, father of a daughter who would be helped by this legislation. This bill creates a special visa category for the children of veterans who live abroad and wish to move to the United States. Veteran parents will be able to sponsor their child while they travel to the United States and prepare to take a citizenship test. Upon successfully completing the test, the individual will be converted to lawful permanent resident status.
07.08.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bipartisan legislation to fix the problems at the Tomah VA, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, passed the House with almost unanimous support. The legislation will now go to the Senate for a vote and then to the President’s desk. “Today, we have made a significant step forward in addressing the opiate epidemic and giving veterans and their families the tools they need and the accountability they deserve,” said Rep. Kind. “This is an all hands on deck moment. I was proud to work with the Simcakoski family to make sure no other family has to go through what they have and create a legacy Jason would be proud of.” Watch Rep. Kind’s floor speech on the bill here. This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, improves patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is supported by Disabled Veterans of America, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Paralyzed Veterans of America.
07.07.2016	La Crosse, WI – The House and Senate Conference Committee on the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act released their final bill late last night. The bill includes Rep. Kind’s legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, and will now go on to the House and Senate for a final vote. “My primary concern following the failures at the Tomah VA has been making sure that we fix the problems and provide our veterans the care they have earned and deserve. Today, we have made a significant step forward in giving veterans and their families the accountability they deserve and putting an end to the over prescription and reliance on highly addictive pain medication,” said Rep. Kind. "Much of the credit for this victory lies with the Simcakoski family, who have worked tirelessly with our office and others to make sure no other family has to go through what they have and create a legacy Jason would be proud of.” Rep. Kind has been a strong advocate for making sure the problems at the Tomah VA never happen again. In May, the House passed his legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which would address over prescription of pain medicine in the VA and help families have a voice in the care their loved ones are receiving. Additionally, provisions of his Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 have passed into law.
07.06.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bipartisan legislation H.R. 1270, the Restoring Access to Medication Act passed the House. This legislation would restore the ability for Wisconsin families to use the funds in their Health Savings Account, Flexible Spending Account, Health Reimbursement Account, or Archer MSA to purchase over-the-counter medications. “As the health care environment shifts towards higher deductibles and out of pocket expenses, Wisconsin families rely more and more on health savings accounts (HSA) and flexible savings accounts (FSA) to help cover health care costs,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am proud we were able to pass my common sense bipartisan legislation to guarantee that families are able to purchase the items they need to help ensure that the healthy choice is the easy choice for life.” Rep. Kind has been working to make sure that every Wisconsinite has access to affordable high-quality health care.
07.05.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) sent a letter to Governor Walker calling on him to implement the Federal Rail Administration (FRA) State Rail Safety Participation Program in Wisconsin. States that participate in this program receive an increased number of rail safety inspections, which play a critical role in ensuring the safety of the railroad system in their states. “With increasing rail traffic along the Mississippi and through communities across Wisconsin we need to take every available action to make sure communities are safe from train derailments,” said Rep. Kind. “Today, I called on Governor Walker to follow the actions of our neighbors in Minnesota and implement the State Rail Safety Participation Program in Wisconsin. By joining this program, we can take preventative measures to avoid catastrophic rail accidents and ensure the health and safety of our communities.” Read the letter here. In 2015, state rail inspectors discovered over 50,000 safety deficiencies that FRA inspectors failed to find. Over 31 States currently participate in the State Rail Safety Participation Program and receive a number of benefits. States in the program hire rail inspectors in addition to FRA inspectors and receive increased rail safety inspections.
06.22.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Wasteful Defense Spending Reduction Act, which puts in place an expedited process to cut wasteful defense spending and pay down the national debt. “Currently, the United States spends billions of taxpayer dollars on wasteful and outdated defense programs, many of which of military leaders have said they do not want. That is unacceptable and must change. By putting in place a commission to review and recommended commonsense cuts to our defense programs we can pay down our national debt and save taxpayer money,” said Congressman Ron Kind. “With Pentagon spending spiraling so far out of control, with an aversion to making choices and setting priorities, with too little oversight, and with so much waste that it is actually creating the risk of making us less secure, critical thinking leading to legislation forcing strategic planning that could result in not just more reasonable spending, but also a stronger defense, is sorely needed,” said John Tierney, Executive Director of Council for a Livable World and the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation. This legislation sets up an eleven member commission to review our defense programs and recommend wasteful and outdated programs to be eliminated. Following the release of the commission’s report Congress will have 90 days to vote on a joint resolution of approval to enact the recommendations in their entirety. Ever since his time working for Senator Bill Proxmire of Wisconsin, investigating wasteful government spending programs for his Golden Fleece Awards, Rep. Kind has been dedicated to finding ways to save taxpayer money. He has worked to end crop insurance programs that give millions away to big agribusiness at the expense of family farmers and fought to keep rapidly rising health care costs low. Additionally, each year he finds savings in his office budget and to date have given back over $1.7 million to pay down the national debt.
06.22.2016	Village of Merrillan, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announces that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development has awarded the Village of Merrillan a grant to assist in funding for Village departmental needs. The funds from the grant will be used for an enclosed mower with snow removal equipment, a new police squad vehicle, and a used fire engine. “It is important that our rural Villages are able to provide the same services and safety as every town and city in Western and Central Wisconsin,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Village of Merrillan is very deserving of the grant from the USDA Rural Development.” “We struggle to maintain budgets and Federal grants help assist the Village,” said Margaret Young, Zoning Administrator for the Village of Merrillan. “We want to express our heartfelt thanks to Congressman Ron Kind and his office for his support of Federal grants.”
06.21.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind applauded the announcement that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development has awarded the Village of Muscoda a Community Facility Direct Loan/Grant to assist in the construction and development of a new public library. The funding will create more space for children’s programs, handicap accessibility, and an expanded large-print and audio media section. “This is great news for the Village of Muscoda and surrounding communities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Investing in projects that build community and foster educational opportunities for children and older Americans is especially needed in rural areas in Central and Western Wisconsin.” The project has an expected completion date in the Fall of 2016, and will create a campus-like environment with the Riverdale School District, athletic fields, and the new library. “The new library represents growth for Muscoda and the surrounding area,” said Dorothy Hackl, President of the Village of Muscoda, “We’re excited to provide more opportunities for everyone in the Village – young and old.”
06.21.2016	Village of Muscoda, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind applauded the announcement from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development that the Village of Muscoda will receive a Community Facility Direct Loan to assist in the construction and development of a new public library. The funding will create more space for children’s programs, handicap accessibility, and an expanded large-print and audio media section. “This is great news for the Village of Muscoda and surrounding communities,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Investing in projects that build community and foster educational opportunities for children and older Americans is especially needed in rural areas in Central and Western Wisconsin.” “The new library represents growth for Muscoda and the surrounding area,” said Dorothy Hackl, President of the Village of Muscoda, “We’re excited to provide more opportunities for everyone in the Village – young and old.” The project has an expected completion date in the Fall of 2016, and will create a campus-like environment with the Riverdale School District, athletic fields, and the new library.
06.16.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the bipartisan Agricultural Environmental Stewardship Act, to provide tax incentives for farmers and rural electric cooperatives to invest in biogas technology. “Wisconsin’s agriculture industry is responsible for $88.3 billion in economic activity and 413,500 jobs, which is why it is important to find ways to help farmers reduce their costs and continue to grow. One commonsense step is to provide tax incentives for farmers to reduce their energy costs and waste by pursuing biogas technology,” said Congressman Kind. “As President and CEO of the largest Wisconsin-based dairy cooperative and a member of the National Milk Producers Federation Board of Directors, I support the introduction of the Agriculture Environmental Stewardship Act. Foremost Farms is owned by 1,500 dairy farmers from throughout the Upper Midwest that take manure management and sustainability very seriously as original stewards of the land. It is important to offer affordable environmental nutrient management solutions. I thank Congressman Kind for taking a lead role in this important legislation,” said Michael Doyle, President and CEO, Foremost Farms USA The Agricultural Environmental Stewardship Act promotes investment by allowing biogas technology to qualify for an energy tax credit that is on-par with the 30% tax credit for solar energy. The legislation is geared toward properties that use anaerobic digesters or other biological, chemical, thermal, or mechanical processes to make biogas that is at least 52% methane as well as nutrient recovery systems which make digesters run more efficiently and reduce harmful waste runoff.
06.09.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) co-sponsored two pieces of legislation to provide state and local law enforcement access to additional resources to help those addicted to drugs get the treatment they need instead of being put through an endless cycle of incarceration. “In my meetings with local law enforcement officials across western and central Wisconsin one of the key topics we discussed was the need to provide more resources to help get those who are suffering from addiction the treatment they need instead of continually putting them in jail,” said Congressman Ron Kind. “While La Crosse is already leading the charge with their drug treatment courts more can be done to help local officials. These two pieces of legislation will provide increased education, access to Naloxone, and grants for those law enforcement agencies looking at implementing innovative solutions to address the problem.” “For years society has thought we could arrest our way out of the problem. However, it is clear the key to addressing opiate addiction is increased access to treatment facilities and mental health care providers,” said Ronald Tischer, La Crosse Chief of Police. “We in the law enforcement field are encouraged that the federal government has recognized the significant impact of opiate addiction on the communities across our country, and I believe that we as a society are moving down the right path to address opiate addiction.” Read Rep. Kind’s full Drug Epidemic Action Plan here. H.R. 2805, the Heroin and Prescription Opioid Abuse Prevention, Education, and Enforcement Act works to combat the current opioid and heroin addiction epidemic through a multi-step approach. These steps include public education, establishing prescription guidelines, reauthorizing funding for Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, and funding to increase Naloxone availability. H.R. 4654, the Keeping Communities Safe Through Treatment Act will allow Police Officers the discretion to divert individuals committing low-level drug offenses into pre-booking diversion and treatment programs as opposed to incarceration.
06.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind attended Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to a joint session of Congress. Following the address, Rep. Kind is calling for Prime Minister Modi to take steps to remove barriers that have kept Wisconsin dairy exporters from being able to sell their products in India. “Today, I had the pleasure of listening as Prime Minister Modi, the Leader of the world's largest democracy, addressed a Joint Session of Congress. He reaffirmed our bonds of affection and strategic partnership. I hope that going forward we can continue to work together to level the playing field for workers and businesses, including opening Indian markets to Wisconsin dairy products” said Rep. Kind. “At a time when the US is facing a surplus of dairy products India, one of the world’s biggest and fastest-growing dairy markets, offers an untapped market for Wisconsin dairy producers to sell their goods in.” For the past 13 years, India has imposed unwarranted sanitary and phytosanitary requirements on dairy imports, which have deprived Wisconsin’s thriving dairy industry access to India, one of the world’s largest and growing dairy markets. India must commit to science- and risk-based food safety regulations and procedures that are based on international standards. Rep. Kind will continue to work with the United States Trade Representative and Tim Roemer, Former Ambassador to India, to look into ways to open the Indian markets to Wisconsin dairy producers.
06.02.2016	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that seven western and central Wisconsin students, whom he nominated, have accepted offers of appointment at one of the United States' Service Academies. “I couldn’t be prouder of these five young men and women,” said Rep. Kind. “These outstanding students exemplify the best of western and central Wisconsin. By having accepted the appointment not only will they receive a superb education, but they will be serving our country. I look forward following their success as they bring their talent and commitment to serving to our nation’s service academies.” Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District Service Academy attendees: Kelsey Linzmeyer, of Onalaska, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Izaiah LaDuke, of Cochrane, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Hanna Guckenberg, of Eau Claire, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Justin Chilson, of Eelva, plans to attend the United States Air Force Academy Benjamin King, of Stoddard, plans to attend the United States Naval Academy Nathaniel Buss, of Mauston, plans to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point Kirsten Olson, of Holmen, plans to attend the United States Military Academy at West Point Every year Rep. Kind has the honor of nominating outstanding high school students to four of the five service academies. Students who wish to receive a nomination must go through a competitive application process and then be selected by a panel of local veterans and community leaders.
06.01.2016	Stevens Point, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind held a roundtable discussion with State Senator Julie Lassa, Portage and Wood county law enforcement officials and health professionals. They discussed Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan and the ways that various public and private stakeholders can work together to help solve the problem. “This is an all hands on deck moment. We need a strong partnership at the federal, state, and local levels, along with private health care providers to put an end to the growing drug epidemic. It was productive to hear directly from local officials about the ways we can work together going forward to update pain management practices, break the cycle of incarceration, and ensure people get the help they need,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “In Wisconsin Rapids we have seen up close and personal the negative impact the growing drug epidemic is having on our community and our citizens. I was glad to join Rep. Kind to discuss the difficulties law enforcement face when dealing with the problem, and I look forward to working with him in the future to address the ongoing issues,” said Kurt Heurer, Chief of Police in Wisconsin Rapids. Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan consists of five key components: Expand available resources for law enforcement and individuals struggling with addiction Review and improve prescribing practices for prescription pain medication Expand access to mental health care Encourage alternative pain treatment programs Increase Wisconsin’s Medicaid funding through federal expansion Read the full plan here.
05.31.2016	Tomah, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind attended the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee’s field hearing about the Tomah VA and highlighted the need to continue to work together to pass legislation that will make sure the problems seen there never happen again. “Today’s hearing highlighted the importance of veterans and their families, health care professionals, VA leadership, and federal officials working together to make sure the problems seen at the Tomah VA never happen again. Moving forward our focus must remain on making it easier for veterans to receive quality care and increasing transparency and oversight at the VA,” said Rep. Kind. “I am deeply disturbed by the failure on the part of the VA Inspector General to act on numerous troubling allegations. With my bill to increase transparency and require the VA Inspector General to publicly release their reports being signed into law, we have taken proactive steps to fix the problem. Our work is far from done, but we are moving in the right direction.” Rep. Kind has worked tirelessly to make sure that the issues seen at the Tomah VA never happen again, and Wisconsin veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve. He helped start the investigation into the problems at Tomah, by sending a 2011 anonymous letter the office received to the VA Inspector general. He is working to fix prescribing practices for pain medicine, passing the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act. Also, he remains in close contact with veterans, leadership at the Tomah VA, and the Department of Veterans Affairs to stay up to date on the changes they are implementing.
05.25.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind unveiled his comprehensive action plan to address the growing drug epidemic that has been plaguing communities and families across western and central Wisconsin. In putting his plan together, Rep. Kind held discussions with local law enforcement, health care professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction. “Over the past several months I have held listening sessions in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District, and one of the most prominent issues that comes up is the negative impact the growing drug epidemic is having on families and communities,” said Rep. Kind. “This is an all hands on deck moment because it's only getting worse out there. “After talking with local law enforcement, health care professionals, drug treatment officials, and families of those suffering from addiction I have put together a comprehensive plan to address the problem. My drug epidemic action plan will encourage more integration between law enforcement, medical personnel, and treatment centers, update prescribing practices for pain medication, and expand access to mental health care.” Rep. Kind’s Drug Epidemic Action Plan consists of five key components: Expand available resources for law enforcement and individuals struggling with addiction Review and improve prescribing practices for prescription pain medication Expand access to mental health care Encourage alternative pain treatment programs Increase Wisconsin’s Medicaid funding through federal expansion. Read the full plan here.
05.19.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted for legislation to make sure that the Department of Veterans Affairs has the funding necessary to provide veterans with quality care, increase access to crisis services, and provide additional transparency and accountability. “Our men and women in uniform serve with honor, and they deserve the best we can offer. Unfortunately, as we saw first-hand at the Tomah VA last year, they do not always receive the quality care and services they deserve. “The passage of today’s legislation to fund the VA will move us one step closer to making sure we keep our promises to our veterans. I was pleased to see that they included language to look into alternative pain management practices, make sure those suffering from an addiction to pain medication aren’t waiting an excessive amount of time to get treatment, and that Inspector General Reports are publically available within 30 days of completion,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind has been a strong advocate for making sure the problems at the Tomah VA never happen again. Last week, the House passed his legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which would address over prescription of pain medicine in the VA and help families have a voice in the care their loved ones are receiving. Additionally, provisions of his Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 have passed into law.
05.17.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) sent a letter to House Leadership requesting that in light of the Senate’s passage of the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation (RESPONSE) Act the House take action to bring the bill to the floor for a vote. Rep. Kind worked with Sen. Heitkamp to introduce the legislation, which helps first responders deal with the negative impacts of a train derailment or fuel spill. “With the Senate taking action to unanimously pass their version of the RESPONSE Act it is time for the House to follow suit and bring the bill to the floor for a vote. Our first responders and local communities deserve to have the tools and training they need to react quickly and effectively in case of an emergency. I hope my colleagues in the House will swiftly pass this bill,” said Rep. Kind. The RESPONSE Act would create a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council to bring together agencies, emergency responders, technical experts, and the private sector to review training, best practices, resources and unmet needs related to railroad incidents. The subcommittee would provide recommendations to Congress within one year on emergency responder training and resource allocation, addressing quality of training, funding levels, and improving the flow of information to local first responders. Read the full letter here.
05.12.2016	La Crosse, WI – Last night, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bipartisan legislation to ensure student athletes and their families have access to educational resources about the possible negative effects of prescription pain medication passed the U.S. House of Representatives. “With incidents of prescription pain medicine abuse on the rise across the country we need to make sure that those most at risk, including student athletes, have access to educational resources about the addictive nature of certain pain medication,” said Rep. Kind. “By passing my legislation student athletes, their families, and their coaches will have the information they need to make an informed and safe decision when it comes to pain management.” Rep. Kind’s legislation, H.R. 4969, directs the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide for informational materials to educate and prevent addiction in teenagers and adolescents who are injured playing youth sports and subsequently prescribed an opioid.
05.12.2016	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that the Southwest Opportunities Center in Lancaster was awarded a $23,140 USDA Rural Development Grant to go towards the development their greenhouse project. “Lancaster’s Southwest Opportunities Center has been doing impressive and innovative work to grow the local economy and provide healthy local food. I was proud to work with them and USDA to find the funding for their new greenhouse project, which will create more jobs producing and selling tomatoes in the Lancaster area,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Southwest Opportunities Center was fortunate to receive financial support through the Rural Development- USDA grant to assist with the development of our SunGarden Greenhouse business. These funds were used for the building construction of the facility and to purchase a delivery vehicle to transport and market our produce. With the development of a year-round, hydroponic greenhouse we will be providing fresh, locally grown tomatoes to businesses, organizations and families in Southwest Wisconsin as well as providing work and training opportunities to the individuals we serve,” said Audrey Gaio-Johnston, Executive Director of Southwest Opportunities Center, Inc. Rep. Kind wrote a letter to USDA on behalf of the Southwest Opportunities Center. In addition, he helped Viola and Fennimore secure USDA Rural Development grants for waste water projects.
05.10.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s bipartisan legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, passed the United States House of Representatives with strong bipartisan support. This legislation is named in honor of Jason Simcakoski, a Wisconsin veteran who tragically lost his life last year, and fixes a number of problems seen at the Tomah VA, including looking into improved pain management practices. “Today I was honored to be joined by Jason’s mother Linda, wife Heather, and daughter Anaya as the House passed our legislation to make sure no other veterans and their families have to go through what the Simcakoski family and others have had to,” said Rep. Kind. “With the passage of the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act we are one step closer to ensuring veteran patients and their families have a real role in VA oversight and providing health care professionals better training on the negative effects of prescription painkillers. I will continue to work with Jason’s family to make sure that his legacy is remembered and all veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve.” “It was an honor to be present while a bill that brings meaning to Jason’s life passed the House. By passing this law, we protect our most courageous and honored citizens – our veterans, their families and our communities. I cannot think of anything more important or valuable than saving lives – veteran’s lives. I am grateful to Rep. Kind for all of his hard work to make sure that our veterans receive the care they deserve,” said Heather Simcakoski, Jason’s widow. “The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is an important piece of history. Helping our veterans get the best care possible is the ultimate goal. The guidelines in the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act will help the VA give our veterans and service men and women the best health care they deserve. Our family doesn’t want to see what happened to our son Jason happen to another veteran or service person,” said Jason’s father Marvin Simcakoski. This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, improves patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is similar to the Jason Simcakoski Memorial Opioid Safety Act in the Senate. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is supported by Disabled Veterans of America, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Paralyzed Veterans of America.
05.03.2016	La Crosse, WI – Last week, Fair Shake, a web and software based reentry program based in Westby, was one of ten organizations nationwide selected by The White House as a Champion of Change for Expanding Fair Chance Opportunities. Fair Shake works to reduce the prison recidivism rate by providing engagement opportunities and resources for both incarcerated individuals and recently released individuals. “Congratulations to Fair Shake and Sue Kastensen for being named a Champion of Change for Expanding Fair Chance Opportunities. It is an enormous and well-deserved honor. I am impressed by the work Fair Shake is doing to help recently released and incarcerated individuals to prepare to reenter society and the job market. It is not an easy transition, and we must all work together to find ways to lower the recidivism rate and break the endless cycle of incarceration,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind met with Fair Shake founder and director Sue Kastensen while she was in D.C. to congratulate her on the recognition and discuss the important work Fair Shake is doing back home in Wisconsin.
04.29.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, which would open up the flood insurance market to allow more private businesses to compete and possibly lower prices. Currently, the main option for property owners needing to purchase flood insurance is the National Flood Insurance Program. “For the thousands of Wisconsinites who live in communities along the Mississippi River and in flood hazard areas the cost of flood insurance is a necessary but significant financial burden. By opening the flood insurance market to competition from private companies we will allow people to shop around and hopefully find the best deal for them. I hope my colleagues in the Senate will bring up this important legislation and give options to the millions of people who are required to purchase flood insurance,” said Rep. Kind. “With La Crosse’s unique flood plain characteristics, coupled with not having a significant flood event in many years the, city needs a more accurate evaluation of the flood risk. I am encouraged to see private industry being brought back into the conversation to assess that risk,” said Doug Kerns, Floodplain Manager City of La Crosse. Rep. Kind continues to work with homeowners, property owners, community leaders, the local government, state government, and federal government to try and ease the financial burden of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
04.27.2016	La Crosse, Wis. – Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, along with Senators Tim Scott (R-SC), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH), introduced the Investing in Opportunity Act of 2016, a bipartisan bill that creates an incentive for entrepreneurs and businesses to invest in economically distressed communities across the country. “While economic conditions in communities in Wisconsin have been improving there are still too many distressed communities that haven’t had access to the investments they need to provide good-paying jobs. It is time we take steps to fix this problem. The Investing in Opportunity Act will partner Wisconsin communities with investors to increase the level of investment in distressed areas, level the playing field for those communities, and help create good-paying jobs where we need them the most,” said Rep. Kind. The bill comes at the heels of the Economic Innovation Group’s unveiling of the Distressed Communities Index, an index that ranks every ZIP code area in America on seven measures related to education, income, unemployment, poverty, vacant housing, growth in number of businesses and growth in unemployment. Milwaukee and other rural communities in Wisconsin are high on the list, as reported by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel last August. The most distressed communities in the district include: Readstown, Adams, Merrillan, Friendship and Bagley, with Distress Scores of 93.1%, 89%, 88.4%, 87.2%, 84.9%, respectively. According to the EIG Index, 14% of people in the district are living below the poverty line, 9% do not hold a high school degree, and 38% of adults (age 16+) are not working. The Investing in Opportunity Act of 2016 opens the door to private capital in the following ways: ● Removes a barrier to investment through a temporary capital gains deferral in exchange for reinvesting in distressed communities ● Encourages investors from across the nation to pool resources through newly-created “Opportunity Funds” -- established specifically for making investments in distressed communities ● Concentrates capital by establishing “Opportunity Zones” -- geographically targeted low-income areas that will be designated by governors ● Provides incentives for investors to make long-term commitments to these communities
04.22.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that he is returning $125,547.82 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the national debt. Rep. Kind has found savings in his congressional budget every year since taking office, and has returned over $1.7 million to taxpayers. “Ever since my time working for Senator Bill Proxmire of Wisconsin, investigating wasteful government spending programs for his Golden Fleece Award, I have worked to find ways to save taxpayer money,” said Rep. Kind. “I approach my office budget the same way thousands of Wisconsinites approach their family budgets, by looking to find areas to save and ways to maximize money. Today, I am proud to announce that in 2016 my office was able to return over $125,000 to pay down the national debt.” Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Ron Kind has continuously worked to promote fiscal responsibility. Rep. Kind has maintained his giveback practice every year he has been in Washington and in total has now returned more than $1.7 million. Rep. Kind is also a firm supporter of spending reform – specifically in the areas of rapidly rising healthcare costs, outdated defense systems, and agricultural subsidies that benefit large agribusinesses as opposed to family farmers.
04.20.2016	La Crosse, WI– Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to Wisconsin Attorney General Schimel calling for him to investigate claims that the new voter id law was designed specifically to block voters and violate Wisconsinites’ constitutional rights. This comes weeks after Republican officials in Wisconsin suggested that Wisconsin’s new voter ID law was designed to prevent certain Wisconsinites from voting.“The recent comments by Wisconsin Republican officials clearly acknowledge what many Wisconsinites already know: the voter ID law was intentionally designed to prevent certain groups from participating in the democratic process. This is not only an egregious constitutional rights violation, but also an attack on Wisconsin’s long history of protecting the right to vote,” said Rep. Kind. “I am calling on Attorney General Schimel to do his job and immediately begin an investigation into their validity. I will not stand idly by while the constitutional rights of Wisconsinites are being infringed upon.”Find a full copy of the letter here.Rep. Kind has long fought to ensure that veterans, seniors, minorities, students and disabled Wisconsinites are able to exercise their right to vote. -30-
04.19.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure student athletes and their families have access to educational resources about the possible negative effects of prescription pain medication. “Our top priority must always be the safety of our children. It is common for student athletes to be injured while playing sports, and they are increasingly being prescribed pain medication for those injuries. With a rapid rise in the abuse of pain medication we need to be providing students and parents access to reliable and accurate information about the addictive nature of certain pain medication,” said Rep. Kind. Rep. Kind’s legislation, H.R. 4969, directs the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to provide for informational materials to educate and prevent addiction in teenagers and adolescents who are injured playing youth sports and subsequently prescribed an opioid.
04.15.2016	This coming Monday, April 18th is Tax Day and U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is highlighting the need for a more simple and fair tax system. The current tax system is outdated and overly complicated. Rep. Kind has long pushed for comprehensive tax reform, which would simplify and streamline our tax code. “Far too many hardworking Wisconsinites and small businesses struggle each year to file their taxes because of our burdensome and complicated tax system. We need to be putting policies in place that would simplify the process and make it work for hardworking people not just large corporations and special interests,” said Rep. Kind. Earlier this week Rep. Kind introduced bipartisan legislation that would help bring tax fairness to Indian tribes. His legislation would allow tribal governments to be treated the same ways as other governments in a number of ways, including better access to child support collection and tax credits for adoption of special needs children.
04.13.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and La Crosse Regional Airport will receive grants from the Department of Transportation to help make needed improvements. These grants will go towards helping improve runways and to replace equipment in the air traffic control tower. “Thousands of people across western Wisconsin depend on regional airports. These grants will go a long way towards helping the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and La Crosse Regional Airport ensure they can continue seamless operations and provide passengers the best experience,” said Rep. Kind. “This grant is important to the continued operations of the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and the 20-30,000 aircraft that utilize the airport each year,” said a representative from the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport. The Chippewa Valley Regional Airport will receive $387,000 in funding and the La Crosse Regional Airport will receive $270,000. Find the full grant announcement here and here.
04.01.2016	This week U.S. Rep. Ron Kind will join Speaker Paul Ryan on a bipartisan trip to Europe, Israel, and several Sunni nations. They will discuss counterterrorism efforts and ways we can cooperate and coordinate to dismantle ISIS. Rep. Kind will speak with EU leaders about his call to create a coordinated counterterrorism task force and work with Sunni nations to find ways to isolate the problem. “The attacks in Paris and Brussels reminded us that the threat from terrorism is global and will require a global response. As I travel this week to Europe, Israel, and some Sunni Nations I will be focused on finding ways to expand and better coordinate counterterrorism efforts. Greater cooperation and increased sharing of counterterrorism intelligence will ensure we are able to identify and prevent terrorist plots before they are carried out,” said Rep. Kind. In the wake of the Brussels attack Rep. Kind, former chair of the US-EU Caucus, sent a letter to European Union leadership urging them to develop an integrated counterterrorism task force composed of all European nations.
04.01.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind visited the Klar family to meet Hadassa and see how she is adjusting to life in her new home. Although Hadassa’s adoption was approved in January of 2015, and her US passport and visa were issued, the Klars were forced to wait until March of 2016 to be united because the DRC had indefinitely suspended issuing exit permits for internationally-adopted children. “It was wonderful to meet Hadassa and see what a smart, happy, and energetic girl she is. You can immediately tell how excited she is to be at home with her family. I look forward to watching as Hadassa continues to thrive in her new home and community,” said Rep. Kind. “It is important to note that while Hadassa’s story has had a happy ending there are many children who are still waiting in the DRC to come home. I will continue to work to ensure that all adopted children are able to come home to their families.” Attached is a photo of Rep. Kind with Hadassa and her mother Erin Klar. Recently Rep. Kind and the Wisconsin delegation sent a letter to President Obama asking him to encourage the DRC to issue more exit permits. Additionally, Rep. Kind sent a letter to the Congolese Ambassador requesting the government lift their ban on issuing exit permits to children being adopted by US families.
03.30.2016	US Customs and Border Patrol, for the first time since 2001, seized goods produced using forced labor. It was Rep. Kind’s hard work and legislation that allowed for the seizure of these items. “The seizure of goods by Customs and Border Patrol is a great example of the real impact my legislation is having. We are finally able to seize goods that were manufactured by forced, child, and slave labor,” said Rep. Kind. “It is the responsibility of the United States to lead the way in setting labor standards on the products we accept, and these actions are a step in the right direction towards ending the exploitation of workers around the world.” Earlier this year President Obama signed into law Rep. Kind’s legislation to amend the Tariff Act of 1930. The legislation closes an 85 year loophole that allowed the importation of goods produced using slave labor. This legislation was included in the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015.
03.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the Rural Main Street Investment Credit Act of 2016. This legislation would help generate investment in both start up and expanding rural businesses with between one and five employees located in distressed areas by providing a federal tax incentive, in the form of a 35 percent tax credit. “With the changing economy more and more people are starting their own businesses in distressed areas. These businesses typically start out very small and often face significant barriers in securing financing from traditional banks,” said Rep. Kind. “In order to help these businesses thrive and grow I introduced legislation that would provide entrepreneurs with a tax incentive to drive investment in distressed rural communities and free up money for them to reinvest in small businesses. If businesses in distressed areas thrive they will help the community thrive.” The Rural Main Street Investment Credit Act of 2016 would help drive investment in businesses in distressed rural communities all over Wisconsin. According to a recent analysis by the Economic Innovation Group these communities would include Adams, Friendship, Merrillan, Readstown, and Bagley. Qualifying businesses must be owner operated business with five or fewer employees and annual gross revenues that do not exceed $1 million.
03.22.2016	Following the horrific attacks in Brussels this morning U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the below statement calling for the EU to create an integrated counterterrorism task force: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Brussels. Today reminded everyone that the threat from terrorism is global and will require a global response. As former chair of the US-EU Caucus, I am calling on the European Union to develop an integrated counterterrorism task force composed of all European nations.” “As we continue to operate in a world faced with increasing terrorist threats we need greater cooperation in sharing counterterrorism intelligence so we can identify and prevent terrorist plots before they are carried out. Additionally, we must look at ways to embed US intelligence officials in key areas around the world. The more our intelligence agencies and our allies are on the same page and working together, the safer we will be.”
03.16.2016	President Obama announced he will nominate Judge Merrick Garland, Chief Judge of the DC Circuit Court of Appeals, to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement: “The American people elected President Obama to a four year term not a three year term. President Obama has done his job and put forth a qualified nominee in Judge Garland. It is now time for the U.S. Senate to do their job, as required by the Constitution, and hold confirmation hearings on Judge Garland. I hope my Republican colleagues put their constitutional responsibility and the wishes of the American people ahead of partisanship and gridlock,” said Rep. Kind.
03.10.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind urged Canadian Pacific Railroad and BNSF Railway to consider Wisconsin’s outdoor traditions when conducting business throughout the region. This request comes after many people reached out with concerns about their ability to access the Mississippi River for activities such as hunting, fishing, and wildlife watching due to the railroad right of way along the river. “As an avid sportsman I understand the frustration people are feeling over being unable to access their favorite outdoor spots. However, we must take safety into account. I am encouraging public stakeholders, local officials, and the railroad companies to work together to find a solution that will give our residents the ability to fully access the Mississippi River and provide for the safety of the public,” said Rep. Kind. Find copies of the letters here and here.
03.08.2016	Over the weekend the Klar family returned from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) with their daughter Hadassa. Although Hadassa’s adoption was approved in January of 2015, and her US passport and visa were issued, the Klars were forced to wait to be united because the DRC had indefinitely suspended issuing exit permits for internationally-adopted children. “I am so happy to hear that Hadassa is finally at home with her family, where she belongs. In the coming months I look forward to following Hadassa’s journey as she is welcomed into her new community,” said Rep. Kind. “While we were able to help the Klar family bring their daughter home there are still many families whose children have not received exit permits. I will continue to work to ensure that all adopted children from the DRC are able to come home to their families.” Attached is a photo of the Klar family with Hadassa when she arrived at the La Crosse Airport. Rep. Kind’s office worked with the State Department over several months to get Hadassa an exit permit. Additionally, Rep. Kind sent a letter to the Congolese Ambassador requesting the government lift their ban on issuing exit permits to children being adopted by US families.
03.03.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the below statement on President Obama’s visit to Milwaukee to celebrate Milwaukee’s work to get uninsured individuals to take advantage of the Affordable Care Act and sign up for health insurance: “Congratulations to Milwaukee on winning the “Healthy Communities Challenge”. Milwaukee worked hard to reach out and encourage Wisconsin’s uninsured to take advantage of affordable and quality health insurance offered because of the Affordable Care Act.” “Since 2013 the uninsured rate in Wisconsin has dropped from 11.7% to 5.9%, which shows the great work the Affordable Care Act is doing to help people get health insurance. With the passage of the ACA we have seen the largest and fastest reduction of the uninsured rate since Medicare was created.” “While this award is a great accomplishment it also highlights the need for Governor Walker to put partisan politics aside and finally accept federal Medicaid expansion money, just as 10 other republican governors have done. That simple step on his part would help thousands more Wisconsinites afford health insurance.” “I look forward to continuing to work with President Obama and others willing to ensure that all Wisconsinites have access to affordable and quality health care.”
03.02.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the leaders on the House Education and the Workforce Committee to move forward on H.R. 649, the Student Loan Refinancing Act, which would allow people to refinance their student loans. Allowing refinancing of student loans was a key point in Rep. Kind’s 2016 College Affordability Action Plan. “Over the past few months I have traveled to campuses across western and central Wisconsin to discuss my College Affordability Action Plan. One of the most common topics discussed was the need to allow people to refinance student loans. At each I stop I heard stories from people about how they are paying their loans but can’t get ahead because of high interest rates,” said Rep. Kind. “We must not waste any more time. I am calling on the House Education and the Workforce Committee to move forward on the Student Loan Refinancing Act.” The Student Loan Refinancing Act, introduced by Rep. Pocan, takes a bipartisan common sense approach to student loan refinancing. Find a copy of the letter here. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive strategy to help make college more affordable consists of five key principles: The Government Shouldn’t Profit From Student Loans Allow People to Refinance Student Loans – Like Mortgages Extend and Expand Tax Incentives to Increase College Affordability for Students and Families Make Sure Students Have Access to Affordable Job Training Programs Permanently Extend the Perkins Loan Program To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here.
03.01.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind requested that when creating a budget for 2017 the House Appropriations Committee increase funding for two vital programs to ensure our veterans receive support they need. “One of the complaints I hear often from veterans and their families is the lack of mental health resources to help them deal with issues like Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, re-entry into civilian life, and other issues,” said Rep. Kind. “Our veterans have sacrificed so much for our country and it is our duty to ensure they have access to the resources they need when they return to civilian life, which is why I am urging an increase in funding for the Veterans Crisis Line and Suicide Prevention Program.” The Veterans Crisis Line is a toll-free hotline that veterans, military members, or family members of veterans or military members can contact. This important service is dedicated to serving our nation’s heroes that are having a mental health crisis or experiencing suicidal thoughts. Find the letters Rep. Kind sent to the House Appropriations Committee here and here.
02.26.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s legislation to fix a number of problems seen at the Tomah VA, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, was passed by the House Committee on Veterans Affairs. “I am pleased to see our legislation move forward and hope that it will quickly be brought to the floor for a vote by the entire House,” said Rep. Kind. “We must make sure no other veterans and their families have to go through what the Simcakoski family and others have had to. One of the best ways to do this is to give veteran patients and their families a real role in VA oversight and to provide health care professionals better training on the negative effects of prescription painkillers.” This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, improves patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is supported by Disabled Veterans of America, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Paralyzed Veterans of America.
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind attended the bill signing at the White House for his legislation, H.R. 1903, to close a loophole that allowed for the importation of goods produced from child, slave, or forced labor. “I was honored to be present today as President Obama signed this important piece of legislation into law. It is the responsibility of the United States to lead the way in setting labor standards on the products we accept, including prohibiting the importation of products based on the exploitation of child labor, forced labor, or slave labor. Not only is this legislation the right and moral thing to do it will also help our workers to compete in the global market place,” Rep. Kind stated. Rep. Kind introduced the legislation to amend the Tariff Act of 1930 for the past two years. The legislation closes an 85 year loophole that allowed the importation of goods produced using slave labor. This legislation was included in the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015.
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that President Obama plans to sign into law his legislation that would ban the import of products produced by child and slave laborers. “It is long past time that we took action to close this outdated loophole that allowed for products produced as a result of slave and child labor to be imported into our country. It is the responsibility of the United States to lead the way in setting labor standards on the products we accept. President Obama signing this legislation into law is a step in the right direction towards ending the exploitation of workers around the world,” Rep. Kind stated. The legislation closes the loophole in the Tariff Act of 1930 to prohibit the importation of goods made with labor classified as convict labor, forced labor, or indentured labor. It contains reporting requirements to ensure accountability.
02.23.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s office is happy to announce that after years of navigating government gridlock and red tape from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) the Klar family will be traveling to the DRC this week to bring their daughter Hadassa back to La Crosse. “Nothing makes me prouder than my office being able to help bring the Klar family and Hadassa together. I wish the Klar’s safe travels as they leave this week to go and bring their daughter home,” said Rep. Kind. “While the Klar’s have a happy ending to their story there are many families who are still waiting for the Democratic Republic of the Congo to grant their adopted children exit permits from the country. I will continue to work to ensure that all adopted children from the DRC are able to come home to their families.” "We are thrilled to be bringing our daughter home but our hearts ache for the families that are yet to be united,” said the Klar family. Although Hadassa’s adoption was approved in January of 2015, and her US passport and visa were issued, the Klars were forced to wait to be united because the DRC had indefinitely suspended issuing exit permits for internationally-adopted children. The DRC recently restarted the process of examining the cases of internationally-adopted children, and on Friday they released the first list of cases that had been approved. Hadassa was included on the initial list, but many other families are still waiting to hear about their children. Rep. Kind’s office worked with the State Department over several months to get Hadassa an exit permit. Additionally, Rep. Kind sent a letter to the Congolese Ambassador requesting the government lift their ban on issuing exit permits to children being adopted by US families.
02.22.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that next week representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. “Our office is always working to be accessible and helpful to residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope that people will take advantage of these open office hours to come share their thoughts and seek help to solve problems they may be having with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people who are having trouble dealing with the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other Federal agencies. District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Tuesday, March 1, 2016 9:00-10:00 a.m. Portage County Courthouse- Conference Room D 1516 Church St. St. Point, WI 54481 10:30-11:30 am Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 54021 1:00-2:00 pm Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 Wednesday, March 2, 2016 9:00-10:00 a.m. McMillan Memorial Library- Margaret McCourt Conference Room 490 East Grand Ave WI Rapids, WI 54494 11:00-12:00 pm Adams County Community Center-Room 103 569 N. Cedar St. Adams, WI 53910 Thursday, March 3, 2016 9:30-10:30 am Timber Lane Coffee 934 Wisconsin Avenue Boscobel, WI 53805 10:00-11:00 a.m. Hatch Public Library- Conference Meeting Room 111 West State St. Mauston, WI 53948 10:30-11:30 am Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 12:00-1:00 p.m. Tomah City Hall- City Council Chambers 819 Superior Ave. Tomah, WI 54660 1:00-2:00 pm Schreiner Memorial Library 113 West Elm Street Lancaster, WI 53813 1:00-2:00 pm Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI 54773 Friday, March 4, 2016 10:00 -11:00 am Richland Center Municipal Building 450 South Main Street Richland Center, WI 53581 10:00-11:00 am Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610 12:30-1:30 pm: Kickapoo Valley Reserve Visitor Center S3661 WI-131 La Farge, WI 54639
02.19.2016	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind applauded the announcement that the National Resource Conservation Service will invest $2.9 million to assist 30 conservation partners in restoring natural habitats in Wisconsin and Minnesota. This funding will benefit many at-risk species in the Driftless Area.“This is good news for Wisconsin and the entire Driftless region” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Investing in projects to restore natural habitats will benefit both our economy and our ecology for years to come. I was especially pleased to see that this funding will help conservation organizations, who have been working tirelessly for years, expand their work to protect the Driftless Area.”Rep. Kind has made conserving our natural heritage one of the hallmarks of his work in Congress. Last year he has welcomed Secretary Sally Jewell of the Department of the Interior to La Crosse to discuss the local impact of the Land and Water Conservation Fund and other conservation programs.
02.12.2016	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) delivered 162 Veterans’ stories collected by Mr. Bill Cain’s students at Tomah High School over 15 years to the Library of Congress. These tapes will now become a part of the national Veterans History Project Archive.“I was honored to deliver these important stories to the Library of Congress, where they will be preserved for future generations,” Rep. Kind said. “I hope everyone will join me in continuing to grow the project. I urge everyone to ask veterans they know to record their stories. This is the last ask of a grateful nation to our veterans.”Last year on Veterans Day Rep. Kind joined Tomah High School students to pack up the videos, and discuss the importance of the Veterans History Project. In 2000, Rep. Ron Kind authored, and Congress unanimously passed, legislation creating the VHP, which has since allowed veterans to record more than 100,000 stories and preserve them in the Library of Congress for future generations.
02.11.2016	La Crosse, WI– Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined with a bipartisan group of his colleagues to introduce the Fairness for Agricultural Machinery and Equipment (Fame) Act. The FAME Act makes the tax code fairer for farmers by shortening the depreciation schedule for farm equipment from seven years to five years, the same as construction equipment.“On average, farmers and ranchers finance farm equipment for five years; however, the value of their equipment depreciates over seven years. This legislation would fix that problem by making permanent a five-year depreciation schedule for agricultural equipment, which will help boost domestic demand and keep jobs here at home,” said Rep. Kind.Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan FAME Act along with Reps. Ralph Abraham, R-Louisiana; Rick Crawford, R-Arkansas; Jeff Denham, R-California; Sanford Bishop, D-Georgia; Frank Lucas, R-Oklahoma; Brad Ashford, D-Nebraska; Mike Pompeo, R-Kansas; and Rod Blum, R-Iowa.
02.10.2016	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) co-sponsored the JOBS Act, which helps low-income students and people who have lost their jobs enter job training programs. This legislation allows Pell grants to be used for shorter-term job training programs at institutes of higher education.“With more jobs requiring hands-on experience that can only be attained through job training programs, it is important we find ways to make those programs affordable and accessible. This legislation will help people use federal grants to pay for short term job training programs that will give them the knowledge and skills to succeed in the 21st Century,” said Rep. Kind."This legislation helps get people into a strong career path in a shorter amount of time, without losing quality. It is good for our students, the businesses we serve, and the local communities in our district that rely on them both,” said Lee Rasch, President of Western Technical College.Last week Rep. Kind unveiled his comprehensive strategy to help make college more affordable, which consists of five key principles:The Government Shouldn’t Profit From Student LoansAllow People to Refinance Student Loans – Like MortgagesExtend and Expand Tax Incentives to Increase College Affordability for Students and FamiliesMake Sure Students Have Access to Affordable Job Training ProgramsPermanently Extend the Perkins Loan Program To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here.
02.03.2016	Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) unveiled his 2016 College Affordability Action Plan (CAAP), a comprehensive plan to make college more affordable for Wisconsin students and families. “As a father of a freshman at UW-River Falls and another son who is a high school senior, I have seen first-hand how important higher education is in Wisconsin,” Rep. Kind stated. “In order to make sure Wisconsin students can compete in the global economy I have put together a plan to reduce student debt burdens and ensure every student has access to an affordable, quality education.” “An affordable university education helps foster creativity and critical thinking, which are the necessities of life and work in the 21st century. College affordability ensures everyone has the chance to improve themselves and make a difference in their communities,” said Jake Wrasse, Student Body President at UW-Eau Claire. Rep. Kind’s comprehensive strategy to help make college more affordable consists of five key principles: The Government Shouldn’t Profit From Student Loans Allow People to Refinance Student Loans – Like Mortgages Extend and Expand Tax Incentives to Increase College Affordability for Students and Families Make Sure Students Have Access to Affordable Job Training Programs Permanently Extend the Perkins Loan Program To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here. Over the last year Rep. Kind helped pass a number of proposals to make a college education more affordable, including expanding 529 college savings plans for 257,000 Wisconsinites, simplifying and improving the process for applying for federal student loans, extending the Federal Perkins Loan Program, and ensuring that 24,000 families in Wisconsin’s 3rd Congressional District can continue to take advantage of a $2,500 tax credit to pay for school. Rep. Kind will continue to work to pass additional college affordability proposals in the Higher Education Act, which will come up later this year.
01.28.2016	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) introduced legislation to increase rail safety and better protect our communities from the negative consequences of train derailments. This legislation builds on lessons learned from the derailment in Alma and Galena IL., by providing foam trailers and other emergency response equipment in strategic places along heavily trafficked rail lines. “As I travel to communities around western and central Wisconsin a concern I continually hear is the negative impact increased rail traffic is having, and the danger derailments pose to communities,” said Rep. Kind. “Today, I introduced legislation to place emergency response equipment, at no cost to taxpayers, in strategic places along heavily traveled rail lines, like the one along the Mississippi River. By making life saving equipment more accessible we provide our communities with the certainty that their homes and businesses will be safe if a derailment happens.” “The recent derailments in Alma and Brownsville show how we are vulnerable to catastrophic accidents, most in hard-to-reach locales. Preventative measures to avoid the many tragic risks of derailments must continue to be our primary focus, but we also need wise legislation such as this to be safe. It’s not fair to taxpayers to shoulder the financial costs for the increased dangers put on the line to communities,” said Citizens Acting for Rail Safety-La Crosse. The Rail Safety Act directs the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to coordinate with the Department of Transportation to provide emergency response equipment in strategic places along rail routes over which a high volume of high-hazard trains operate, which should lower the response time of firefighters. This legislation authorizes FEMA to use fees collected from railroad carriers to purchase the equipment.
01.27.2016	President Obama announced his plan to make it easier for Americans to save for retirement in the 21st century. As part of his plan the President included Rep. Kind’s proposal to make it easier for employers to create pooled 401(k) plans to ensure stronger retirement options for workers. “A comfortable retirement is something everyone seeks to achieve – whether they work for a big business or a small business, and I am pleased to see that today the President has made it easier for small businesses to help their employees plan for retirement,” Rep. Kind stated. “With this new measure, which I have pushed in the House for several years, the President is making good on his commitment in the State of the Union to help all Americans save for the future.” Earlier this year Rep. Ron Kind (D-Wisc.) and Dave Reichert (R-Wash.) introduced the Small Businesses Add Value for Employees (SAVE) Act of 2014, which would remove the “common bond” requirement, enabling employers to take advantage of multiple employer plans (MEPs) allowing small businesses to form MEPs together regardless of industry. Rep. Kind has been active on this issue since 2008.
01.12.2016	Tonight, President Obama delivered his last State of the Union Address to the United States Congress. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the address:“As President Obama said tonight, America is the greatest country and our future is promising. However, by definition divided government requires cooperation. I hope we can find common ground this year to continue to grow our economy with good paying jobs and expand economic opportunities for all Wisconsinites.“One issue that President Obama brought up that is affecting a number of Wisconsin families is the growing heroin and opioid epidemic. As we saw first-hand at the Tomah VA, over-prescription and misuse of opioids has led to far too many loved ones losing their lives. We must continue to work together to ensure our veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve.“Our country’s future looks bright and together we can continue to bring Wisconsin common sense values to Washington. By investing in job training programs, helping families afford higher education, and ensuring our national security we can make sure that the country we leave to our children and grandchildren is full of opportunity.”-30-
01.11.2016	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that he will bring Kaylee Otterbacher, President of University of Wisconsin La Crosse’s Student Association to the State of the Union. Kaylee will be in DC with a group of student leaders from across Wisconsin urging Congress to increase college affordability.“I look forward to having Kaylee join me for the State of the Union address. Kaylee is an outstanding student leader, who is dedicated to making sure a college education is affordable for all her fellow students,” said Rep. Kind. “In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District we are home to fourteen colleges and universities and more than 71,000 undergraduate students, which makes access to an affordable college education a top priority.”"I'm so honored to have been so graciously given this opportunity to attend President Obama's last State of the Union. It's so humbling to be able to attend this event with such a fantastic advocate of higher education and a strong ally for students across the nation and the University of Wisconsin System,” said Kaylee Otterbacher. “I'm so thankful to Congressman Kind's invite to this historic event and his continued dedication to Wisconsin's 3rd District."In the coming weeks Rep. Kind will introduce an updated version of his College Affordability Action Plan, which will help Wisconsin students and families afford a high-quality education.
12.18.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) voted in favor of an end of year budget bill that includes a number of Wisconsin priorities that he worked over the last months to have included.“With today’s vote we avoided another disastrous government shutdown and gave families and businesses across Wisconsin more certainty. With this certainty western and central Wisconsin businesses will continue to grow and produce good-paying jobs in our communities,” Rep. Kind stated.“Additionally, I am pleased that Congress could come together in a bipartisan manner and ease the negative impact of the ongoing indiscriminate cuts to critical areas like education, job training, and Medicare. Today’s budget also works to fix a number of issues I have been pushing for, including reauthorizing the Land and Water Conservation Fund, increasing transparency in the VA, and providing additional funding for rail safety.”Specific provisions Rep. Kind has pushed for that were included in the 2016 Budget:A $300,000 increase for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, which would help improve rail safety. Find a copy of the letter Rep. Kind sent here. A number of provisions from Rep. Kind’s Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, including requiring the VA Inspector General to provide all work products to the Congress, share work products with any individual or entity that requested it, and post final reports on the IG website no later than 3 days after it is submitted in final form.Whistleblower protection to assure that VA medical staff has the same protections as other VA employees. 3 year reauthorization of Land and Water Conservation Fund Grant Program. In August Rep. Kind welcomed Secretary Sally Jewell of the Department of the Interior to La Crosse to tour the Mississippi River Basin and discuss the success and local impact of the Land and Water
12.17.2015	Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s and U.S. Rep. Cheri Bustos’ request for increased funding for rail safety was included in the year end spending bill. The bill is expected to come to the House floor for a vote on Friday.“I am pleased to see that Congress has taken Rep. Bustos’ and my recommendation to increase funding for rail safety measures. During a derailment or spill a quick response time and access to the proper tools saves lives and property,” Congressman Kind stated. “While this increase in funding is a step in the right direction I would have liked to have seen additional funding. Going forward I will continue to work on additional measures to ensure our first responders have the tools they need in emergencies.”"I fought to increase funding for emergency response equipment because we have an obligation to protect families in communities along rail lines," said Congresswoman Cheri Bustos. "Last March in Galena, we saw how important it is for first responders to have immediate access to the tools they need to prevent an accident from becoming a full scale disaster. While I would have preferred to have seen additional funding for emergency response equipment, this is an encouraging step in the right direction and I will continue to fight for more resources for our communities."The 2016 budget contains funding for the various transportation safety programs and agencies within DOT. This includes a $300,000 increase for the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. Find a copy of the letter here.
12.17.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan, 2 year extension of the Perkins Loan Program. Rep. Kind has been pushing his colleagues to extend the program since its expiration in September of this year.“In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District we are home to fourteen colleges, technical colleges, and private universities and more than 71,000 undergraduate students, which makes affordable higher education a top priority. Today, I was pleased to join my colleagues in unanimously passing a 2-year extension to the Perkins Loan Program. Wisconsin students and families deserve to have access to affordable quality education, and I have been pushing my colleagues in Congress to extend this vital program,” Rep. Kind said. Recently Rep. Kind has discussed the need to reauthorize the program with UW-Madison Chancellor Rebecca Blank and during a tour of Chippewa Valley Technical College. Additionally, in September he voted in favor of the Higher Education Extension Act of 2015, which would have extended the program without delay.
12.16.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, a number of provisions from U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 were included in the 2016 funding bill. The bill is expected to come to the House floor for a vote on Friday.“After months of pushing my colleagues to increase transparency in the VA Inspector General’s office I was pleased to see a number of the provisions from my Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 included in the 2016 spending bill,” said Rep. Kind. “By working together to ensure greater transparency in the VA system, we can make sure the tragic events at Tomah are never repeated.”Earlier this year Rep. Kind brought together the entire Wisconsin delegation to sponsor his bill, the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015. Additionally, in July he sent a letter to House Leadership requesting they move forward on the legislation.The 2016 Omnibus includes an expansion of whistleblower protection to assure that VA medical staff has the same protections as other VA employees. In addition, the OIG is required to provide all work products to the Congress in a consistent and timely manner to support oversight, share work products with any individual or entity that requested it, and post final reports on the IG website no later than 3 days after it is submitted in final form.
12.14.2015	Eau Claire, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind toured Chippewa Valley Technical College’s new Energy Education Center. The innovative new site represents an approximate $10 million investment in training workers for the energy sector jobs of the future.“In order to continue to grow our economy we need to be investing in our greatest resource – our workers – so that we can remain the most innovative and creative nation in the world. Having facilities like the state of the art Energy Education Center makes sure that our workers are prepared to compete for new jobs in the energy sector,” Rep. Kind said.“Right here in the Chippewa Valley we have seen how technological advancements in wind, solar and geothermal energy systems have changed the landscape in the energy sector of our economy,” CVTC President Bruce Barker said. “The Energy Education Center provides the facilities where our students and their future employers can keep up with the changes and prepare for the next generation of energy technologyRep. Kind recently co-sponsored the Grants for Renewable Energy Education for the Nation (GREEN) Act, which would award grants to educational institutions, like Chippewa Valley Technical College, to develop programs of study for careers in clean and renewable energy.
12.08.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind co-sponsored legislation to help prepare Wisconsin workers for jobs in the renewable and energy efficiency industries.“I have toured a number of businesses in western and central Wisconsin that are on the cutting edge of renewable energy production. As the renewable energy sector continues to grow in Wisconsin, businesses will create more good paying high-skilled jobs. We need to make sure Wisconsin workers have the training they need to compete for these jobs, which is why I co-sponsored legislation to train our workers for jobs in renewable and energy efficiency industries,” Rep. Kind stated.The Renewable Energy Act was introduced by Representative Raul Ruiz (D-CA). The bill seeks to strengthen our energy independence and create jobs by setting up a competitive grant program to be run by the Department of Labor (DOL) which will provide the education and on the job training necessary to put unemployed workers to work in the renewable and energy efficiency industries.
12.07.2015	La Crosse, WI- Today, U.S. Reps Ron Kind, Gwen Moore, and Mark Pocan sent a letter to leadership urging them to delay personnel cuts to the National Guard until the completion of a study on the future size and structure of the Army.“At a time when the United States faces a number of threats to our homeland we must have a long-term strategic plan for the future of our Army National Guard, which is why I am calling on leadership to delay these cuts until we complete a study on the future size and structure of the Army,” Rep. Kind said.The 2016 National Defense Authorization Act calls for reducing overall Army National Guard strength from 350,000 troops to 342,000 troops. This letter requests Congress delay ant personnel cuts until the National Commission on the Future of the Army completes their study on the appropriate size and role of the Army, including the National Guard. They are expected to provide their expert recommendations in February 2016.Find a copy of the letter here.
12.04.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind presented La Crosse resident Ray Anderson, a Korean War veteran, with a Purple Heart he had earned but never received. Rep. Kind’s office was able to work with Mr. Anderson and his family to get him the recognition he had earned.“Thank you to Ray Anderson for his bravery and dedication to our country. Today it was my honor to a present Ray with a Purple Heart he earned during the Korean War, but due to a clerical error had been unable to receive, Rep. Kind said, “One of my office’s most important jobs is to help veterans and their families cut through bureaucracy to secure the benefits they have earned and deserve.”Ray Anderson is a veteran of the Korean War. He served as Private First Class attached to Company A, 35th Infantry Regiment, 25th Infantry Division of the US Army from September 16, 1949 to October 1, 1952. Mr. Anderson previously received the following awards and decorations: United Nations Service Medal, Korean Service Medal with 5 Bronze Campaign Stars, Bronze Star Medal and Combat Infantryman Badge. He was never awarded the Purple Heart until now because it was omitted from his record. Rep. Kind’s office helped rectify that.
12.03.2015	La Crosse, WI - Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of bipartisan legislation to fund our nation’s transportation system, increase rail safety, and re-authorize the Export-Import Bank. Below is his statement:“Today’s long-term transportation legislation shows that with bipartisan compromise we can take commonsense steps to address problems that have seemed intractable for years. This legislation gives local and state officials the certainty they need to move forward on transportation and infrastructure projects that are vital to creating jobs in western and central Wisconsin.“One of the most pressing issues in western and central Wisconsin is rail safety, which is why I am pleased they included a provision from my Crude-by-Rail Safety Act to improve disclosure to our local communities of what exactly is being transported on the trains traveling through.”“Additionally, the renewal of the Export-Import bank will help open global markets for businesses across western and central Wisconsin to sell their products abroad. Access to these new markets will help businesses keep facilities in Wisconsin, hire Wisconsin workers, and continue to grow and innovate.”
12.03.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of bipartisan legislation to revise the long-outdated policies of No Child Left Behind and give Wisconsin teachers and students the tools they need to succeed.“After years of waiting for a replacement for No Child Left Behind, I am pleased that we were able to craft a bipartisan piece of legislation that gives our teachers the flexibility to adequately address each student’s needs, rather than tying their hands with a one-size-fits-all approach,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “It is more important than ever that we ensure each student has the education and skills they need to compete in an increasingly global, 21st century economy; and these commonsense reforms take a significant step toward achieving that.”The passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act marks the most significant changes to our education system in the last 15 years. The legislation replaces the national school accountability system with a system that gives states more flexibility to self-assess, reduces the overall amount of testing, and puts an end to testing being the primary factor used when assessing school efficiency.
12.02.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and U.S. Rep. Cheri Bustos urged leaders to increase funding for foam trailers and other emergency response equipment in the upcoming FY16 Omnibus spending bill. During the recent train derailment in Alma local emergency personnel requested a foam trailer be sent to the scene as a precautionary measure in case of a fire, but the nearest trailer was located nearly sixty miles away in La Crosse, WI. In March, a train derailed near Galena Illinois leaking 110,000 gallons of crude oil, emergency responders said that with more foam available, they could have been significantly more effective in addressing the problem.“As we saw with the recent derailment in Alma many of our rural communities and responders don’t have timely access to vital equipment needed to handle a catastrophic incident. That is unacceptable,” Rep. Kind said. “During a derailment or spill a quick response time and access to the proper tools saves lives and property, which is why I am urging leaders to take immediate action to increase funding and give all our local communities tools they need to handle a derailment.”“When a train derailed near Galena and leaked thousands of gallons of crude oil, having more foam readily available would have helped our first responders do their jobs more effectively,” said Rep. Cheri Bustos. “It's critically important for us to do more to protect communities along rail lines. That's why I'm working to make common sense investments to provide our first responders with the tools they need to protect our communities and our environment.”
11.19.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind voted in favor of the American SAFE Act of 2015, which would enhance and improve background checks and screening for Syria refugees. Below is his statement:“In the wake of the recent attacks by ISIS our top priority must be doing everything we can to ensure the safety of the American people, both here and abroad. Currently, it takes between 18 and 24 months for each individual, over 75% of whom are women and children, to enter the US. While the current process for Syrian refugees to enter the country is extensive, there are additional common sense actions we can take to make it more secure.“One step to enhance security is to increase background checks for Syrian refugees entering the United States. This legislation requires multiple Federal intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies to work together to verify that those entering the US don’t pose a danger to the country.“The legislation today strikes a good balance between protecting our national security while not implementing draconian policies that go against the values on which our country was founded. There are no provisions in the legislation that prohibit refugees from entering the US, it does not defund the refugee program or jeopardize our government funding, and it does not discriminate based on religious affiliation.”
11.18.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined U.S. Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY) to introduce the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which aims to fix a number of problems seen at the Tomah VA, including looking into improved pain management practices. This legislation is named in honor of Jason Simcakoski, a Wisconsin veteran who tragically lost his life last year.“We must make sure no other veterans and their families have to go through what the Simcakoski family and others have had to. One of the best ways to do this is to give veteran patients and their families a real role in VA oversight and to provide health care professionals better training on the negative effects of prescription painkillers. This legislation uses some of the lessons learned from problems at Tomah to help the VA provide better care for veterans nationwide,” Rep. Kind stated.“The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is an important piece of history. Helping our veterans get the best care possible is the ultimate goal. The guidelines in the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act will help the VA give our veterans and service men and women the best health care they deserve. Our family doesn’t want to see what happened to our son Jason happen to another veteran or service person,” said Jason’s father Marvin Simcakoski.This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthens provider education and training, improves patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is similar to the Jason Simcakoski Memorial Opioid Safety Act in the Senate.The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is supported by Disabled Veterans of America, American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Paralyzed Veterans of America.
11.17.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind participated in and asked questions at a Veterans’ Affairs committee hearing on bipartisan legislation he is working on to fix the problems seen at the Tomah VA Medical Center. He also submitted statements from Jason Simcakoski’s family to the record during the“I am honored to work with Jason’s family to tell his story and make sure no other family has to go through what they have. Today’s hearing was a positive step forward in building support for my bipartisan legislation, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which works to give our veterans the care they have earned and deserve,” Rep. Kind stated.Rep. Kind is working with Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) on Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act that would fix some of the problems seen at the Tomah VA and look into improved pain management practices. The legislation is expected to be introduced soon, and would be similar to theSenate’s Jason Simcakoski Memorial Opioid Safety Act.Watch video of Rep. Kind’s testimony here.
11.12.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, Taxpayers for Common Sense, a non-partisan group focused on stopping government waste, wrote an op-ed in U.S. News and World Report about the positive impact of the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act.Rep. Kind and Rep. Sensenbrenner introduced the AFFIRM Act last week. The legislation makes bold reforms to crop insurance premium subsidy payments, saves taxpayer dollars and promotes transparency.The full text of the op-ed can be read below:U.S. News and World Report - Planting the Seeds of Real Farm ReformBy: Ryan AlexanderI have written on these pages and elsewhere about the many ways that the 2014 farm bill has already failed taxpayers. Apologists for big spending on agriculture claimed passing the nearly $1 trillion bill would generate $16.6 billion in savings over 10 years, but this fantasy is crashing down less than two years after the bill was signed into law. The reality is the 2014 farm bill increased spending much more than promised. Spending in fiscal year 2014 alone was $5.2 billion more than projected by the farm bill because of payments made to farmers. And the Department of Agriculture has testified that its "cost cutting" shallow loss programs are going to be $3 billion over-budget in just their first year of payments. It's pretty clear those promises of savings are never going to bear fruit.That's why Reps. Ron Kind, D-Wis., and Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., last week introduced the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures Act. Longtime observers of the Washington policy landscape, these congressmen know good agriculture policy requires years of cultivation. Before we can plant an agriculture policy that better serves farmers, consumers and taxpayers, we have to begin clearing out special interest brambles and brush that grow up long before most people start paying attention to the once-every-six-years farm bill.And these kernels of good reform must be tended to withstand ferocious attacks from moneyed special interests that benefit from the dysfunctional status quo.The bill is the latest application of common sense reform. It would help rein in the spiraling cost of the nearly $9 billion a year in federally subsidized crop insurance program, which has quickly become the most expensive taxpayer subsidy for agriculture. It brings crop insurance in line with every other federal subsidy available for agricultural businesses. It caps at $40,000 the amount of subsidy an individual can get to buy their insurance, as opposed to the 26 operations that each received more than $1 million in one year. By excluding any company with an adjusted (after your accountant deducts every last dime spent as a business cost) gross income greater than a quarter million dollars, it targets subsidies to smaller, beginning and family farms. It caps at $900 million the subsidy private crop insurance companies receive for selling policies and filing claims (while taxpayers bear most of the risk of losses). It eliminates an egregious provision that automatically adjusts payouts if prices at harvest are higher than anticipated at planting. And it would require USDA to release to taxpayers the names of every individual, including members of Congress, who receives subsidies, just like USDA does for every other agricultural income support program.It's clear the Agriculture Committees will do everything it can to cut down any attempt to harvest those promised savings. Section 201 of the budget deal passed last month required the Department of Agriculture to renegotiate the Standard Reinsurance Agreement – a contractual agreement between taxpayers and those paper-pushing crop insurance companies – in order to reduce subsidies to companies by $3.5 billion. Even before the ink had dried, Agriculture Committee leaders crowed about how they'd been promised these cuts would be undone in the upcoming omnibus spending deal, shifting those $3.5 billion in cuts to some other part of the budget or even just putting them on the nation's credit card. The bill once again mandates this deal be renegotiated to produce savings.When offered as an amendment during the 2014 farm bill debate, Kind and Sensenbrenner's bill fell just a few votes shy of passing. In that debate the seed was planted. In just two years, it's become clear the 2014 farm bill gives taxpayers nothing but a bitter harvest. The Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures Act will help change that.Any farmer worth their salt will tell you the steps to getting a good yield come long before the harvest. A good farmer knows the limits and potential of his land. He or she will spend years building fertility into the soil. And after the seeds are in the ground, the plants must be tended, flexibly adjusting to changing circumstances as needed. I am so happy to see that some in Congress know the same diligence is required when what you're looking to reap is savings for taxpayers.
11.12.2015	La Crosse, WI– Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind spoke with Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald about ways to fix problems at the Tomah VA medical facility and the progress being made to ensure we keep our promises to our veterans.“Secretary McDonald and I had an informative discussion about a number of actions that can be taken to make sure our veterans receive the care they earned and deserve. I look forward to continuing to work with officials at the VA, the Tomah community, and veterans to ensure Wisconsin veterans have access to quality care and increased transparency in the VA,” Rep. Kind stated.Rep. Kind brought together the entire Wisconsin delegation to sponsor his bill, the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, which will ensure greater transparency and oversight into the office of inspector general. To improve the quality of care he proposed oversight boards to help find alternative and complementary treatments to pain management. Additionally, he introduced the Veterans Access to Care Act, which would fix recruitment problems the VA is having in Tomah, Wausau, Wisconsin Rapids, and other parts of the state.
11.12.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, Taxpayers for Common Sense, a non-partisan group focused on stopping government waste, wrote an op-ed in U.S. News and World Report about the positive impact of the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act.Rep. Kind and Rep. Sensenbrenner introduced the AFFIRM Act last week. The legislation makes bold reforms to crop insurance premium subsidy payments, saves taxpayer dollars and promotes transparency.The full text of the op-ed can be read below:U.S. News and World Report - Planting the Seeds of Real Farm ReformBy: Ryan AlexanderI have written on these pages and elsewhere about the many ways that the 2014 farm bill has already failed taxpayers. Apologists for big spending on agriculture claimed passing the nearly $1 trillion bill would generate $16.6 billion in savings over 10 years, but this fantasy is crashing down less than two years after the bill was signed into law. The reality is the 2014 farm bill increased spending much more than promised. Spending in fiscal year 2014 alone was $5.2 billion more than projected by the farm bill because of payments made to farmers. And the Department of Agriculture has testified that its "cost cutting" shallow loss programs are going to be $3 billion over-budget in just their first year of payments. It's pretty clear those promises of savings are never going to bear fruit.That's why Reps. Ron Kind, D-Wis., and Jim Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., last week introduced the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures Act. Longtime observers of the Washington policy landscape, these congressmen know good agriculture policy requires years of cultivation. Before we can plant an agriculture policy that better serves farmers, consumers and taxpayers, we have to begin clearing out special interest brambles and brush that grow up long before most people start paying attention to the once-every-six-years farm bill.And these kernels of good reform must be tended to withstand ferocious attacks from moneyed special interests that benefit from the dysfunctional status quo.The bill is the latest application of common sense reform. It would help rein in the spiraling cost of the nearly $9 billion a year in federally subsidized crop insurance program, which has quickly become the most expensive taxpayer subsidy for agriculture. It brings crop insurance in line with every other federal subsidy available for agricultural businesses. It caps at $40,000 the amount of subsidy an individual can get to buy their insurance, as opposed to the 26 operations that each received more than $1 million in one year. By excluding any company with an adjusted (after your accountant deducts every last dime spent as a business cost) gross income greater than a quarter million dollars, it targets subsidies to smaller, beginning and family farms. It caps at $900 million the subsidy private crop insurance companies receive for selling policies and filing claims (while taxpayers bear most of the risk of losses). It eliminates an egregious provision that automatically adjusts payouts if prices at harvest are higher than anticipated at planting. And it would require USDA to release to taxpayers the names of every individual, including members of Congress, who receives subsidies, just like USDA does for every other agricultural income support program.It's clear the Agriculture Committees will do everything it can to cut down any attempt to harvest those promised savings. Section 201 of the budget deal passed last month required the Department of Agriculture to renegotiate the Standard Reinsurance Agreement – a contractual agreement between taxpayers and those paper-pushing crop insurance companies – in order to reduce subsidies to companies by $3.5 billion. Even before the ink had dried, Agriculture Committee leaders crowed about how they'd been promised these cuts would be undone in the upcoming omnibus spending deal, shifting those $3.5 billion in cuts to some other part of the budget or even just putting them on the nation's credit card. The bill once again mandates this deal be renegotiated to produce savings.When offered as an amendment during the 2014 farm bill debate, Kind and Sensenbrenner's bill fell just a few votes shy of passing. In that debate the seed was planted. In just two years, it's become clear the 2014 farm bill gives taxpayers nothing but a bitter harvest. The Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures Act will help change that.Any farmer worth their salt will tell you the steps to getting a good yield come long before the harvest. A good farmer knows the limits and potential of his land. He or she will spend years building fertility into the soil. And after the seeds are in the ground, the plants must be tended, flexibly adjusting to changing circumstances as needed. I am so happy to see that some in Congress know the same diligence is required when what you're looking to reap is savings for taxpayers.
11.09.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind wrote a letter to House leadership urging them to immediately bring his rail safety legislation to the House floor for a vote. This comes after two separate train derailments in Wisconsin over the weekend.“The derailments this weekend in Alma and Watertown showed once again the negative impact increased rail traffic is having on our communities and environment. Fortunately, no injuries were reported at either derailment, but dozens of people were forced to temporarily evacuate their homes and nearly 20,000 gallons of ethanol spilled into the Mississippi River,” Rep. Kind stated. “The increase in rail traffic shows no signs of stopping, which is why we must take immediate action to prevent future derailments. I am calling on House leadership to hold a vote on my legislation which will provide for stronger rail safety standards and will increase oversight.”The Crude-by-Rail Safety Act prohibits the use of unsafe DOT-111 tank cars, such as the ones involved in the Alma derailment.
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Wisconsin Congressmen Ron Kind (D-La Crosse) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Menomonee Falls) introduced the bipartisan Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act. The AFFIRM Act makes bold reforms to crop insurance premium subsidy payments, saves taxpayer dollars and promotes transparency.Congressman Sensenbrenner:“The AFFIRM Act makes sensible changes to our nation’s crop insurance program to reduce unnecessary subsidies directed towards our country’s largest and most profitable farms and agribusinesses. These reforms will promote the longevity of agriculture risk-sharing programs and make sure the farm safety-net remains readily available, especially for those who need it most. With our national debt approaching $19 trillion, Congress must continue to work in a bipartisan fashion to reduce excessive spending and ensure future generations inherit a prosperous America. Legislation that will save taxpayers billions, such as the AFFIRM Act, is a step in the right direction.”Congressman Kind: “The current crop insurance system is extremely wasteful and in need of major reform. The AFFIRM Act will save taxpayers $24.4 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “Taxpayers deserve to know where their tax dollars are going, and the AFFIRM Act will make that possible.These important reforms not only strike a better deal for taxpayers but will have no out of pocket expense to farmers.”The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the AFFIRM Act will save approximately $24.4 billion over the next decade, and the legislation enjoys bipartisan support from groups such as The Environmental Working Group, National Taxpayer’s Union, Taxpayers for Common Sense, R-Street Institute, Citizens Against Government Waste, and Freedom Works. This legislation comes a week after Congress passed a budget agreement, which made much needed changes to the wasteful crop insurance program. The agreement lowered the profit margin to large insurance companies to 8.9 percent from 14 percent, generating $3 billion in savings for taxpayers
11.04.2015	USDA Announces $5.3 Million Investment for Kickapoo River Rep. Kind has Long Fought to Improve Water Quality in the Mississippi River BasinLa Crosse, WI– This week the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resource Conservation Service announced that over the next four years they will invest $5.3 million in projects on the Kickapoo River.“This is good news for Wisconsin and the entire region” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Investing in water quality, agriculture and supporting conservation is critically important to our way of life. These projects will benefit our economy and our ecology for years to come.”One of the watersheds to receive funding is the Kickapoo River, which travels between Ontario and La Farge. Partners working with this project include the Crawford and Vernon County Land Conversation Departments among others.
11.04.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act Bipartisan Bill Ensures Wisconsin Veterans Receive the Care They Earned and Deserve La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined Rep. Gus Bilirakis (R-FL) to introduce the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, which aims to fix a number of problems seen at the Tomah VA, including looking into improved pain management practices. This legislation is named in honor of Jason Simcakoski, a Wisconsin veteran who tragically lost his life last year.“We must make sure no other veterans and their families have to go through what the Simcakoski family and others have had to. One of the best ways to do this is to give veteran patients and their families a real role in VA oversight and to provide health care professionals better training on the negative effects of prescription painkillers. This legislation takes some of the lessons learned from the problems at Tomah and helps the VA provide better care for veterans nationwide,” Rep Kind stated.This bipartisan legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to update pain management guidelines, strengthen provider education and training, improve patient advocacy, and authorizes a new commission to examine alternative treatments, among other provisions. The Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act is the House companion to the Jason Simcakoski Memorial Opioid Safety Act in the Senate.
11.02.2015	ICYMI CMS Creates Benefit for Advance Care PlanningRep. Kind has long advocated for Patient Centered Health CareLa Crosse, WI– Last Friday the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services finalized their new rule for the physician fee schedule update. The proposed rule includes reimbursement for advance care planning, which Rep. Kind has been working on for several years. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement on the inclusion of reimbursements for advanced care planning:“I am pleased and encouraged to see CMS take the step of allowing doctors to be reimbursed for having advanced care planning conversations with their patients. Western and central Wisconsin health centers, including Gunderson Health and the Mayo Clinic, have been pioneering programs that empower patients to have vital conversations about end of life care with their physicians. We need to be creating a health care system that is patient centered and rewards the value of care over the quantity of procedures,” Rep Kind stated. “Reimbursing for these conversations is a step in the right direction.”Rep. Kind and Rep. Blumenauer introduced the Personalize Your Care Act in 2013, which would have reimbursed doctors for advanced care planning conversations.
10.30.2015	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement of Firing of Former Tomah Chief of Staff David HoulihanLa Crosse, WI– Today, The Department of Veterans Affairs informed U.S. Rep. Ron Kind that Former Tomah Chief of Staff David Houlihan was officially fired from the VA. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement:“After extensive and fair investigation the VA has formally removed Dr. Houlihan from their employment. This is an important step in moving forward at the Tomah VA and ensuring our veterans receive the care they earned and deserve.”
10.29.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that he is holding a hunting, fishing, and outdoor photo contest for residents of Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. “In an effort to showcase western and central Wisconsin during fall hunting season I am asking people to submit their best hunting, fishing, or outdoor photo. Like most Wisconsinites this time of year is an exciting time for my family and me to bond and take advantage of the beautiful Wisconsin outdoors. This year I hope you will send me your best photos, so we can share in this great Wisconsin tradition.”Guidelines:· Photos should be submitted to wi3photos@mail.house.gov· Include in the email the county where the picture was taken· Deadline is December 1st· The winner will be determined by the photo that receives the most page likes on Rep. Ron Kind’s Facebook page· The winning photo will be featured on Rep. Kind’s website and Facebook page. Additionally, a copy will be displayed in the D.C. office
10.29.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, The Department of Veterans Affairs informed U.S. Rep. Ron Kind that Former Tomah Chief of Staff David Houlihan was officially fired from the VA. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement:“After extensive and fair investigation the VA has formally removed Dr. Houlihan from their employment. This is an important step in moving forward at the Tomah VA and ensuring our veterans receive the care they earned and deserve.”
10.28.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Votes for Bipartisan Budget AgreementReforms Crop Insurance Program to Save Taxpayers $3 BillionLa Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind joined a bipartisan coalition to pass a two-year budget agreement, which eases the burden of sequestration cuts, ensures America will continue to pay our bills on time, and makes much needed reforms to the crop insurance program.“The people of western and central Wisconsin expect the government to play by the same rules they do, which means ensuring we pay bills on time and having a long-term budget. This two-year budget agreement will bring a measure of certainty to help the economy grow and help ease the negative impact of ongoing indiscriminate cuts to critical areas like education, job training, and Medicare,” Rep. Kind stated. “Additionally, I am pleased this agreement reflects my idea on farm bill reform by making much needed changes to the wasteful crop insurance program. This legislation will lower the profit margin to large insurance companies to 8.9 percent from 14 percent, generating $3 billion in savings for taxpayers. These important reforms not only strike a better deal for taxpayers but will have no out of pocket expense to farmers.”Rep. Kind has been a leading advocate for protecting American taxpayers by reforming wasteful taxpayer subsidy programs to big Agribusiness and instead focusing on the needs of family farmers.
10.27.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Joins Bipartisan Coalition to Renew the Export-Import Bank Renewal of the Bank Helps Wisconsin Businesses Keep Jobs Here at HomeLa Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kindvoted to renew the Export-Import Bank, which provides a variety of financing mechanisms to help foreign buyers purchase U.S. goods and services. In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District the bank has helped 19 companies increase exports and supports 480 jobs. The renewal comes 5 months after the bank’s charter expired, and businesses across the country had begun to see the negative impacts from the expiration.“Today’s bipartisan vote to renew the Export-Import bank will help businesses across western and central Wisconsin grow and compete in the global marketplace. Almost every developed country has an Ex-Im bank to help their businesses and not having one put our economy at a severe disadvantage,” Rep. Kind stated. “The vote today was not only important for renewing the Export-Import Bank, but also serves as an example of what happens when we come together to put the country ahead of partisanship.”An independent federal agency, the Ex-Im Bank creates and maintains U.S. jobs by filling gaps in private export financing at no cost to American taxpayers. The program is funded by fees on those who use the program not taxpayers and is so successful those fees actually exceed costs and help to reduce our deficit.Rep. Kind has long been a supporter of renewing the Export-Import Bank. Last year he hosted Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) Chairman Fred Hochberg at a Global Access Forum for small businesses in Eau Claire.
10.26.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that seven small businesses in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District received grants from United States Department of Agriculture to make energy efficiency improvements and upgrade to renewable energy systems.“For businesses in Wisconsin one of the most expensive costs they have face are energy costs. These USDA energy efficiency grants will help a number of central and western Wisconsin businesses lower their energy costs and save money, that they can use to reinvest in growing their business and the local economy,” Rep. Kind stated.The seven local businesses to receive grants are:· Central Waters Brewing Company (Amherst, WI)· Dan Val Farms (Independence, WI)· Digman Grain Farms (Platteville, WI)· Eau Claire Energy Cooperative (Fall Creek, WI)· Helbach Farms (Amherst, WI)· Reser Morton (Readstown, WI)· Runde Chevrolet (Hazel Green, WI)
10.22.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that The Scenic Rivers Energy Co-op, which serves Grant, Crawford, and parts of Richland and Vernon counties, will receive $13 million in United States Department of Agriculture rural electric infrastructure project loans to improve 92 miles of electric lines.“With this rural electric infrastructure grant the Scenic Rivers Energy Co-op will be able to better provide electricity to over 11,000 Wisconsinites in Southwestern Wisconsin,” Rep. Kind stated. “It is vital that we continue to find ways to ensure rural residents have access to reliable and affordable energy.”
10.21.2015	Rep. Ron Kind’s Statement on President Obama’s Announcement of New Standards to Combat Opioid Abuse Would help Combat the Opioid Over Prescriptions Seen at Tomah VA La Crosse, WI– Today, President Barack Obama announcednew actions to stop abuse of prescription painkillers and help treat people fighting opioid addiction. Included as part of the actions is training for VA health care professionals on proper prescription protocols for opioid medications, which will help fix one of the biggest problems we saw at the Tomah VA Medical Center. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement:“I applaud President Obama taking actions to address proper pain management for our veterans. As we learned at the Tomah VA, over prescription and misuse of opioids has dangerous consequences. The first step in addressing the problem is making sure we better inform health care professionals about the risks associated with over prescribing, and this proposal helps with that important step. More needs to be done, so I will continue my work on the Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which establishes pain management oversight boards to help find alternative and complementary treatments to pain management.”In May, Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which would establish a pain management oversight board within each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) comprised of health care professionals and clinical patients and/or family members of a clinical patient. Recently, he joined Rep. Ribble to introduce the Veterans Access to Care Act, which would fix recruitment problems the VA is having in Tomah, Wausau, Wisconsin Rapids, and other parts of the state.
10.21.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Co-Sponsors Bill to Expand Access to Outdoor Recreation Activities La Crosse, WI–Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) co-sponsored the bipartisan Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, which reauthorizes a number of measures to expand access for hunting and other outdoor activities. “For many families in western and central Wisconsin, including my own, outdoor reaction is a time to bond with loved ones and enjoy the outdoors,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m passionate about protecting the rights of hunters and anglers across the country so they can pass on the sporting tradition to future generations. The SHARE Act will provide better access to outdoor opportunities and will protect Wisconsin’s abundant natural resources.”The legislation was introduced by Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA), Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN), and Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC). It is a package of bills aimed at expanding access to outdoor recreation and protecting the rights of hunters, including: · Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act: Modifies the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to increase the proportion of funding from the Act that states may use for acquiring land for public target ranges.· Recreational Fishing and Hunting Heritage and Opportunities Act: Federal public land management officials must facilitate hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting on certain federal public land.· Farmer and Hunter Protection Act: Revises standards for determining what a baited area is for purposes of the prohibition on taking migratory game birds. Recently, Rep. Kind introduced the Sportsmen’s Conservation and Outdoor Recreation Enhancement (SCORE) Act, which reauthorizes a number of measures to conserve hunting and fishing habitats. He is a longtime member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and has previously served as both the vice chair and co-chair of the caucus.
10.20.2015	Representatives for Congressman Kind Hold Open Office Hours Will be in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third District La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that over the next three weeks representatives from his district offices will be available at open office hours in all 18 counties in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District.“Our office is always working to be accessible and helpful to residents of central and western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I hope that people will take advantage of these open office hours to come share their thoughts and seek help to solve problems they may be having with a federal agency.” Rep. Kind’s office can assist people who are having trouble dealing with the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Internal Revenue Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and a number of other federal agencies.District Office representatives will be available at the dates, times and locations listed below: Thursday, October 22, 2015 10:00 -11 a.m. City of Hillsboro - City Hall Council Chambers123 Mechanic StreetHillsboro, WI 54634 12:00 -1 p.m. City of Richland Center Municipal Building - Conference Room450 South Main StreetRichland Center, WI 53581 2:30-3:30 p.m. Village of MuscodaKratochwill Memorial Municipal Building206 N. Wisconsin Ave.Muscoda, WI 53573 Monday, Oct. 26, 20159:30-10:30 a.m. Village of Almond-Village Hall122 Main StreetAlmond, Wi 54909 11:30-12:30 p.m. City of Adams-Community Center569 N. Cedar St. Room 103Adams, WI 53901 Tuesday, Oct. 27, 201510:00-11:00 a.m. City of Sparta- City Council Chambers201 West Oak StreetSparta, WI 54656 Wednesday, Oct. 28, 2015 9:00-10:00 a.m. Village of Rudolph - Village Hall1580 Main St.Rudolph, WI 54475 1:00-2:00 p.m. Hatch Public Library-Conference Meeting Room111 West State StreetMauston, WI 53948 Wednesday, Oct 28, 2015 1:00- 2:00 p.m. Village of Gays Mills16381 State Hwy 131, Suite 1Gays Mills, WI 54631 3:00 – 4:00 p.m. Southwest Wisconsin Technical CollegeRoom 4901800 Bronson BoulevardFennimore, WI 53809 Wednesday, November 4, 201510:30 -11:30 a.m. Prescott City Hall – Council Chambers 800 Borner Street N Prescott, WI 54021 1:00 -2:00 p.m. Pepin Municipal Center – Community Room 508 Second Street Pepin, WI 54759 Thursday, November 5, 2015 10:30-11:30 a.m. Jackson County Court House – County Board Room – 2nd Floor 307 Main Street Black River Falls, WI 54615 1:00 - 2:00 a.m. Trempealeau County Office Building – County Board Room 36245 Main Street Whitehall, WI 54773 Friday, November 6, 2015 10:00 -11:00 a.m. Alma City Hall – City Council Chambers 314 N. Main Street Alma, WI 54610
10.16.2015	Tomah, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind visited the Tomah VA Medical Center to meet with Victoria Brahm, new Acting Director, and receive an update on the implementation of policies to fix the problems at the facility.“I look forward to working with Acting Director Brahm, as she continues the work John Rohrer started, to implement meaningful changes at the Tomah VA. While Tomah VA has taken steps to implement needed changes there is still work to be done. We owe it to our veterans to ensure they are receiving the care they earned and deserve,” Rep. Kind stated.Rep. Kind brought together the entire Wisconsin delegation to sponsor his bill, the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, which will ensure greater transparency and oversight into the office of inspector general. He has also been actively engaged in ensuring that the Tomah VA is implementing policies that will fix the problems that occurred and ensure our veterans receive the care and treatment that they deserve. Just recently, he joined Rep. Ribble to introduce the Veterans Access to Care Act, which would fix recruitment problems the VA is having in Tomah, Wausau, Wisconsin Rapids, and other parts of the state.
10.15.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced that U.S. Commerce Department’s Economic Development Administration has awarded $50,222 to the Mississippi River Regional Planning Commission to be used for an economic development in Buffalo County.“The Mississippi River Regional Planning Commission has been doing great work in Buffalo County to support local businesses and workers. As the community looks to the future this money will help allow workers to adapt to the changing job market.”
10.15.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind sent a letter to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting they investigate the public safety risks posed by blocked grade crossings. This comes on the heels of concerns from Wisconsinites about the negative impact blocked grade crossings are having on communities back home.“In the last few months I hosted listening sessions across Western and Central Wisconsin, and one of the concerns I heard repeatedly was railroads cutting off communities by blocking grade crossings,” Rep. Kind stated. “These blocked crossings are not only an impediment to everyday life but also a serious public safety hazard. I have requested GAO immediately begin investigating and report on the negative impact this action is having on our communities.”In September Rep. Kind held a meeting with local officials from Central Wisconsin and the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to discuss ways to fix the problem. He has also spoken directly with Sarah Fienberg, the Acting Director of FRA. Additionally, he has written letters on this issue to Canadian National Railroad and the Federal Railroad Administration.
10.08.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind led twenty of his colleagues in sending a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan urging him to work with federal agencies to integrate the Yelp platform into their operations.“If we want to make government work better, we should make it easier for people to say what’s working – and what isn’t. That is why the New Democrat Coalition and I have been working for some time on harnessing already available technological capabilities to hold government agencies more accountable and provide an avenue for hardworking Americans to provide feedback on their experiences,” Rep. Kind stated. “I hope Director Donovan will immediately begin working diligently with all federal agencies to set up Yelp pages to better respond to public feedback.”This comes on the heels of GSA and Yelp recently reaching an agreement that will enable federal agencies to claim and operate Yelp pages. Earlier this year, in a letter sent to GSA , Chairman Kind called for a swift process to facilitate an agreement with Yelp to allow government agencies to use the Yelp platform.Yelp is an online social network that allows people to post reviews on business, restaurants, and other entities they visit. Yelp then uses public comments to give the establishment an overall rating.Find a copy of the letter here.
10.08.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Introduces Investing in 21st Century Schools ActRenews Program to help Wisconsin Schools Expand Educational Opportunities La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced the bipartisan Investing in 21st Century Schools Act, to renew a program to assist eligible Wisconsin schools with accessing money to make needed improvements. These improvements could range from building a new curriculum to upgrading the facilities in order to give students the opportunity to compete in 21st century jobs.“One of the smartest investments we can make is investing in education for young people. In order to have the opportunity to compete in the new global economy our students will need to excel in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education. This bill would ensure Wisconsin schools continue to have access to funds to help expand education programs, purchase new technology, and upgrade facilities,” Rep. Kind stated.This bill would extend the Qualified Zone Activity Bonds (QZABs) program for schools. QZABs are 10-25 year loans the federal government pays interest on. Loans may be used for facilities renovation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, equipment, curriculum development, or teacher training. Because the federal government provides the interest payment, the district then is typically only responsible for repaying the value of the bond.
10.01.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today at 12:01am House Republicans allowed the Land and Water Conservation Fund to officially expire. Rep. Kind has long been a supporter of the fund and submitted a statement for the record urging the immediate reauthorization.“The Land and Water Conservation Fund was established fifty years ago and has since become our nation’s most successful conservation program - all without spending a single dime of taxpayer dollars. It is shameful that the House majority has let this vital program expire,” Rep. Kind stated. “We know that every dollar spent acquiring LWCF land creates a return of four dollars to local Wisconsin communities, which is why I am encouraging an immediate renewal.”Earlier this year Rep. Kind welcomed Secretary Sally Jewell of the Department of the Interior to La Crosse to discuss the success and local impact of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Wisconsin has received $211 million to fund such projects as the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest, the Lower St. Croix National Scenic River, and the Ice Age National Scenic Trail, where the Land and Water Conservation Fund participated in a highly successful public-private partnership to preserve additional sections of the trail.
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C.– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) released the following statement after voting in favor of a Continuing Resolution to keep the government funded until December 2015:“While this bill helps us avoid a disastrous government shutdown for the next 10 weeks, the House majority must start thinking long-term and stop pursuing a piecemeal approach to governing that fosters uncertainty and stifles economic growth. Wisconsin families, seniors, and businesses deserve a stable, predictable government that can keep the doors open and the bills paid.”
09.29.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) introduced legislation to assist the Department of Veterans Affairs in recruiting talented doctors to Wisconsin VA facilities. In recent years a number of VA clinics, including ones in Wisconsin Rapids and Wausau, have been forced to turn away patients due to staffing shortages. The Tomah VA Medical Center has also been forced to cut back services due to problems recruiting physicians. This legislation would help fix these problems.“In Wisconsin’s third district we have seen a number of VA facilities turn our veterans away and stop offering vital services due to a shortage of physicians. That is unacceptable. This is a matter of fairness to our veterans – they served our country, and they deserve proper health care. Through more recruiting tools to bring good doctors to Wisconsin, we can better fulfill our promise to our veterans of quality health care,” Rep. Kind stated.This bill was co-sponsored by Rep. Reid Ribble(WI-08). It designates the Department of Veterans Affairs medical facilities as Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs). By making this designation, it allows these sites to compete for National Health Service Corps fellows, which is a program that pays student loan repayment or gives scholarships to doctors, dentists, mental health professionals, nurses, or medical students who pledge to practice in a HPSA for at least two years.
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Speaker John Boehner announced that he plans to resign effective October 30th. Below is Rep. Ron Kind’s statement:“Speaker Boehner has been a friend since the days we served on the House Education and Workforce committee together. He was tasked with making Congress function, but was often stopped at every turn by members of his own party who refused to work together to get to yes. In light of this frustration I am not surprised he is stepping down. I wish him the best in his future endeavors.”
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Speaker John Boehner announced that he plans to resign effective October 30th. Below is Rep. Ron Kind’s statement:“Speaker Boehner has been a friend since the days we served on the House Education and Workforce committee together. He was tasked with making Congress function, but was often stopped at every turn by members of his own party who refused to work together to get to yes. In light of this frustration I am not surprised he is stepping down. I wish him the best in his future endeavors.”
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Speaker John Boehner announced that he plans to resign effective October 30th. Below is Rep. Ron Kind’s statement:“Speaker Boehner has been a friend since the days we served on the House Education and Workforce committee together. He was tasked with making Congress function, but was often stopped at every turn by members of his own party who refused to work together to get to yes. In light of this frustration I am not surprised he is stepping down. I wish him the best in his future endeavors.”
09.24.2015	Washington, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind released the following statement today on Pope Francis' address to the Joint Meeting of Congress:“Today I had the opportunity to hear Pope Francis’ historic address to a joint session of Congress and the American people. As the leader of the Catholic Church, which is home to nearly 1.6 million Wisconsinites, Pope Francis addressed a number of important issues. He reminded us once again of the importance of working together as a community to help those less fortunate and support those who need a little extra help.”
09.18.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) announced that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will give a $219,274 grant to Southwest Badger Resource Conservation & Development Council – based out of Platteville, WI - for their project which assists beginning farmers in better understanding basic farm financial management.“The work being done by Southwest Badger Resource Conservation & Development Council ensures our long tradition of farming in Wisconsin is carried forward by young farmers and that agriculture remains a vital economic driver in the state,” Rep. Kind stated. “With this funding Southwest Badger Resource Conservation & Development Council will be able to offer more Wisconsinites an opportunity to start farming. With financial coaching and an experienced livestock farmer-mentor to provide guidance they will help ensure success.”“We are very excited about this opportunity to help beginning farmers & ranchers to be successful and to promote contract grazing which will strengthen the local economy and as well as farmland preservation efforts. Increasing the number of small farms with good management practices and increasing grazing acreage are excellent ways to improve the economy and at the same time reduce soil erosion and improve water quality,” stated Wendy Warren, Executive Director, Southwest Badger Resource Conservation & Development Council.This funding comes from the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program which is focused on addressing the difficulties that new agricultural entrepreneurs face.
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN) introduced the Transparency Requirements for Agency Conferences and Events (TRACE) Act, a bipartisan bill that will bring transparency, accountability and fiscal responsibility to federal agency conferences.“Wisconsin taxpayers expect their government not to waste taxpayer dollars on extravagant accommodations, unnecessary luxuries, or special perks,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill will ensure federal workers get the training and information needed to do their jobs effectively, while putting oversight in place to guarantee that federal agencies aren’t wasting time or taxpayer money.”“Congress has a duty to ensure that the taxpayer dollars paid by hard-working Minnesotans are spent wisely and responsibly,” said Rep. Paulsen. “Federal agency conferences should be not be lavish gatherings with excessive gifts and perks. By guaranteeing oversight, we can save taxpayer money and ensure that our government is efficient and effective.” The TRACE Act will increase transparency of agencies by requiring a comprehensive report describing the costs associated with any proposed conference, retreat, seminar or other such event being organized by a federal agency.The bill requires 30 days before a conference begins, an itemized statement of the cost of attending or hosting the conference, the names of keynote speakers, a list of conference attendees, the conference location and itinerary, and a summary of the purposes and goals of the event. By requiring that this information be made public, this bill would greatly reduce the overall likelihood of an agency hosting or sending employees to an unnecessary conference that serves no needed civic purpose.
09.16.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) announced that the Veterans Assistance Foundation, based in Tomah, will receive a grant for $619,140 from the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide transitional housing, rapid re-housing, homelessness prevention services and access to benefit services for veterans and their families in the state of Wisconsin.“Veterans Assistance Foundation has an outstanding history of addressing the needs and supporting homeless veterans and their families in Wisconsin, which is why I was very glad to hear that the Department of Veterans Affairs approved their grant request,” said Rep. Kind. “With this money they will be able to expand their excellent program and better address the needs of homeless veterans and their families.” "With nearly 15 years of sustained combat operations, the need is greater, now more than ever to provide support for our veterans”, said Christopher Hanson, President of Veterans Assistance Foundation, Inc. “This year, we were able to assist 236 veteran families who were either homeless or at risk of being homeless. In 2016, we forecast that we are going to help even more.”Rep. Kind wrote a letter of support to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program to help Veterans Assistance Foundation secure the grant. Find a full list of grant recipients here.
09.15.2015	La Crosse, WI – A recently released study from the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development warns that U.S. cotton subsidies likely still violate World Trade Organization commitments.“Not that long ago in an outrageous waste of taxpayer dollars, the U.S. was ordered to pay Brazilian cotton farmers over $300 million because of our nation’s own cotton subsidies. It is clear we have not learned our lesson. We need to get our house in order and reform our subsidies programs in their entirety. Sending a huge payoff to Brazil was clearly not the answer,” concluded Rep. Kind. “If my old boss, the late Senator Bill Proxmire, were still giving out his famous Golden Fleece Awards our policy on cotton subsides would be a guaranteed winner.”Rep. Kind was a leading advocate for eliminating wasteful payments to Brazilian cotton farmers, and will continue his efforts to protect American taxpayers from funding wasteful subsidy programs, create a more equitable safety net for farmers, reform outdated agriculture policies, and maintain protections for our sensitive lands and waters.
09.10.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) sent a letter to Canadian National Railroad urging them to work with communities and local authorities to reduce the serious public safety risks posed by blocking grade crossings for extended periods of time.“In talking with people across Wisconsin’s 3rd district one of the issues that has continually been brought up is the disregard rail companies, like Canadian National Railroad, have been showing for the public safety of our communities,” Rep Kind stated. “In rural communities the ability to cross a road at a certain place may mean the difference between 2 minutes of travel and 20 minutes of travel, which is why I am urging Canadian National to stop blocking these crucial intersections and be a better partner and neighbor.”Please find a copy of the letter here.
09.04.2015	LA CROSSE, WI – Today,Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3) announced his support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). A vote is expected in Congress on the resolution later this week. Below is his statement:“I have carefully studied the text of the agreement, attended classified briefings, reviewed classified documents compiled by Intelligence agencies, listened to the thoughts and concerns of Wisconsinites, and met with experts on both sides of the issue, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during a recent trip to Israel. Although the agreement is not a perfect solution to a complex problem, I believe the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) is the best option in order to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.“Iran’s history of cheating on agreements, such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, has fostered an environment of distrust, which is why this agreement is based on “distrust and verify”. The agreement will be enforced and monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) with our help and resources.“This agreement gives us the best opportunity to avoid military action and may accomplish our ultimate objective: to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon, protecting the security of our allies in the region, and avoiding a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.”
08.17.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced a$1.3 million grant for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources to improve and increase wildlife habitat and public access for recreational opportunities on privately-owned and operated farms and forest lands. Rep. Kind released the below statement:“I’m pleased to see the Department of Agriculture is increasing the opportunity for Wisconsinites to enjoy our beautiful surroundings. From supporting our farming and tourism industries to our rich hunting and fishing traditions, we owe so much to our rivers, lakes, hills and forests,” Rep. Kind stated. “With the increased support of outdoor recreation we can all encourage appreciation for the environment and cultivate a generation that will be good stewards of our land and wildlife for years to come.”
08.06.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, marks the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act being signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on August 6, 1965. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement:“As we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the hallmark Voting Rights Act and the progress we have made since then, we must also remember that we still a lot have work to do. In Wisconsin, Governor Walker signed legislation that made it harder for thousands of veterans, seniors, minorities, students and disabled Wisconsinites to exercise their right to vote.“The right to vote is fundamental to our democracy, and attacks against that right have no place in America. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to support bipartisan legislation that would restore the voting rights the Supreme Court struck down two years ago and work to ensure everyone has the ability to use their right to vote.”
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind issued the following statement regarding the 50th Anniversary of Medicare, which is July 30th, 2015:“Today marks the 50th anniversary of one of the most successful programs ever created in this country: Medicare. This program provides guaranteed affordable health care for over 123,000 seniors in central and western Wisconsin. Without this critical program, far too many Wisconsin seniors would be left without health care. Instead, nearly all seniors have coverage.“As the Medicare program moves forward, we must continue to contain health care costs by not making dramatic cuts that destroy the program as we know it, but by reforming our health care system to pay for the value of care, not the volume of care. That is how health care providers in Wisconsin are providing better care at a better price. And that is how we can increase efficiency and ensure affordable health care coverage for years to come.”
07.30.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, Rep Ron Kind (WI-3) wrote a letter to Speaker Boehner and Minority Leader Pelosi urging them to take up the Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act and the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, his legislation to fix the issues at the Department of Veterans Affairs.“Before the House adjourns for August we must take steps to address the issues facing our veterans and VA facilities. We must do everything we can to make sure the problems that occurred at the Tomah VA never happen again, and that’s why I am fighting to increase transparency and give veteran patients and their families an important role in VA oversight of patient care,” said Rep. Kind. “Providing quality care for our veterans is not a partisan issue. Both of these bills have bipartisan support and would be important steps towards improving care for veterans across the country.”The Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, H.R. 1628, the bill would establish a pain management board within each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) comprised of health care professionals and clinical patients and/or family members of a clinical patient.The Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015, H.R. 1938, would require OIG work products to be published on the OIG website and delivered to the appropriate establishment heads and congressional representatives within three days of completion.
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind issued the following statement regarding the 50th Anniversary of Medicare, which is July 30th, 2015:“Today marks the 50th anniversary of one of the most successful programs ever created in this country: Medicare. This program provides guaranteed affordable health care for over 123,000 seniors in central and western Wisconsin. Without this critical program, far too many Wisconsin seniors would be left without health care. Instead, nearly all seniors have coverage.“As the Medicare program moves forward, we must continue to contain health care costs by not making dramatic cuts that destroy the program as we know it, but by reforming our health care system to pay for the value of care, not the volume of care. That is how health care providers in Wisconsin are providing better care at a better price. And that is how we can increase efficiency and ensure affordable health care coverage for years to come.”
07.23.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) introduced the bipartisan Sportsmen’s Conservation and Outdoor Recreation Enhancement (SCORE) Act, which reauthorizes a number of measures to conserve hunting and fishing habitats.“Each of us in western and central Wisconsin is keenly aware of how important the outdoors is to our daily lives and local economy. The Sportsmen’s Conservation and Outdoor Recreation Enhancement Act takes important steps towards protecting our treasured natural habitat so future generations can continue to enjoy them,” said Rep. Kind.The legislation was also introduced by Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN), Rep. Rob Whittman (R-VA), and Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC). It is a package of seven bills all aimed at habitat conservation. Below is a list of the measures:National Fish Habitat Initiative (NFHI) Sense of Congress: Expresses the Sense of Congress that the mission of NFHI is to protect, restore, and enhance the Nation’s fish populations through partnerships that foster fish habitat conservation and improve the quality of life for the American people.Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act Reauthorization (FLTFA): Reauthorizes the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM's) authority to sell land to private land owners, counties, companies and others for ranching, community development and various projects. This "Land for Land" approach creates jobs and generates funding for BLM, U.S. Forest Service (USFS), National Park Service (NPS) and U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) to acquire critical inholdings from willing sellers. The sales revenue allows agencies to acquire high priority lands with important wildlife habitat value and recreational access for hunting and fishing.North American Wetlands Conservation Act Reauthorization (NAWCA): Reauthorizes the North American Wetlands Conservation Act for another five years.National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act: The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF) was established by Congress in 1984 to catalyze private investments to conserve fish, wildlife, and their habitats. Since its inception, NFWF has raised more than $1.4 billion in private contributions and grantee matching funds. The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act would provide necessary authorities for the Foundation to ensure its continued success moving forward.Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act: Reflecting a provision championed by Rep. Kind, reauthorizes the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act through FY2020 to help protect migratory birds.Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program Act: Reauthorizes a key FWS partnership program which allows the USFWS to provide technical and financial assistance to private landowners to restore, enhance, and manage private land to improve fish and wildlife habitats through the Partners for Fish and Wildlife Program.Making Public Lands Public: An authorization that would amend the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act and allocate 1.5% or $10 million, whichever is greater, of LWCF funding to secure public access to existing federal public lands.Rep. Kind is a longtime member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and has previously served as both the vice chair and co-chair of the caucus.
07.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND) introduced the bipartisan Federal Land Asset Inventory Reform (FLAIR) Act. The bill requires the Department of Interior (DOI) to increase transparency and efficiency by conducting an inventory of its federal property holdings and integrating the findings into one database that can track and manage property.“The current system from tracking the federal government’s real property is inefficient and redundant. The FLAIR Act improves data management to help eliminate fraud, waste and redundancies, and it’s something I’ve been focused on since my days doing research for Senator William Proxmire’s ‘Golden Fleece’ awards, which pointed out wasteful government spending,” said Rep. Kind. “The federal government needs to be taking steps to use the technology available to increase transparency and streamline operations.”“Transparency ensures a more effective, efficient and honest government. Businesses must create and maintain accurate databases in order to pay taxes and it is disappointing the federal government must be forced to apply this same standard to itself. The lack of a database deprives citizens of exercising the oversight necessary for good government. I am happy to introduce this legislation with Representative Kind and help modernize the federal government,” said Rep. Cramer.The federal government is the largest landowner in the United States, managing an estimated total of 660 million acres or one-third of the total land area. A study conducted by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that managing federal real property is an area of the federal government that is most susceptible to waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayer money.Federal land managers often do not have precise and updated data detailing exactly what lands and infrastructure the federal government owns, because there is not one current and accurate database available. A new inventory and updated management database would identify and eliminate redundancy and duplication that costs millions of taxpayer dollars each year.
07.16.2015	La Crosse, WI – Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) became a cosponsor on a bipartisan bill introduced by U.S. Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI ) and U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) to eliminate the divisive practice of gerrymandering and the hyper-partisanship of the redistricting process by establishing an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years.“I applaud the work being done by a bipartisan group of Wisconsinites to fix the legislative maps in Wisconsin. However, we can also be taking steps on the federal level to find a common sense solution to the hyper partisanship that has been seen in redistricting,” said U.S. Rep. Kind. “The reforms proposed in this bill will work to ensure that all Wisconsinites have their voice heard in the political process and adds transparency to the elections process.”“Rep. Ribble and Rep. Cooper are taking on the Party establishments with this legislation, designed to bring power back to the people,” said former Sen. Dale Schultz (R-Richland Center). “I’m thankful that support for the bill is growing, and citizens concerned about our country’s future should appreciate Congressman Kind’s support as well.”“Rep. Kind has long been a champion for the people of western and central Wisconsin, and has been willing to buck Party leadership,” said former Sen. Tim Cullen (D-Janesville). “This is the right issue to pick such a fight on and I commend Rep. Kind for co-sponsoring the John Tanner Act so voters can choose their Federal Representatives, instead of the other way around. I thank Rep. Ribble and Rep. Cooper for putting this bill forward.”Senators Schultz and Cullen are both former Majority Leaders of the Wisconsin State Senate, and are co-chairing the Wisconsin Fair Elections Project, a campaign to end partisan gerrymandering.According to the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index, only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive and the number of “swing seats” is at a record low of 90 out of 435.The bill is based in part on the non-partisan commission model used in the neighboring state of Iowa.
07.16.2015	La Crosse, WI – Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) became a cosponsor on a bipartisan bill introduced by U.S. Rep. Reid Ribble (R-WI ) and U.S. Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) to eliminate the divisive practice of gerrymandering and the hyper-partisanship of the redistricting process by establishing an independent, bipartisan redistricting commission to redraw congressional district lines once every 10 years.“I applaud the work being done by a bipartisan group of Wisconsinites to fix the legislative maps in Wisconsin. However, we can also be taking steps on the federal level to find a common sense solution to the hyper partisanship that has been seen in redistricting,” said U.S. Rep. Kind. “The reforms proposed in this bill will work to ensure that all Wisconsinites have their voice heard in the political process and adds transparency to the elections process.”“Rep. Ribble and Rep. Cooper are taking on the Party establishments with this legislation, designed to bring power back to the people,” said former Sen. Dale Schultz (R-Richland Center). “I’m thankful that support for the bill is growing, and citizens concerned about our country’s future should appreciate Congressman Kind’s support as well.”“Rep. Kind has long been a champion for the people of western and central Wisconsin, and has been willing to buck Party leadership,” said former Sen. Tim Cullen (D-Janesville). “This is the right issue to pick such a fight on and I commend Rep. Kind for co-sponsoring the John Tanner Act so voters can choose their Federal Representatives, instead of the other way around. I thank Rep. Ribble and Rep. Cooper for putting this bill forward.”Senators Schultz and Cullen are both former Majority Leaders of the Wisconsin State Senate, and are co-chairing the Wisconsin Fair Elections Project, a campaign to end partisan gerrymandering.According to the Cook Political Report’s Partisan Voting Index, only 20 percent of House districts are considered competitive and the number of “swing seats” is at a record low of 90 out of 435.The bill is based in part on the non-partisan commission model used in the neighboring state of Iowa.
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) introduced the bipartisan Giveback Deficit Reduction Act to promote fiscal responsibility in the halls of Congress and begin fixing Washington the Wisconsin way.“Having worked for Senator Bill Proxmire of Wisconsin investigating wasteful government spending programs for his Golden Fleece Award, I learned from the best when it comes to ensuring fiscal responsibility,” said Rep. Kind. “Every year I work to find savings in my office budget and to date have given back more than 1.6 million dollars. This legislation would ensure the money given back by my office and others like mine is used to pay down the debt and not for any other purpose,” Rep. Kind stated.Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Ron Kind has continuously worked to promote fiscal responsibility. This year, he returned over $92,000 dollars from his annual office budget to taxpayers. Rep. Kind has maintained his giveback practice every year he has been in Washington and in total has now returned more than $1.6 million. Rep. Kind is also a firm supporter of spending reform – specifically in the areas of rapidly rising healthcare costs, outdated defense systems, and agricultural subsidies that benefit large agribusinesses as opposed to family farmers.Rep. Kind introduced the Giveback Deficit Reduction Act along with Rep. Ribble (R-WI), Rep. Duckworth (D-IL), and Rep Tiberi (R-OH). The legislation directs the Treasury Department to use all returned Congressional office budget funds to directly pay down the annual deficit. Encouraging Members of Congress to act frugally with their office budgets is the first step towards getting America’s fiscal house in order.
07.14.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep Ron Kind (W-3) released the following statement after the announcement from the Obama administration that an agreement has been reached with Iran:“Iran’s history of cheating on agreements has fostered an environment of distrust, which makes it necessary for Members of Congress to study the agreement to ensure Iran is held to high verification standards and our inspectors have adequate access to all sites. It is easier to deal with an Iran without a nuclear weapon than trying to work backwards once Iran has developed a weapon. In the coming weeks I look forward to carefully evaluating the agreement and attending classified briefings to guarantee the security and safety of our country and our allies in the region.”
07.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep Ron Kind (WI-3) announced today that his office is now accepting applications from individuals interested in attending one of our nation’s service academies. Students must submit their applications by Friday, October 16, 2015.“I am always impressed by the motivated, disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate outstanding students from western and central Wisconsin to become our military leaders of the future, and I’m looking forward to meeting this year’s applicants.”A Congressional nomination is required for students wishing to attend the:• U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York• U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland• U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado• U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New YorkThe application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance for the following year.Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting Mark Aumann in Rep. Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official website:https://kind.house.gov/academy-nominations/
07.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind led a bipartisan coalition of members from the Wisconsin Delegation in urging the Oversight and Government Reform Committee to advance the Inspector General Transparency Act, legislation he introduced to ensure a situation like Tomah never happens again.“In light of the recent resignation of the acting inspector general it is the time to take the necessary steps to increase transparency in the VA Inspector General’s office. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of my Wisconsin colleagues to request the House Oversight Committee to pass my legislation to ensure greater transparency in the Office of the Inspector General,” Rep Kind stated. “Providing quality care for our veterans is not a partisan issue. Working together to ensure greater transparency in not only the VA system, but all federal agencies, we can make sure the tragic events at Tomah are never repeated.”Rep. Sensenbrenner, Rep. Moore, Rep. Ryan, Rep. Pocan, Rep. Ribble, and Rep. Duffy all signed onto the letter.The bipartisan Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to require that, no later than three days after completion, all Office of inspector General (OIG) reports are published on the OIG website and submitted to the head of the establishment under investigation, the individual or entity requesting the investigation, the Senate Committees on Homeland Security and Government Affairs and Appropriations, the House Committees on Oversight and Government Reform and Appropriations, Congressional committees of jurisdiction, and Members of Congress upon request.
07.08.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) introduced legislation to grow American manufacturing and create jobs by cutting taxes for American manufacturers.“In Wisconsin, 16% of our private workforce is involved in the manufacturing sector; well above the national average of 9%. Investing in American manufacturing is critical to remaining competitive in a global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Reducing the effective tax rate gives our manufacturers greater opportunity to succeed globally and create jobs. It will help them keep facilities in Wisconsin, produce American goods, hire American workers, and continue to grow and innovate.”“As a Grower-Owned Cooperative, Ocean Spray is proud to support American manufacturing right here in Wisconsin and in other parts of the country,” said Fran Podvin, a member of Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc.’s Board of Directors. “With the passage of this bill, Ocean Spray can continue to invest in -- and create jobs at – our manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin. We strongly support efforts to facilitate the needed investments in the rural communities supported by the U.S. cranberry industry and related agriculture industries and commend Representative Kind for his efforts to stimulate U.S. jobs and manufacturing.”“The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act would have a positive impact on USA manufactures. It helps job growth and economic stability,” said Jeff S. Darley, Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer of Darley & Co. “We must have tax reforms such as this in order to be competitive in the world market place. Darley supports this act, which will help us to invest in job growth and create more opportunities in a competitive playing field in the world market place.”The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2940), creates a new section of the tax code to promote American manufacturing by reducing the effective tax rate of domestic manufacturers to 20%. This will provide important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring domestically, and those firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth here at home.
07.02.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, President Barack Obama was in La Crosse to talk about Middle Class Economics and announce his proposal for the Department of Labor to extend overtime pay to nearly 5 million workers. Below is Rep. Kind's statement on the speech:"Today I join my fellow Wisconsinites who came to watch the President's speech in thanking him for visiting western Wisconsin. I share President Obama's belief that anyone who puts in a hard day's work should be paid fairly, and am looking forward to working with the Administration on this proposal as it moves forward," Rep Kind stated."While the economy has gotten better there is still work to be done to grow the economy and create jobs. I will continue working with colleagues from both sides of the aisle to ensure that Americans are able to find good-paying jobs that allow them to send their children to college and save for retirement."
06.26.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, with the Obergefell v. Hodges decision the Supreme Court struck down state bans on same-sex marriage and will now require states to recognize marriages performed in other states in accordance with the Fourteenth Amendment. Below is Rep. Kind’s statement:“Today I think of the numerous couples and individuals who over the years have told me their stories of not being allowed to realize full equality and the American Dream. Throughout my 20-year marriage to Tawni, I’ve learned that our love and support for each other makes both of us stronger. We are all part of the American community and every member of our community deserves to be free from discrimination.“With this decision young LGBT children will now grow up knowing they have access to the same rights as their peers. As a nation we have taken a tremendous step forward in ensuring fairness and equality for all.”
06.25.2015	La Crosse, WI – Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) released the following statement after the Supreme Court decision in favor of Burwell in the King v. Burwell case.“I am pleased but not surprised by the Supreme Court’s decision. Today, the court made the right decision and gave 166,000 Wisconsinites certainty that they can continue to access the affordable health care coverage they rely on,” Rep. Kind stated.“However, even with this decision there is still work to be done. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure all Americans have access to better care at a better price.”
06.24.2015	La Crosse, WI – Throughout the month of June U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) has attended a number of dairy breakfasts at family farms across western and central Wisconsin.“Family farmers are critical to providing the food security that we need throughout our nation. June Dairy Month gives us a great opportunity to go out and visit our local family farms. There is no better way to start off a weekend then getting together with the community to enjoy a delicious Dairy Breakfast,” Rep. Kind stated.This past weekend Ron attended dairy breakfasts in La Crosse and Vernon Counties. At the Vernon County breakfast on the Eness family farm Ron caught up with Orion Samuelson, host of the National Farm Report, at the farm he grew up on.Rep. Kind has made family farms a top priority, helping to remove unnecessary regulations to ensure that young people can help out on their farms and working to fix our commodity programs to ensure that they benefit family farms instead of large agribusinesses. Additionally, Rep. Kind is also working hard to expand export opportunities around the world for Wisconsin dairy producers.
06.22.2015	Eau Claire, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced today that he is returning $92,273.51 to the U.S. Treasury to help pay down the deficit. Rep. Kind has donated a portion of his congressional budget every year since first taking office, for a total of $1.6 million returned to taxpayers.“Every year, I find savings in my office budget and have given back more than $1.6million to the taxpayers,” Rep. Kind stated. “Wisconsinites know the value of a dollar and I’m working hard to change our spending priorities to get our budget back on track so our children and grandchildren aren’t left to deal with our debt.”In addition to his annual budget givebacks, Rep. Kind is a leading voice for fiscal responsibility in Congress. He’s working to reform spending in three key areas: rising health care costs, defense spending and outdated farm subsidy programs that benefit a handful of large agribusinesses. He has also consistently opposed the automatic cost-of-living increase for Members of Congress, and worked to reform the tax code to make sure that everyone pays their fair share.Overall, congressional office budgets have been cut by 16% since Fiscal Year 2010.
06.10.2015	Rep. Ron Kind Fights to Protect the Wisconsin Education SystemIntroduced a resolution to protect and commemorate the Wisconsin IdeaWashington, DC– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind introduced a resolution to protect and commemorate the Wisconsin Idea as a fundamental part of the University of Wisconsin system. The Wisconsin Idea has been part of the fabric of our state for over 100 years. Generations of Wisconsinites have been guided by the values of giving back both inside and outside the classroom and fostering our students’ potential.“Investing in higher education and helping foster the Wisconsin Idea is one of the smartest decisions we can make. Every dollar we invest today will pay dividends down the road and help ensure that Wisconsin can compete in the global marketplace,” Rep. Kind stated. “What does the Wisconsin Idea mean? It means every Wisconsinite gets the opportunity to learn and better themselves. It is a compact made for generations now between our state and every Wisconsin citizen and family that says: If you work hard, you will have the opportunity to learn and succeed. Our state’s education system is the backbone of the Wisconsin Way, and it must not be dismantled by petty partisans and political opportunists.”Governor Walker’s proposed plan to slash $300 million in funding from the UW System will put our students at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy, and make it harder for our UW schools to recruit and retain faculty. Other aspects of the state’s education system, including K-12 education, have also been under attack recently. Through partnerships with K-12 educators and students, the University of Wisconsin System has perpetuated the Wisconsin Idea by working to improve the quality of K-12 education throughout the state.U.S. Rep. Mark Pocan and U.S. Rep. Gwen Moore have co-sponsored the resolution. Attached is a copy of the resolution text. -30-
05.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Recently, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-3) received the Presidential Citation award from Wisconsin Medical Society President Dr. Richard Dart. The award recognizes Wisconsinites who have made significant contributions to improving overall public health.“It is an honor to receive the Presidential Citation Award. Wisconsin families deserve access to affordable high-quality health care, which is why I will continue to push for better access to care, improved early detection of diseases, and more affordable health care for Wisconsin families,” Rep. Kind stated.
05.07.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) participated in a town hall at the Tomah VA that was open to the public and was hosted by Dr. Carolyn Clancy, VA Interim Under Secretary for Health. The town hall focused on the recent issues surrounding veterans care.“Today’s town hall provided an important opportunity for dialogue between VA leadership, veterans and their family members,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As the investigations continue, we owe it to our veterans to do everything we can to fix the problems that have occurred at the VA to ensure that they receive the care and treatment that they deserve.”Last month, Rep. Kind led the Wisconsin House delegation in introducing the bipartisan Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015. This bill will increase government transparency by ensuring that all Office of Inspector General (OIG) reports are published on the OIG website and submitted to the head of the establishment under investigation, the individual or entity requesting the investigation, and Congress.Earlier in the year, Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which would establish a pain management oversight board within each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) comprised of health care professionals and clinical patients and/or family members of a clinical patient.
04.30.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released a survey report that studied public opinion about federal support to expand Medicaid in Wisconsin:“This study underscores that Governor Walker needs to listen to the people of Wisconsin and accept federal Medicaid expansion,” said Rep. Kind. “Over 82% of respondents agreed that Medicaid expansion is good for Wisconsin. While Wisconsin faces a $2 billion budget shortfall and Governor Walker is threatening $300 million in cuts to our University System, preventing Wisconsinites from receiving $345 million in benefits we’ve already paid for is totally irresponsible and not in our best interest. I urge Governor Walker to follow the lead of other Republican Governors around the country and accept Medicaid expansion. ”Of those favoring Medicaid expansion:31% said they favor it because Medicaid expansion will provide quality, affordable health coverage to over 150,000 Wisconsinites31% said they favor it because it is irresponsible to refuse $345 million in federal funds when Wisconsin faces a $2 billion budget shortfall22% said they favor it because the federal funding will go to other states if Wisconsin does not expand Medicaid15% said they favor it because Republican Governors across the country have taken federal Medicaid expansion supportRead the full survey results and report here.Last month, Rep. Kind sent Governor Walker a letter calling on him to accept federal Medicaid funding. Read the letter in its entirety here.
04.30.2015	La Crosse, WI– Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined fellow Members of Congress to introduce the Raise the Wage Act. Rep. Kind made the following statement regarding his co-sponsorship of this legislation:“It’s time for America to get a raise,” said Rep. Kind. “People who work full time should never live in poverty. I’m proud to support this bill because it’s good for working families and it’s good for our long-term economic growth. We can and must do more to ensure that workers get a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s work.”The Raise the Wage Act would:Increase the national minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by the year 2020;Index the minimum wage to the median wage starting in 2021;Eliminate the tipped minimum wage gradually by raising the cash wage from the current $2.13 per hour to match the regular minimum wage.
04.29.2015	Washington, DC– Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced a bill encouraging the creation of employee-owned businesses through S Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plans (S ESOPs):“By making it easier for companies to become employee-owned, this legislation will not only grow the number of employee owned businesses, it will provide retirement security to more Americans,” said Rep. Kind. “Employee-owned companies perform better – not just for themselves but for every one of their employees as well. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill forward and strengthen opportunities for employee-ownership in order to unleash their potential to enable more Americans to save smarter for retirement.”Congressman Reichert said, “This legislation is critical to giving employees ownership over their work and retirement in a time when many people are concerned about their retirement savings. By encouraging the establishment of employee-owned businesses, we allow more hard-working Americans a stake in their companies and hope for a secure future. Confidence in the future can only help incentivize workers and grow our economy.”The Promotion and Expansion of Private Employee Ownership Act of 2015 includes provisions to encourage owners of S Corporations to sell their stock to an ESOP, expand financing opportunities for S Corporation ESOPs, provide technical assistance for companies that may be interested in forming an S Corporation ESOP, and ensure that small businesses that become ESOPs retain their Small Business Association certification.
04.23.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today regarding his letter to United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack requesting he detail the agency’s response to the Wisconsin Avian Influenza outbreak: “The public needs to know the details of the USDA’s plan to address and contain this outbreak,” said Rep. Kind. “Hundreds of thousands of birds in Wisconsin have already been affected, and we need a multi-agency collaborative approach to eradicating this disease. This situation affects our agricultural economy and could become a public health concern. I’m calling on the USDA to respond to this issue with the speed and seriousness it requires.”Rep. Kind’s letter asks for prompt responses to the following inquiries:What steps has the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) taken in response to this outbreak? What further actions does the USDA plan to take to prevent further spread of the disease?What is the USDA’s process for developing a vaccine for the H5N2 avian influenza, and what is the expected timeline from inception to commercial distribution of a vaccine?Are there any trade implications with other countries with the use of a vaccine to prevent the spread of the disease?What steps has the USDA taken to raise awareness of this disease?What kind of outreach are the USDA and its state partners doing to farmers and communities to prevent further spread of this disease?Read the letter in its entirety here.
04.23.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today regarding his introduction of the Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids Act (FIT Kids Act) and the Healthy Kids Outdoors Act as part of his healthy living plan:“To develop a healthy mind, you need a healthy body,” said Rep. Kind “Providing increased physical education in public schools will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life. I hope that Congress can consider the importance of physical education in our schools when they take a closer look at education reform later this year.”"Young people today spend less time participating in outdoor activities than ever before," Rep. Kind said. "The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act gives our state and local leaders the tools they need to find new ways to promote active, healthy outdoor lifestyles for kids in Wisconsin and across the nation. If they start early in life, young people will be more likely to care for their health and natural surroundings as adults and then pass those values on to future generations."The FIT Kids Act renews the emphasis on physical education in schools. The Act would work to ensure kids are active during the school day and are given opportunities that promote overall health and wellness. The legislation would engage parents and the public by requiring all school districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard. The Act would further ensure appropriate professional development for health and physical education teachers.The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act provides incentives for states to develop action plans to connect children and families to the great outdoors. The proposal also creates a national strategy to increase outdoor activity and, through coordination with federal and local partners, further identify the health, conservation and other benefits of spending time outdoors.Last month, Rep. Kind unveiled his Healthy Living Plan to make the Healthy Choice the Easy Choice for life. Read the plan in its entirety here.
04.22.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement regarding the appearance of avian influenza on farms in Juneau and Chippewa Counties:“Bird Flu should not be taken lightly and its containment is vital to the health of our communities and our agricultural economy,” said Rep. Kind. “We need a multi-agency collaborative approach to eradicating this disease and that’s why I’m in close contact with the USDA, Wisconsin DATCP, and local authorities to monitor the response and to ensure the necessary measures are being taken. I encourage everyone to avoid contact with sick or dead poultry or wildlife and to report any sick birds to State and Federal officials.”This week, cases of avian influenza were detected in a single mixed-breed flock in Juneau County and a single turkey flock in Chippewa County. No human cases have been reported.Any incidence of sick birds or unusual bird deaths can be reported through the USDA’s toll-free number at 1-866-536-7593Useful information and best practices for protecting animals from avian influenza can be found on the Wisconsin DATCP’s website here.
04.22.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement regarding introduction of the Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015:“I’m proud to have the support of the Wisconsin delegation on this important bill,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Providing quality care for our veterans is not a partisan issue. Working together to ensure greater transparency in not only the VA system, but all federal agencies, we can make sure the tragic events at Tomah are never repeated.”“As we’ve learned from the case in Tomah, the public has a right to know the results of all these investigations,” Rep. Kind concluded. “This bill will ensure greater transparency and oversight into the office of inspector general. We owe it to our veterans to do everything we can to make sure they receive the care and treatment that they deserve.”The bipartisan Inspectors General Transparency Act of 2015 amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to require that, no later than three days after completion, all Office of inspector General (OIG) reports are published on the OIG website and submitted to the head of the establishment under investigation, the individual or entity requesting the investigation, the Senate Committees on Homeland Security and Government Affairs and Appropriations, the House Committees on Oversight and Government Reform and Appropriations, Congressional committees of jurisdiction, and Members of Congress upon request.The full text of the bill can be read here.Senators Ron Johnson (R-WI) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) introduced a similar provision to improve transparency and accountability of Inspector General reports which has been included in the Inspector General Empowerment Act of 2015 and this bipartisan Senate language is expected to move to the Senate floor soon.
04.20.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced today that he is returning $92,587.23 to the U.S. Treasury to help pay down the deficit. Rep. Kind has donated a portion of his congressional budget every year since first taking office, for a total of $1.6 million returned to taxpayers.“On the heels of tax day, it’s important to remember that the only thing people like less than paying taxes is wasteful spending,” said Rep. Kind.“That’s why, every year, I find savings in my office budget and have given back more than $1.6million to the taxpayers. Wisconsinites know the value of a dollar and I’m working hard to change our spending priorities to get our budget back on track so our children and grandchildren aren’t left to deal with our debt.”In addition to his annual budget givebacks, Rep. Kind is a leading voice for fiscal responsibility in Congress. He’s working to reform spending in three key areas: rising health care costs, defense spending and outdated farm subsidy programs that benefit a handful of large agribusinesses. He has also consistently opposed the automatic cost-of-living increase for Members of Congress, and worked to reform the tax code to make sure that everyone pays their fair share.Overall, congressional office budgets have been cut by 16% since Fiscal Year 2010.
04.15.2015	La Crosse, WI – Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Jim McDermott (D-WA), and Doris Matsui (D-CA) today introduced the Crude-by-Rail Safety Act to help protect communities living along America’s extensive railway networks.“This bill takes a big step towards making our railways safer,” said Rep. Kind “The investment in our brave first responders will go a long way to giving them the training and resources they need to keep us safe. I’ve been calling for a comprehensive approach to protecting our cities and towns from hazardous material rail accidents, and I’m pleased that we’ve been able to move this bill forward.”Explosive growth in crude-by-rail transport has led to increased rail traffic and an unprecedented rise in rail accidents—sometimes with fatal results. This issue has affected communities and cemented the need to increase safety standards and accountability. Four derailments in the US and Canada in under a month earlier this year underscored the urgency of action to curb the risks of transporting volatile crude oil.The Crude-by-Rail Safety Act would establish new, commonsense federal safety standards for rail cars transporting oil across the country. This legislation:Authorizes funding for first responder training, equipment and emergency preparedness and authorizes funding for increased rail inspectionsEstablishes a maximum volatility standard for crude oil transported by rail and establishes the strongest tank car standards to-date while increasing fines for violating volatility and hazmat transport standardsProhibits use of unsafe DOT-111 tank cars, including the removal of 37,700 unsafe cars off the rail networkRequires comprehensive oil spill response planning and studiesRequires disclosure of train movements through communities and emergency response plansRequires railroads to implement a confidential close-call reporting systemsA similar version of this legislation was filed in the Senate by Senators Cantwell, Baldwin and Feinstein in March 2015.
04.13.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and his wife, Tawni Kind, yesterday announced the winners and thanked all the participants at the 2015 Third Congressional District Art Contest reception.“There is so much artistic talent right here in western and central Wisconsin,” said Mrs. Kind. “Every year, Ron and I consider it a privilege to visit with and recognize these gifted young artists.”“Arts education plays an important role in the development of well-rounded young adults,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m glad to highlight the great work being done here at home and we should all encourage our children and students to explore their artistic talents.”The winners are:1st PlaceEmily Sedgwick, La Farge High School“Road Trip to Madison”2nd PlaceSofia Herling, La Crosse Central High School“Lily”3rd PlaceAutumn Wooden, La Crosse Logan High School“Harnessing my Current Self”4th PlaceJade Hampe, La Crosse Logan High School“Optical Illusion Portrait”Honorable MentionsMoira Enders, Stevens Point Area Senior High“A Quiet Moment”Thomas Negaard, Stevens Point Area Senior High“A Life Unfinished”Sara Harris, La Farge High School“Bridges Jamboree”Olivia Marron, La Farge High School“The 3 Gentle Giants”Makayla Teague, La Farge High School“Oshie”Josh Butler, Mondovi High School“The Orchard Bird”Kody Schulte, Mondovi High School“Crystal Grove”Emily Roby, Mondovi High School“Capturing a Dream"Jennifer McNelly, La Farge High School“My Life: Torn to Pieces”Olivia Herken, La Farge High School“Tears to Water”The first place entry, “Road trip to Madison” by Emily Sedgwick, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second-place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while the third and fourth-place works will be hung in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices respectively.The contest recognizes the artistic talent of our region’s high school art students, bringing together young artists from across western and central Wisconsin.La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and his wife, Tawni Kind, yesterday announced the winners and thanked all the participants at the 2015 Third Congressional District Art Contest reception. “There is so much artistic talent right here in western and central Wisconsin,” said Mrs. Kind. “Every year, Ron and I consider it a privilege to visit with and recognize these gifted young artists.” “Arts education plays an important role in the development of well-rounded young adults,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m glad to highlight the great work being done here at home and we should all encourage our children and students to explore their artistic talents.” The winners are: 1st PlaceEmily Sedgwick, La Farge High School“Road Trip to Madison” 2nd PlaceSofia Herling, La Crosse Central High School“Lily” 3rd PlaceAutumn Wooden, La Crosse Logan High School“Harnessing my Current Self” 4th PlaceJade Hampe, La Crosse Logan High School“Optical Illusion Portrait” Honorable MentionsMoira Enders, Stevens Point Area Senior High“A Quiet Moment” Thomas Negaard, Stevens Point Area Senior High“A Life Unfinished” Sara Harris, La Farge High School“Bridges Jamboree” Olivia Marron, La Farge High School“The 3 Gentle Giants” Makayla Teague, La Farge High School“Oshie” Josh Butler, Mondovi High School“The Orchard Bird” Kody Schulte, Mondovi High School“Crystal Grove” Emily Roby, Mondovi High School“Capturing a Dream” Jennifer McNelly, La Farge High School“My Life: Torn to Pieces” Olivia Herken, La Farge High School“Tears to Water” The first place entry, “Road trip to Madison” by Emily Sedgwick, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second-place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while the third and fourth-place works will be hung in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices respectively. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of our region’s high school art students, bringing together young artists from across western and central Wisconsin.
04.09.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today commending the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) announcement of a $10 million investment in strengthening agricultural projects to improve water quality in the Mississippi River Basin:“This is good news for Wisconsin and the entire region” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Investing in water quality, agriculture and supporting conservation is critically important to our way of life. These projects will benefit our economy and our ecology for years to come.”This week, as part of its Mississippi River Basin Healthy Watersheds Initiative, the USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service announced it would be investing $10 million this year in 27 new high-priority watersheds and 13 existing projects that will help improve water quality and strengthen agricultural operations. These projects use funds from several Farm Bill conservation programs to help farmers adopt conservation systems to improve water quality and habitat to restore wetlands.One of the watersheds to receive new funding is the Rush River in Pierce County. Partners working with this project include the Pierce County Land Conservation Department, the University of Wisconsin Extension, and the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
04.08.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and his wife, Tawni Kind, will announce the winners and recognize all student participants at an open house for the 19th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest on Sunday, April 12 from 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. at the UW-La Crosse Center for the Arts.The contest recognizes the artistic talent of the region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from western and central Wisconsin. This year’s competition had 47 entries from schools across the Third Congressional District.An open house, held Sunday, April 12 from 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse Center for the Arts, will feature all submitted artwork as well as a ceremony honoring the student participants. The award ceremony will be held at 1:30p.m., when Rep. and Mrs. Kind will announce the winning entries. First, second, third, fourth and honorable mention awards will be given.The first place entry will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. The competition winner will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring these student artists. The second place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and fourth place choices will hang in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices.Residents who cannot attend the reception are invited to see the exhibit before April 12th. The University Gallery at the Center for the Arts is open from 12-8:00 pm Wednesday and Thursday, and 12-5:00 pm on Friday and Saturday.WHAT: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Mrs. Tawni Kind Announce 2015 Congressional Art Competition winners; all works on displayWHERE: University of Wisconsin-La Crosse Center for the Arts -- 333 16th St. N, La Crosse, WI 54601WHEN: Sunday, April 12, 1:00-3:00p.m., ceremony beginning at 1:30 p.m. - 30 -
04.02.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement announcing his support of the Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act:“One of the many important lessons learned from Monday’s field hearing in Tomah is that veterans must have better access to treatments other than drugs for pain management,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act is vital to improve care for our veterans and that’s why I will be cosponsoring it. We owe it to our veterans to provide them the best health care possible and that includes timely access to the many alternative treatments beyond opioid therapy.”The Chiropractic Care Available to All Veterans Act requires chiropractic care and services at all VA medical centers by the end of 2016 and designates chiropractic care as a standard benefit for VA health care.This legislation is supported by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the American Legion, Vietnam Veterans of America, National Chiropractic Leadership Conference, and the American Chiropractic Association.As Interim Under Secretary for Health Dr. Carolyn Clancy testified at the Tomah field hearing, “Chronic pain management is challenging for Veterans and clinicians -- VA continues to focus on identifying Veteran-centric approaches that can be tailored to individual needs that may also include physician therapy, acupuncture, chiropractic treatments, and other modalities in addition to medications.”Last month, Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which would establish a pain management oversight board within each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) comprised of health care professionals and clinical patients and/or family members of a clinical patient. A copy of the text of the Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act can be read here.
03.25.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today regarding the bipartisan Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which he introduced along with Reps. Reid Ribble (R-WI) and Lee Zeldin (R-NY):“Giving veteran patients and their families a real role in VA oversight is an important way we can ensure that the lessons learned from the problems at Tomah help inform the VA to provide better care for veterans nationwide,”said Rep. Kind. “This bill will help prevent the tragic events at Tomah from happening again. We owe a debt to our veterans that can never truly be repaid. What we can do is honor their sacrifice by working to provide veterans with the best care possible.”Today Rep. Kind introduced the bipartisan Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act, which would establish a pain management board within each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) comprised of health care professionals and clinical patients and/or family members of a clinical patient. The pain management boards would:· Serve as a resource for the region’s facilities, patients, and family members· Provide best practices recommendations for pain management to the VA facilities within its region, including patient, family member and medical perspectives· Provide an annual report to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs about pain management practices within its region: what is working and what is not working· Report to Congress, so that there is greater accountability on pain management practicesThe bill is based on a recommendation by the VA Office of Inspector General, which proposes collaborative boards as a way to improve pain management practices at VA hospitals.The Disabled American Veterans (DAV) has endorsed this legislation.A copy of the text of the Veterans Pain Management Improvement Act can be read here.
03.24.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today sent Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker a letter calling on him to put partisan politics aside and accept federal Medicaid expansion for Wisconsin:“Wisconsin taxpayers are paying for expanded Medicaid in states throughout the nation, but Governor Walker is preventing those taxes from coming back to benefit us here,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “At a time when our state faces a $2 billion budget shortfall and Governor Walker is threatening to cut $300 million from higher education, it is totally irresponsible to refuse $345 million in federal funds to provide quality health care for tens of thousands of uninsured Wisconsinites.I urge Governor Walker to follow the lead of other Republican Governors around the country and put people before politics, accept Medicaid expansion and ensure affordable coverage for thousands of children and families.”A recent Public Policy Polling survey indicates Wisconsinites support expanding Medicaid by thirty percent. Furthermore, Republican Governors in Arizona, Arkansas, Iowa, Nevada and New Mexico have done the right thing and taken federal Medicaid expansion support.You can read Rep. Kind’s letter to Governor Walker in its entirety here.
03.23.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement recognizing the fifth anniversary of the passage of the Affordable Care Act:“Five years in, we continue to see the positive impacts the ACA is having on America’s health system” said Rep. Ron Kind. “With over 16 million uninsured Americans gaining health insurance, the latest reduction in the cost projection, and the roughly 1 trillion dollars saved on Medicare spending, we’re making great strides towards lowering the cost of health care in this country.It’s also important that we continue moving towards a more integrated, coordinated health care delivery system like the models in Wisconsin that produce some of the best care in the world. Through further payment reform, we can achieve better care for a better price so we’re paying for the value of care given instead of just the volume of services provided. We’ve still got a long way to go, but today, we should recognize the real benefits the Affordable Care Act is having on the lives of millions of Americans.”Earlier this month, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office announced that the projected costs of the Affordable Care Act will be $142 billion (11 percent) lower than they last projected in January.
03.21.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today following the change in leadership at Tomah VA:“I’m encouraged to see the Department of Veterans Affairs addressing the situation at Tomah with the seriousness it requires,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I look forward to working with Mr. Rohrer as we all continue to get to the bottom of what’s happened at Tomah and take the steps necessary to ensure our veterans receive the quality care they deserve moving forward. We owe a debt to our veterans that can never truly be repaid and we all must work together to provide them the best health care possible.”Today it was announced that Mario DeSanctis, Director at the Tomah VA Medical Center has been reassigned and that Mr. John Rohrer, currently of the Madison VA Medical Center, will assume leadership at Tomah.
03.19.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today regarding his introduction of the bipartisan Physical ActivitiesRecommendations for Americans Actas part of his healthy living plan:“Physical fitness is a pressing concern for our country, and to get the best results, it’s important we do what we can to instill healthy habits and routines early in life,”said Rep. Kind. “Promoting good health, especially to children, is something we all can do to help combat obesity and keep America competitive on the global stage because it's hard to develop a healthy mind without a healthy body.”According to the Institute of Medicine, 1 out of 3 children are overweight or obese. Worse, 2 out of 3 adults are overweight or obese. Numerous studies have shown that individuals who are overweight or obese are at higher risks of developing chronic diseases such as diabetes or heart disease. The medical costs associated with treating these oftentimes preventable obesity related diseases are estimated to increase to $66 billion per year in the United States.The Physical ActivitiesRecommendations for Americans Act requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to publish a report every 10 years that contains physical activity information and recommendations for the general public. The report would then be promoted by federal agencies to support good health. Recommendations will be based on current scientific and medical knowledge and should include guidelines for specific groups, including children. The bill is supported by the Sports & Fitness Industry Association and the American College of Sports Medicine.Earlier this week, Rep. Kind unveiled his Healthy Living Plan to make the Healthy Choice the Easy Choice for life. Read the plan in its entirety here.
03.18.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) issued a floor statement for the Congressional Record today honoring the southwest Wisconsin emergency first responders who went into Illinois to help address the recent train derailment near Galena, IL.“The swift action taken to safely deal with the recent derailment near Galena, IL is yet another example of why we owe our emergency responders so much,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “These brave citizens from southwest Wisconsin put themselves in harm’s way to defend families and communities from a potentially catastrophic accident. This derailment is another unfortunate reminder of why we need to do everything we can to prepare our local first responders for dealing with hazardous material derailments. That’s why I’ve introduced the RESPONSE Act to tackle this critical issue.”Last month, Rep. Kind and colleagues introduced The RESPONSE Act that creates a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council to bring together agencies, emergency responders, technical experts, and the private sector to review training, best practices, resources and unmet needs related to railroad incidents. With the upcoming expansion of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation (BNSF) Railway through Wisconsin, crude oil transportation has become an increasingly serious safety concern in many communities that trains pass through.The subcommittee would provide recommendations to Congress within one year on emergency responder training and resource allocation, addressing quality of training, funding levels, emergency response plans, and improving the flow of information to local first responders. It would also help develop a train incident database.Many large cities, states and the federal government have the training and resources to respond to a hazmat incident on our railways, but many local communities’ police, fire and medical personnel are the first to arrive on the scene to secure the area and keep neighborhoods safe.Enclosed below is Rep. Kind’s statement for the Congressional Record:Floor Statement from Congressman KindRecognizing Galena Train Derailment First RespondersMarch 18, 2015Mr. Speaker, today I rise to honor the first responders who helped to control and contain the fire caused by the recent train derailment in Galena, IL on March 5, 2015. These brave citizens responded to the derailment quickly and performed their duties flawlessly. Thanks to their bravery and hard work, the fire was ultimately contained, and disaster was averted. The state of Wisconsin thanks them for their courage and service.On March 5, 2015, a Burlington Northern Santa Fe train derailed in Galena, Illinois, and started a fire in a rural area near the city. Firefighters from Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin responded to help control and contain the fire. Wisconsin fire departments from Cuba City, Darlington, Dickeyville, Hazel Green, Jamestown, Lancaster, and Platteville participated in the incident response. After arriving on the scene, first responders assessed the situation and enacted procedures to control the derailment. Their response was successful, the incident was contained, and crisis was averted.Every day, firefighters and other first responders go to work prepared to confront our most dangerous situations. These brave men and women are on the front lines, protecting our communities from disaster. Today, I recognize these courageous first responders and thank them for their service.
03.17.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), along with Representative Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Social Security and Marriage Equality (SAME) Act of 2015 to ensure all same-sex spouses receive equal treatment under the Social Security Act when applying for Social Security benefits, regardless of where they live. Eligibility for spousal benefits provided under the Social Security Act is determined by a place of residence standard. This standard has resulted in applications for Social Security benefits for legally married same-sex spouses living in states that do not recognize same-sex marriagenot being approved. The SAME Act provides a roadmap to ensure all legally married couples have equal access to the benefits they have earned.“All legally married same-sex couples deserve equal treatment under the law, regardless of their zip code,” said Senator Patty Murray.“Where you live should not determine whether your family is economically secure following the death of a spouse, and it shouldn't prevent your family from receiving the benefits you have earned. The SAME Act would help ensure equality under federal law does not end at state lines.”"For the last six months, all Wisconsinites have fully enjoyed the benefit of marriage equality. Unfortunately legally married same-sex couples in Wisconsin face uncertainty if moving to a state where their marriage is not recognized,” said Senator Tammy Baldwin. “The SAME Act will provide fairness and equality for legally married same-sex couples under the Social Security Act, regardless of where they live. While I am hopeful the Supreme Court will soon remove the necessity of such measures, I am proud to join this effort to build on our nation’s founding belief that all Americans are created free and equal under the law.”“No matter where in America a married couple decides to live, they should take comfort in knowing that their union will be treated equally under the law,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Social Security spousal benefits offer economic security and peace of mind. Every married couple who contributes to the social security system should enjoy the same benefits. This is about basic fairness and I’m proud to help lead this bipartisan effort to ensure equality for every American citizen.”In its 2013 decision in United States v. Windsor, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act and found that the federal government may not, through its laws, create a subset of unequal marriages. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision, married same-sex couples who live in states that recognize their marriage were eligible for the same protections, responsibilities, and access to federal programs afforded all other married couples, including taxes, immigration, and bankruptcy. However, inequality remains for legally married couples living in states that do not recognize their marriage, including under the Social Security Act’s place of residence standards. There are 55 lawsuits pending in Federal Court, with six of these involving the marriage laws of Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio, and Tennessee, accepted for review by the U.S. Supreme Court. Oral arguments of theses appeals is set for April 28, 2015.The SAME Act’s Senate cosponsors include: Patty Murray (D-WA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Tom Udall (D-NM).Cosponsors in the House of Representatives include: Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Susan Davis (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Sam Farr (D-CA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Jared Polis (D-CO), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mike Honda (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Judy Chu (D-CA), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), John Delaney (D-MD), Alan Grayson (D-FL), John Garamendi (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX) and Jim McGovern (D-MA). The bill has received support from advocates and organizations, including the Human Rights Campaign, Social Security Works, the National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund, Services and Advocacy for GLBT Elders (SAGE), National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, OWL-The Voice of Women 40+, Pride Foundation, and Greater Seattle Business Association.“All legally married same-sex couples deserve to be treated fairly and equally when accessing their federal benefits, no matter what state they happen to live in,” said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director for the Human Rights Campaign. “Social Security benefits are critical for retirement security and same-sex couples in non-marriage equality states are unfairly denied benefits they have earned through their payroll contributions. We are thankful to Senator Patty Murray, Senator Tammy Baldwin and Representative Ron Kind for their strong, passionate, and consistent leadership working to end this injustice.”"It is heartening to see a growing number of states - 37 and counting - are treating same-sex couples the same as all other couples under the law. But couples living in states that haven't yet enacted marriage equality should not be denied their earned Social Security benefits. Senator Patty Murray, Senator Tammy Baldwin, and Representative Ron Kind’s SAME act will ensure that all couples are treated the equally under our nation's Social Security system," said Eric Kingson, Co-chair of the Strengthen Social Security Coalition, Social Security Works"We applaud Senator Patty Murray, Senator Tammy Baldwin, and Representative Ron Kind for championing equality, decency, and fairness by sponsoring the Social Security and Marriage Equality ("SAME") Act of 2015. This important legislation would ensure that all married couples, whomever they love and wherever they live, are treated equally and fairly by Social Security. Through hard work and contributions, these couples have earned their Social Security benefits. Prejudice should not keep them from receiving these vital earned benefits,"said Nancy Altman, founding co-director of Social Security Works."We thank Senator Murray, Senator Baldwin and Representative Kind for their leadership in reintroducing the Social Security and Marriage Equality (SAME) Act. If enacted, this bill could mean the difference between an LGBT person being able to make ends meet and being forced to live under extreme financial hardship. Equality should not stop at state lines and this legislation will go a long way towards ensuring that same-sex couples have access to the Social Security benefits they have earned." said Rea Carey, Executive Director, National LGBTQ Task Force Action Fund."SAGE congratulates Senators Murray, Senator Baldwin, and Representative Kind on introducing this important legislation,”said Michael Adams, Executive Director, Services and Advocacy for GLBT Elders (SAGE). “After facing a lifetime of discrimination and lower earnings, LGBT older adults have higher poverty rates than other elders.” “The least we can do is ensure that LGBT older adults are treated like first class citizens when it comes to receiving the Social Security benefits they have earned."“…we support enactment of the SAME Act because the civil rights of same sex couples have been denied far too long. Justice delayed for LGBT families who live in states that do not recognize same sex marriage is justice denied. It is time to remove one of the key remaining barriers to marriage equality by making all couples and their children fully eligible to receive retirement, disability, survivor and spousal Social Security benefits regardless of where they live and who they love,” said Max Richtman President and CEO, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare.“Since its founding 35 years ago, OWL has fought to defend and strengthen Social Security, as it is vitally important to women’s economic security. Without Social Security’s life-long, inflation-adjusted benefits, half of all American older women would live in poverty, and many more would live on the margins of poverty. OWL endorses the SAME Act because we believe that all people deserve retirement security, and equal treatment for same-sex spouses under the Social Security Act when applying for Social Security benefits, regardless of where they live, can help ensure all Americans achieve it,” OWL-The Voice of Women 40+“We applaud Senator Murray for reintroducing the Social Security and Marriage Equality (SAME) Act in 2015 and for her leadership on this issue of vital importance to the LGBT community,” said Kris Hermanns, Executive Director of Pride Foundation. “While we have made significant strides toward LGBT equality in the past year, far too many loving and committed married couples are not treated equally under the Social Security Act. This legislation would provide critical support to LGBT couples and their families, regardless of where they live— bringing profound financial and emotional security to people across the country.”“The Greater Seattle Business Association (GSBA), our region’s lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) and allied chamber of commerce, expresses its support of the Social Security and Marriage Equality (SAME) Act. Equality is equality. Everyone pays into Social Security, and we should all receive the benefits for which we have contributed for our entire lives. Marriage is about love and taking care of each other, including providing protection for your spouse through social security – a right that must be equally applied and not based on the state in which you reside. Equality under federal law should not end at state lines. GSBA has been proud to provide volunteer witnesses for many out-of-state couples looking to get married in Washington State over the last few years. Thankfully, many of their marriages have since been recognized in their home states, but there are plenty who still are refused equal treatment under the law. Many departments of the federal government recognize all marriages based on the state of celebration, rather than state of residency, and this policy should be extended to the Social Security Administration,” Louise Chernin, President & CEO, Greater Seattle Business AssociationThe SAME Act would amend title II of the Social Security Act to:• Confer spousal benefits to any individual legally married in United States.• Eliminate the requirement that the spouse reside in a state that recognizes same-sex marriage to be eligible for Social Security benefits.• Ensure spouses legally married outside the United States are eligible for Social Security benefits.Read the legislative text of the bill here.
03.16.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced a comprehensive plan today to give our communities, schools, families and individuals more resources to help lead healthier lives.“If we can make the healthy choice the easy choice, then we can make a lasting positive impact on the quality of life for Americans young and old,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Lowering barriers to the education, tools and resources that prevent and treat obesity; easier access to an affordable, nutritious balanced diet, and a renewed focus on the value of physical activity are all vital to developing a healthy lifestyle. That’s why I’ve developed my plan to make it easier for people to make the healthy choice that will lead to healthier people, families and communities.”Rep. Kind’s plan supports healthy choices for children, families and seniors alike:Healthy Kids:Over the last 30 years, U.S. childhood obesity rates have tripled and today, one-third of American school-age children and adolescents are overweight or obese. The Kind plan takes a three-pronged approach to addressing the childhood obesity epidemic:1. Help schools promote physical activity, education, fitness, and nutrition for all students.2. Give kids better access to outdoor activities by supporting local, state and federal initiatives.3. Promote the development of quality and safe youth sports opportunities by supporting non-profits, research, and youth-serving organizations.Healthy Families: Developing a healthy mind requires a healthy body. That’s why supporting good family health can make sure America remains competitive on the international level. Supporting legislation that increases physical activity among families will reduce the burden that obesity, and the resulting chronic illnesses, places on our national healthcare spending. We need to do more to help middle class American families afford the opportunities and resources they need to maintain healthy minds and bodies.Healthy Seniors:According to a 2010, Congressional Budget Office report, obesity rates among Americans has more than doubled from 1987 to 2007. This troubling trend has impacted seniors as much as the rest of the population. That’s why the federal government should do more to expand Medicare’s coverage of the growing number of approved obesity treatment and prevention resources.To read the full healthy living plan, click here
03.11.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released lower cost estimates for the Affordable Care Act:“This is good news for all Americans” said Rep. Ron Kind. “At a time when 10,000 baby boomers are retiring and joining Medicare every day, the slowdown in rising health care premiums means things continue to move in the right direction. On the heels of last year’s CBO cost revision estimating $1 trillion in savings over the next 10 years, this news is yet another example of the Affordable Care Act working to slow down the rising cost of health care in this country.”On Monday, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office announced that the projected costs of the Affordable Care Act will be $142 billion (11 percent) lower than they last projected in January.
03.10.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement regarding the release of findings from phase one of the VA investigation into opioid prescription practices at the Tomah VA medical center:“This is another step in the right direction, but the VA has a long way to go” said Rep. Ron Kind. “As I’ve said before, we must remain vigilant to ensure our veterans receive the quality health care they deserve. Although these findings are important, the VA must take decisive action and implement new procedures based on these and subsequent findings.”Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs released key findings and recommendations of its initial clinical review into opioid prescription practices at the Tomah VA Medical Center.The Department of Veterans Affairs memorandum can be read in full here.Earlier today in Tomah, Rep. Kind met with Veterans Affairs Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson regarding the ongoing investigations into practices at the Tomah VA medical center.
03.10.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement following his meeting with Veterans Affairs Deputy Secretary Sloan Gibson today:“I’m glad that Deputy Secretary Gibson made the trip to Tomah today to hear first-hand from local veterans and advocates,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “It is vital that we get to the bottom of what’s happened at Tomah so we can ensure our veterans receive the quality care they need. I look forward to the upcoming field hearing and the completion of the ongoing investigations. Once we’ve identified the problems, we must take concrete steps to ensure our veterans receive timely access to the care they deserve.Last month, Rep. Kind joined a bipartisan group of Wisconsin colleagues in requesting a field hearing at Tomah VA that will be held on March 30th. The letter asked the Committee to investigate the VA’s overall prescription practices, and requested that the hearing include the undersigned members. It went on to state that “it is in Congress’ best interest to learn all we can about what went wrong at Tomah and prevent this situation from happening at other facilities. One veteran dying of an overdose is too many.”A copy of the letter can be read here.Rep. Kind has spoken to VA Secretary Robert McDonald and VA Interim Under Secretary for Health Dr. Carolyn Clancy about the ongoing investigations, and hasmet personally with whistleblowers, veterans and family members who have first-hand experience at the Tomah VA. Rep. Kind has alsoasked the VA Medical Centers in Madison, Milwaukee and Minneapolis to explain what steps they are taking to implement improvements in pain management.
03.09.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement commending the Department of Veterans Affairs for streamlining access to clinical data for VA providers:“This is an important step toward safeguarding veterans,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Increasing provider access to the latest clinical data and best treatment practices will hopefully result in fewer instances of opioid abuse and adverse reactions to medication. As we’ve seen in Tomah, we must remain vigilant so that our veterans have access to the quality care they deserve. I’m encouraged that the VA is taking action on this critical issue.”Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced it would be accelerating deployment of their nationwide opioid therapy tool which helps providers stay current on the latest pain treatment data.The Department of Veterans Affairs release can be read in full here.
03.06.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement following passage of the so-called “Right to Work” legislation in the Wisconsin State Assembly today:“I’m disappointed that this bill has been passed by the State Legislature. It may be known as “Right to Work” but this legislation really only offers a Right to Earn Less. At a time when we need to focus on supporting Wisconsin’s economic recovery, this bill is nothing more than a partisan attack on Wisconsin’s working families,’ said Rep. Kind. “Not only will it lead to lower wages for Wisconsin workers, but it could have a broad negative impact on our overall economy. That’s why earlier this year, I urged Governor Walker to veto any “Right to Work” legislation he was presented with.”On January 26th, Rep. Kind sent a letter to Gov. Walker urging him to veto any “Right to Work” legislation he received. In the letter, Rep. Kind cited an Economic Policy Institute report which found that “RTW laws lower wages for union and non-union workers by an average of $1,500 a year and decrease the likelihood employees will get health insurance or pensions through their jobs. By lowering compensation, they have the indirect effect of undermining consumer spending, which threatens economic growth.”A copy of the letter can be found here.
02.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), and Dave Loebsack (D-IA) continued their effort to give more flexibility to students receiving Pell Grants by introducing the Access to Education and Training Act to allow Pell Grant recipients to take advantage of the grants year-round.“Nearly 9 million students depend on Pell Grants to attend and complete college, and many students are past the 18-22 age range so they have competing demands on their schedules,” said Congressman Ron Kind. “This commonsense legislation will restore access to year-round Pell Grants, providing flexibility to many non-traditional students such as those with families or full-time jobs so they can complete their courses and move forward with their careers.”“As the mother to three sons, I know firsthand how important a quality and affordable education is to building a middle class life,” said Congresswoman Cheri Bustos. “I’m proud to join with Representatives Loebsack and Kind to continue fighting for higher education affordability and accessibility. Our bill would give students more flexibility to get the training they need to join the workforce faster. This would be a win-win-win for our region’s students, our local educational institutions and our local economies.“As someone who would not have been able to attend college without the help of student aid, I was proud to author the original year-round Pell legislation that was signed into law in 2008,” said Congressman Dave Loebsack. “After visiting schools across Iowa, I have heard from countless students whose ability to afford college would be significantly improved by the availability of year-round Pell grants. I look forward to working with Representatives Bustos and Kind to reduce barriers to higher education institutions by restoring this important program. This bill would provide Iowa’s students with the necessary training and resources required to be successful in the 21st century global economy.”Under current law, a student who goes to school full-time during the fall and spring semesters would not be eligible to receive Pell Grant awards for summer courses. Many of those who would benefit most from the Access to Education and Training Act are non-traditional students who want to complete their courses faster so they can get back into the workforce.This legislation is a key component of Rep. Kind’s comprehensive College Affordability Action Plan to make college more affordable for families in Wisconsin and across the nation. To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here.Bustos, Loebsack and Kind, who together represent 18 community colleges across their three neighboring states, introduced this bill in response to the continued demand for increased Pell Grant flexibility from local students and community colleges that offer year-round programs.
02.24.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Tim Walz (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), and Cedric Richmond (D-LA) introduced the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation (RESPONSE) Act today, to help first responders in local communities in the event of a train derailment or fuel spill. A companion bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND).“As more and more oil is being shipped across Wisconsin, the risk of derailments and spills in our local communities continues to grow,” said Rep. Kind. “We rely on our local first responders to do so much to protect our communities, and this bill will give them needed tools and resources so they can react quickly and effectively in case of a rail emergency. This is an important step forward, but more work needs to be done on issues including better track inspections, upgraded train tracks, and more transparency so the public knows what’s being transported on our rails.”The RESPONSE Act creates a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council to bring together agencies, emergency responders, technical experts, and the private sector to review training, best practices, resources and unmet needs related to railroad incidents. With the upcoming expansion of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation (BNSF) Railway through Wisconsin, crude oil transportation has become an increasingly serious safety concern in many communities that trains pass through.The subcommittee would provide recommendations to Congress within one year on emergency responder training and resource allocation, addressing quality of training, funding levels, emergency response plans, and improving the flow of information to local first responders. It would also help develop a train incident database.Many large cities, states and the federal government have the training and resources to respond to a hazmat incident on our railways, but many local communities’ police, fire and medical personnel are the first to arrive on the scene to secure the area and keep neighborhoods safe.
02.13.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) sent a letter today to the Executive Chairman at BNSF Railway expressing his serious concern with the handling of a fatal incident that occurred in Pepin County, WI last week. “Communication problems between the railroad and local first responders put lives at risk.We need to determine what miscommunication occurred and what can be done to prevent it from happening again,” said Rep. Kind. “With rail traffic skyrocketing in Wisconsin, there needs to be a strong relationship between the railroad and our local police and first responders so that future incidents are handled safely and promptly.”On February 5, a man’s body was found near BNSF tracks in a remote area near Pepin, WI. BNSF railroad police had been contacted and were asked to temporarily halt rail traffic, but local first responders arriving at the scene were forced to duck out of the way of a moving train on their way to the victim.Rep. Kind is calling on BNSF to explain why it failed to shut down the tracks at the site of the incident, even after dispatchers had been contacted. He is also asking BNSF to describe the steps it is taking to ensure that this type of miscommunication does not happen again in the future, and what it plans to do to build better lines of communication and cooperation with local first responders.A copy of the letter can be read here.
02.12.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Promoting Education for Lifetime Learning (PELL) Grant Funding Act, which directs any profit the government makes from federal student loan programs into federal Pell Grants to ensure that the grants remain sustainable for future students.“Student loan debt is at a crisis level – here in Wisconsin, graduates enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt on average, said Rep. Kind. “The government shouldn’t be making a profit from federal student loan payments, it should be reinvesting that money to make higher education more affordable for those who need financial help. Steering that money into federal Pell Grant programs helps more families afford college, which is one of the smartest long-term economic investments we can make.”The federal government is expected to make $127 billion in profit from the federal student loan program over the next ten years. The PELL Grant Funding Act will stop the federal government from making money off of students who are paying off their debt.The PELL Grant Funding Act is part of Rep. Kind’s recently introduced College Affordability Action Plan to make college more affordable for families in Wisconsin and across the nation. To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here.“As the representative of 14 colleges and universities across western and central Wisconsin, helping families afford higher education is one of my top priorities,” Rep. Kind concluded. “As Governor Walker moves to defund the UW System, it’s more important than ever to take concrete steps now to make higher education more accessible and affordable for future generations.” -30-
02.12.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) commended the President for quickly signing into law the recently passed Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (Clay Hunt SAV) Act. The law will increase access to mental health care for veterans and ensure greater oversight of care.“Veteran suicide is a devastating problem that needs to be confronted directly. This new law is an important step toward improving mental health care for our veterans, but we must never stop seeking more ways to ensure our veterans get the support they need,” said Rep. Kind. “Mental health care and services for veterans are crucial. It’s essential that we identify what is and what is not working and then take concrete steps to ensure all veterans have timely access to the care they need and deserve.”Specifically, the Clay Hunt SAV Act requires an annual, independent evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices at the Department of Defense and the VA in order to find out what is working and what isn’t. The legislation is named for Marine Corporal Clay Hunt, who served in the Iraq and Afghanistan Wars and advocated for suicide prevention. In 2011, he tragically took his own life.Rep. Kind cosponsored the legislation and voted in favor of it last month when it was passed by the House of Representatives. The bill was signed into law today by the President.
02.10.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after Governor Scott Walker’s Department of Natural Resources issued permits to BNSF Railway for their planned rail expansion in the La Crosse River Marsh without the guidance of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS):“It’s irresponsible to rush forward like this when so much is at stake. The amount of oil being shipped through Wisconsin is skyrocketing, along with the risk of derailments and spills that could endanger our natural resources and local neighborhoods. Considering the train derailment outside of Dubuque, Iowa last week that resulted in an unknown amount of ethanol spilling into the Mississippi River, it is clear that the need for proper environmental review of this planned track expansion is critical to protecting our wetlands and communities.“We don’t know how this expansion will affect wildlife, flood drainage, and navigation in the La Crosse River Marsh and Mississippi River wetlands. When making a decision that’s this important, it’s just Wisconsin common sense that you take your time and consult with experts to learn all the facts.“Gov. Walker and his administration seem determined to push this through. But I will continue to fight for rail safety by enhancing track inspections, upgrading train tracks, and increasing transparency so the public knows what’s being transported on our rails.” BACKGROUNDLast month, Rep. Kind and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) sent letters to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers requesting that an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) be conducted ahead of the BNSF Railway’s planned track expansion through the City of La Crosse and along the La Crosse River Marsh. In both letters, they described the high quality of life and economic boost that the La Crosse River Marsh and the Mississippi River provide, and urged that all potential environmental impacts of the proposed rail expansion be fully understood before a decision was made.
02.05.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced a comprehensive plan today to make college more affordable for middle-class families in Wisconsin and across the nation.“Investing in higher education and helping more students afford college is one of the smartest decisions we can make as a nation. Every dollar we invest today will pay dividends down the road and help ensure that Wisconsin can compete in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Kind. “As Governor Walker moves to defund the UW System, we need to take concrete steps now to make sure our colleges, students and their families have the support they need.”Rep. Kind’s comprehensive strategy to help make college more affordable consists of five key principles:Government Shouldn’t Profit from Student Loans: Rep. Kind’s PELL Grant Funding Act, to be introduced later this month, directs any profit the government makes from federal student loan programs into federal Pell Grant programs, making sure that Pell Grants remain sustainable and affordable for future students.We Should Allow Student Loans to Be Refinanced Like Mortgages: Student borrowers saddled with decades of high interest loans and high monthly payments should be allowed to refinance their loans if interest rates drop.We Must Invest in Tax Incentives to Address College Affordability: The American Opportunity Tax Credit, Tuition Deduction, Student Loan Interest Deduction, and improvement of college savings plans can all help students pay for school.Loan Payments Should Match Earnings: Many borrowers struggle to make payments in the years after graduation – we need a streamlined and dynamic repayment system that automatically adjusts to a borrower’s ability to pay.Provide Pell Grants Year-Round: Nearly 9 million students, of all ages, depend on Pell Grants. Restoring access to year-round Pell Grants would help students graduate early or on time by providing the flexibility they need.To read the full College Affordability Action Plan, click here.BackgroundGov. Walker’s budget proposal moves to cut $300 million from the UW system over the next two years, putting UW students at a competitive disadvantage and making it harder for UW schools to recruit and retain faculty.College grads in Wisconsin enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt on average. Student loan debt has surpassed $1 trillion nationally, which is higher than credit card debt and second only to homeowner mortgage debt.
02.04.2015	La Crosse, WI – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) sent the contact information of individuals with personal experience at the Tomah VA Medical Center to VA Interim Under Secretary for Health, Dr.Carolyn Clancy, urging the VA to gather as much information as possible as it conducts its investigations into allegations of over-medication and retaliatory behavior at the Tomah facility.“I have met personally with whistleblowers, veterans and family members who have first-hand experience at the Tomah VA, and have received detailed, confidential information over the last few weeks from many more,” said Rep. Kind. “By contacting the individuals who have given their permission and hearing their accounts directly, the VA should be able to better determine what the problem is and resolve it immediately.”For the past several weeks Rep. Kind’s office has been in contact with many individuals and gathered their information. The details of their stories have been kept confidential, but the individuals whose names were sent to the VA have all agreed to share their personal stories with the VA directly.“I want to make sure that the VA has as much information as possible as they investigate the Tomah VA, so they can fully comprehend the scope of the situation,” Rep. Kind continued. “The allegations that have been made are extremely serious and the voices of those with direct knowledge need to be heard. This needs to get resolved immediately because every veteran deserves the best care possible.”Rep. Kind spoke with Interim Under Secretary Clancy (who is leading the investigation) earlier today for an update on next steps forward, and to inform her he will be sending these contacts.Earlier this week, Rep. Kind asked the VA Medical Centers in Madison, Milwaukee and Minneapolis what steps they are taking to implement improvements in pain management.
02.03.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement regarding Gov. Scott Walker’s budget proposal for Wisconsin:“Budgets are all about priorities, and with this proposed budget Gov. Walker has made his priorities clear: he’s more concerned with pleasing his political base and running for higher office than serving working families in Wisconsin.“Cutting $300 million from the University of Wisconsin System will put UW students at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy and make it harder for UW schools to recruit and retain faculty. As we continue working to address the growing crisis of student loan debt, the last thing we should be doing is defunding the UW System.“And instead of making tough decisions to fund needed investments, Gov. Walker wants to borrow $1.3 billion to fund transportation projects over the next two years. He’s happy to put needed projects on the state credit card to protect his national ambitions.“Gov. Walker is pursuing a divisive agenda instead of looking for ways to work collaboratively to create jobs, and strengthen and grow Wisconsin’s middle class.”
02.02.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is asking the VA Medical Centers in Madison, Milwaukee and Minneapolis what steps they are taking to implement improvements in pain management. In a letter sent Monday, Rep. Kind references the allegations of over-prescribing opiates at the Tomah VA and shares his concerns about pain-management practices system-wide.“Across the nation, our VA health facilities need to examine the use of opioids and correct any shortfalls in pain-management practices that may exist. The VA in Tomah is a major concern, but I want to learn more about what’s being done to improve pain management in the other VA Medical Centers that serve Wisconsin veterans,” said Rep. Kind. “It is essential that we identify any problems and then take concrete steps to ensure all veterans have timely access to the care they deserve.”A system-wide study conducted by the VA Office of Inspector General and released in May 2014 described how many opioid patients have complex conditions which make them more likely to be given multiple medications that can interact dangerously with opioid medications. In the letter to the VA Medical Centers in Madison, Milwaukee and Minneapolis, Rep. Kind asks what policies are in place to ensure pain management is safe and effective, what is being done to ensure that patients with complex pain receive medication management and pharmacy reconciliation, and what progress has been made since the launch of the VA Opioid Safety Initiative.A copy of one of the letters can be read here.Last month, Rep. Kind and Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) sent a letter to the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs asking that a hearing be held to examine the pain-management practices of VA medical centers nationwide, making reference to the May 2014 system-wide study.
01.27.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) harshly criticized Governor Scott Walker’s proposal to cut $300 million from the University of Wisconsin System over two years. Once above 50%, the overall share of state support for the UW System is currently below 20%:“Once again, Gov. Walker is pursuing a divisive agenda instead of looking for ways to work collaboratively to create jobs and strengthen Wisconsin’s middle-class families. His plan to slash funding for the UW System will put our students at a competitive disadvantage in the global economy, and make it harder for our UW schools to recruit and retain faculty.“Our university system is a tremendous source of pride for Wisconsin, and a key economic engine for the entire state. Investments in higher education pay off down the road, so this short-sighted, politically motivated move by Gov. Walker will be harmful to Wisconsin for years to come.“Western and central Wisconsin is home to many UW schools and these cuts will have a dramatic impact on both students and faculty, who will be left wondering why the Governor put his political ambitions ahead of the needs of our state.”
01.26.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) offered a detailed case against harmful “Right to Work” legislation today, in a letter sent to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker. Rep. Kind has been urging the Governor to express concrete opposition to “Right to Work” laws and pledge to veto any proposed legislation.“Gov. Walker needs to clarify where he stands on ‘Right to Work’ instead of giving Wisconsinites more generalities,” said Rep. Kind. “Gov. Walker has called ‘Right to Work’ a ‘distraction,’ but in reality it’s a direct attack on Wisconsin’s working families. I urge the Governor to focus on creating jobs in Wisconsin instead of pursuing a divisive agenda that puts working families further behind.”In the letter to Gov. Walker, Rep. Kind cites an Economic Policy Institute report which found that “RTW laws lower wages for union and non-union workers by an average of $1,500 a year and decrease the likelihood employees will get health insurance or pensions through their jobs. By lowering compensation, they have the indirect effect of undermining consumer spending, which threatens economic growth. For every $1 million in wage cuts to workers, $850,000 less is spent in the economy, which translates into a loss of six jobs.”A copy of the letter can be found here.
01.22.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Tim Walz (D-MN) called on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to hold a hearing to examine the pain-management practices of VA medical centers nationwide. Allegations have been made that the Tomah VA has been over-prescribing opiates to veterans, and engaging in retaliatory behavior.“These allegations are extremely serious, and a hearing would represent an important next step toward identifying problems and finding solutions not just in Tomah, but system-wide,” said Rep. Kind. “Congress has a role in making sure that pain-management programs for our veterans are being managed responsibly, which should include looking into painkiller prescription rates to make sure that every veteran is getting the appropriate treatment. Ultimately, any problem with veteran care needs to be identified and resolved as soon as possible.”“The allegations at the Tomah VA are troubling. A hearing looking into the pain management practices throughout the Veterans Health Administration is warranted,” Rep. Walz said. “The VA is taking steps to improve care for veterans, but we can and must continue to investigate and root out any bad actors to ensure our warriors that utilize the VA are getting the best care possible.”Last week, Rep. Kind sent a letter to the Department of Veterans Affairs requesting that an investigation be launched in light of a recent report that the Tomah VA has been over-prescribing opiates to veterans being served at that facility. A copy of that letter can be read here. Soon after, VA Secretary Robert McDonald announced the start of that investigation on a call with Rep. Kind and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The VA also announced that the Tomah chief of staff has been temporarily reassigned (and barred from dispensing prescriptions)pending the results of the investigation.On Thursday, Rep. Kind visited the Tomah VA and spoke directly with officials there about the allegations. He has also been in touch with additional individuals with knowledge of the situation.The letter calling for a hearing cites a system-wide study conducted by the VA Office of Inspector General and released in May 2014, detailing how many opioid patients have complex conditions which make them more likely to be given multiple medications that can interact dangerously with opioid medications. A copy of the letter can be found here.
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) sent a letter to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers today requesting that an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) be conducted ahead of the BNSF Railway’s planned track expansion through the City of La Crosse and along the La Crosse River Marsh.They write, “A federal EIS is required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for actions that could have significant environmental impacts, and it provides reasonable alternatives which would avoid or minimize adverse effects.”“We urge you to require an EIS to determine how water quality, vegetation, wildlife, flood drainage, and navigation of the La Crosse River Marsh and Mississippi River wetlands will be affected by the planned railway expansion,” they conclude.To read the full letter, click here.
01.15.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is commending the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for launching an investigation he called for earlier this week into allegations of over-medication and retaliatory behavior at the Tomah VA. Rep. Kind was briefed by Secretary Robert McDonald this morning on the investigation.“The VA is right to launch a full investigation into opiates being over-prescribed at the Tomah VA, so we can figure out the extent of the problem and work to ensure that it’s resolved as soon as possible,” said Rep. Kind.“The allegations being made are extremely serious, and this investigation is a good next step toward correcting the problem and making sure it doesn’t happen again because every veteran deserves the best care possible.”Rep. Kind sent a letter on Monday to the Department of Veterans Affairs requesting that this investigation be launched, in light of a recent report that the Tomah VA has been over-prescribing opiates to veterans being served at that facility. A copy of that letter can be read here.Joined by U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Rep. Kind spoke to VA Secretary Robert McDonald this morning about the investigation, which will be conducted jointly between the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) and the Office of Accountability Review (OAR). The VHA set a timeframe of 4-6 weeks for an initial update. The VA has also announced that the Tomah chief of staff has been temporarily reassigned and barred from dispensing prescriptions pending the results of the investigation.Later today, Rep. Kind will be meeting with officials at the Tomah VA to discuss the allegations personally. He has also been in touch with individuals with knowledge of the situation.
01.12.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) sent a letter today to the Department of Veterans Affairs requesting a formal investigation into allegations brought forward in a recent report that the Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Center in Tomah has been over-prescribing opiates to veterans being served at that facility.“The allegations made in this report are extremely serious and require immediate action,” said Rep. Kind. “The top priority needs to be determining what the problem is and resolving it immediately, because every veteran deserves the best care possible. I’ve been in contact with leaders at the Tomah VA, and I will continue to utilize every resource available to make sure that our veterans are getting the treatment they need.” The letter calls for an immediate investigation into the use of painkillers at the Tomah VA Medical Center, and seeks to determine if these issues are unique to Tomah or if the over-prescription of opiates is a system-wide problem. It also notes an investigation conducted by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) into the prescribing practices at the Tomah VA, and asks what steps are being taken to implement the investigation’s recommendations from this report.Rep. Kind has taken proactive steps on behalf of veterans in Wisconsin. He led a group of 14 Members of Congress in calling on the President to create a Blue Ribbon Commission to improve care delivery at the VA and investigate allegations that some department personnel covered up long wait times for veterans seeking care. Rep. Kind voted for legislation making it easier for the department secretary to fire senior officials for poor performance, and also joined Wisconsin Reps. Gwen Moore and Mark Pocan in sending letters to the VA facilities in Milwaukee, Madison, Tomah and Minneapolis, MN, calling for further action to identify any problems and steps necessary to ensure all veterans have timely access to the care they deserve.A copy of the letter sent to the Department of Veterans Affairs can be read here.
01.09.2015	La Crosse, WI– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement in reaction to the Obama Administration’s proposal to make the first two years of community college free for students under certain conditions. According to estimates, the proposal could benefit 9 million students annually and save them an average of $3,800 in tuition if all 50 states participate:“The President’s plan to make two years of community college free for those willing to work for it is a good step toward making college more affordable for working families. Coupled with the student loan debt crisis that continues to worsen, tuition costs for higher education are a terrible economic strain on middle-class families.“We have four community colleges in my congressional district that do a great job preparing the next generation of workers for the good paying jobs of the future, working closely with the private sector to make sure our students have the skills that local businesses are looking for.“I’m looking forward to seeing the details of this proposal and how it could benefit our community colleges, students and their families. And we can easily find offsets for this plan by further reining in health care costs, cutting unnecessary defense projects the Pentagon doesn’t even want, or eliminating the wasteful subsidies in our farm policy.”
01.06.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) sent a letter today requesting that the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) require BNSF Railway to complete an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) prior to their planned track expansion through the City of La Crosse and along the La Crosse River Marsh.They write, “We urge you to require an EIS to determine whether water quality, vegetation, wildlife, and navigation of the La Crosse River Marsh and Mississippi River area will be affected by the planned railway expansion.”“The preservation and protection of the La Crosse River Marsh and the Mississippi River are vital to sustaining a strong economy, a high quality of life for communities along the river, and maintenance of a watershed rich with biodiversity. It is critical that all potential environmental impacts of this project are fully understood before a decision is made,” they conclude.To read the full letter, click here.
01.05.2015	La Crosse, WI – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Health and Human Services (HHS) Regional Director Kathleen Falk held a press conference in La Crosse today to discuss how the enrollment process is different and easier this year as well as where people can go to purchase quality, affordable health care coverage during the current open enrollment period. Rep. Kind and RD Falk were joined by Sandy Brekke, Executive Director of the St. Clare Health Mission in La Crosse and Lindsey Schwarz-Nichols with the La Crosse County Health Department, who elaborated on how the ACA has had a positive impact on the community. “We’re here today to get the word out that quality health care is available and affordable. Consumers still have until February 15th to look at their options and choose a plan that meets their specific needs,” said Rep. Kind. “The La Crosse County Health Department and the St. Clare Health Mission do important work serving the community and helping connect people with health care who may have never had it before. Getting health care coverage means getting good preventive care, which keeps more people out of the hospital and lowers costs for everyone.”“Nationwide, more than 4 million people signed up for health insurance through the Marketplace, from Oct. 1 thru Dec. 15. In Wisconsin 92,398 people selected plans. But we also know there are many more still without affordable health insurance and we are seeing that almost 90 percent of those without insurance do not know that now through Feb. 15 they have the opportunity to shop,” said US Dept. of Health and Human Services Region 5 Director Kathleen Falk. “This is why it is so important that we get the word out through events like the one here today. Additionally, we encourage people who enrolled last year to shop again this year, as there may be even better options available.”Thanks to the ACA, 2.1 million Wisconsinites (including 580,000 children) are now free from worrying about lifetime limits on coverage, and more than 140,000 Wisconsin residents will benefit from over $3.5 million in rebates from insurance companies.Open enrollment for signing up for health care ends on Feb. 15. Before that date, consumers can enroll for the first time, choose to stay in a current plan, or change to a new plan. Some consumers may find that certain plans offer more services, new financial assistance, or a broader range of doctors. The process is especially easy for consumers who are renewing coverage – up to 90% of the application will already be filled out based on what was completed last year.Rep. Kind and RD Falk encouraged all consumers to visit Healthcare.gov, call the national hotline at (800) 318-2596 or find in-person assistance at a local health care provider to make sure that they are getting the best coverage possible.
12.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement after President Obama announced plans to normalize relations with Cuba:“I support normalizing relations with Cuba that will ease restrictions between our countries and put an end to 50 years of failed policy. It doesn’t make sense to have economic relations with a Communist nation like China, yet stay closed off to a nation just 90 miles off our coast. Now, Congress needs to act to end the embargo altogether and fully open up this new market to U.S exports. For years, farmers in Wisconsin have wanted to lift economic sanctions on Cuba and with today’s news we can look forward to new economic growth and job creation in agriculture, manufacturing and other sectors of our economy.”
12.10.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) welcomed the news that North Dakota regulators moved to strengthen the stability standards for Bakken crude oil beyond the standards enforced at the federal level. Rep. Kind has been a strong advocate for oil stabilization prior to shipment by rail.“This improved safety standard is a step in the right direction. Now, the Department of Transportation needs to increase federal standards to ensure that the crude oil being shipped through our communities is as safe as possible,” said Rep. Kind. “In light of recent rail accidents in Wisconsin and elsewhere in the nation, there is real urgency to improve the way we transport crude oil. Moving forward, we need to enhance track inspections, upgrade our train tracks, and get community-wide transparency regarding the contents of these trains so everyone knows exactly what is passing through their neighborhoods.”North Dakota’s Industrial Commission moved to require all Bakken crude oil producers to remove the most volatile components from the oil before it is shipped, making it even safer than current federal regulations call for. Stabilizing the oil reduces the vapor pressure within the tanks, making the oil less combustible.Rep. Kind has been a vocal advocate for improved rail safety in Wisconsin and nationally. This summer, Rep. Kind sent a letter to DOT Secretary Anthony Foxx asking that his agency explore stabilizing crude oil before it is shipped. A copy of that letter can be read here. He followed up with a September letter to the DOT and the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration with several suggestions for improving the safety of oil transportation, including improved tank car standards, reduced train speeds, increased transparency about tank car contents, and oil stabilization. That letter can be read here.
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement regarding the report released today about the use of torture (a.k.a. enhanced interrogation techniques) by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA):“This report found that the use of torture was much more pervasive than the previous Administration had led us to believe.“This is the kind of behavior our enemies engage in, behavior that we as a nation can never accept. We have a responsibility to promote human rights and civil liberties across the globe, and for us to have any credibility, we need to come to grips with our past and take ownership of our mistakes. This is what great nations and a great democracy like ours must do from time to time – airing our dirty laundry no matter how uneasy and uncomfortable it makes us. We cannot simply sweep the past under the rug.“In numerous classified briefings, I asked for more information on the use of enhanced interrogation, only to be stonewalled by intelligence leaders. Then, in 2012, I visited Afghanistan and spent time with our special forces who worked in interrogation centers. I asked them about the effectiveness of enhanced interrogation, and they all agreed that these methods are unreliable, that they yield no useful information, and that there are better ways to extract information from prisoners.“This report should be used to shine light on our mistakes and lead us to better national security policies. Our intelligence officials play a vital role in keeping America safe – let’s give them the tools they need to protect us while adhering to the values upon which our nation was founded.”
12.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced today that Wisconsin is getting $294,596 in “Farm to School” grants from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), including $99,032 for the Sparta Area School District. The grants will be used to increase access to fresh produce for students, providing an economic boost for local family farms.“It's hard to develop a healthy mind without a healthy body, so helping schools provide fresh, nutritious meals will encourage good eating habits and keep our students healthy during these critical formative years,” said Rep. Kind. “Connecting school cafeterias to local farms will bring communities together by boosting local economies and giving young people an appreciation for our agricultural heritage.”The Sparta Area School District project will expand access to fresh produce and bolster healthy eating for schools in the Sparta, Tomah, and Norwalk?Ontario?Wilton school districts. Specifically, the grant helps develop a plan to serve more locally and regionally harvested meats, produce and grains, equip school kitchens with the tools they need to prepare fresh produce, and educate students about their local and regional food options.The Healthy Hunger?Free Kids Act of 2010 authorized and funded the USDA to establish the Farm to School program.
11.17.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Federal Duck Stamp Act of 2014, a bipartisan bill authored by Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and John Fleming (R-LA). The bill will increase funding for wetland conservation by adjusting the cost of duck stamps purchased by hunters nationwide.“Hunters, collectors and outdoor enthusiasts who purchase duck stamps play a vital role in protecting our wetlands here in Wisconsin and across the country” said Rep. Kind. “By updating the program to better meet our conservation needs, we are sharing in this investment so that future generations can continue to enjoy this vital habitat.”The sale and distribution of federal duck stamps help fund the conservation of waterfowl habitat across the country. But the cost of a duck stamp has not been changed since 1991, while the need to protect wildlife habitat continues to increase. This legislation adjusts the cost of a duck stamp to $25.Approximately 98 cents out of every dollar raised by ducks stamps are spent on wetland conservation.Since 1934, more than 120 million federal duck stamps have been sold nationwide. With the sale of these stamps, more than $800 million has been collected and deposited into the Migratory Bird Conservation Fund. This funding has been used to purchase or lease over 5.3 million acres of vital wetlands and essential waterfowl habitat that have been incorporated within the National Wildlife Refuge System.The Federal Duck Stamp Act is supported by numerous conservation organizations including Ducks Unlimited and the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation.
11.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) released the following statements after joining President Obama at a White House ceremony today, where Wisconsin native Lt. Alonzo Cushing was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic actions in the Battle of Gettysburg. Also attending the event was Margaret Zerwekh of Delafield, WI, a leader in the effort to honor Lt. Cushing.“It’s never too late to do the right thing, and it’s been a great honor to be a part of Lt. Alonzo Cushing’s story,” said Rep. Kind. “Making today’s ceremony particularly special was the presence of Wisconsin’s own Margaret Zerwekh, Lt. Cushing’s first advocate who reached out to my old boss, Senator William Proxmire, to begin the process that brought us to the White House today. As the President said, this would not have been possible without her.”“Without Margaret’s persistence, Lt. Alonzo Cushing would not have been honored today for his heroics during the Civil War,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. “I commend her for her tireless determination and have enjoyed working with her to ensure Lt. Cushing is properly recognized. It was a privilege to join Margaret at the White House ceremony.”Full video of the ceremony can be found here.
10.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), leaders of the Congressional effort to award Lt. Alonzo Cushing with a posthumous Medal of Honor, will attend a White House ceremony on November 6th to pay tribute to this Wisconsin-born Civil War hero. Lt. Cushing played a key role in securing a victory for the Union in the Battle of Gettysburg.“It’s been a long and challenging journey to get Lt. Cushing the recognition he deserves, but as I always say, it’s never too late to do the right thing for our war heroes,” said Rep. Kind. “It will be a tremendous honor to join with the President, military leaders, and some of Lt. Cushing’s descendants to witness this occasion 151 years after Lt. Cushing bravely gave his life at the Battle of Gettysburg.”“Before going off to fight, Lt. Cushing reportedly told a cousin that, while he knew he was unlikely to return, he would make a name for himself in the war. One-hundred and fifty-one years after he stared down General Pickett’s charge, I am thrilled to join Lt. Cushing’s family and esteemed guests at the White House to honor the sacrifice that secured his place in history,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. “This award culminates tireless efforts by constituents who recognized Lt. Cushing’s bravery and more than two decades of bipartisan work in Congress.” A native of Delafield, WI, Alonzo Cushing’s actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. Three days into the battle on July 3, 1863, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was badly injured. Continuing to fight, he sustained two more wounds before succumbing to his wounds on the field of battle.The legislation passed by Congress made it possible to waive the requirement that recommendations for the Medal of Honor be made within two years of the heroic action, and awarded within three years. Lt. Cushing’s medal can now be awarded, having received the recommendation of the Department of Defense and the approval of the President. Earlier this year, Reps. Sensenbrenner and Kind sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record.
10.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is calling on Governor Scott Walker to use the power granted to his office to raise the minimum wage in Wisconsin. Following the formal receipt of petitions from Wisconsinites affected by the low minimum wage, the deadline for the Governor to act is today.“People who work full time shouldn't have to live in poverty,” said Rep. Kind. “And we’re not just talking about entry-level jobs or jobs for students. Too many Wisconsin families are struggling to get by on the current minimum wage, and Gov. Walker has the ability to immediately step in and give these working families a hand. He’s waited long enough – the time for action is now.”Wisconsin’s governor, unlike those in many other states, has the ability to raise the minimum wage according to state statute. Gov. Walker has received petitions from Wisconsin residents who have been struggling to make ends meet while earning the minimum wage, giving him the ability to take immediate action on their behalf.“The law is clear: every worker in our state should earn a living wage. The current minimum wage clearly falls short of that, and every day that Gov. Walker refuses to act puts working families further behind,” concluded Rep. Kind.A worker making $7.25 an hour (the federal minimum wage since 2009) earns $15,080 annually. Nationally,the average minimum wage worker is 35 years old and responsible for half of their family’s total income. Fully 75% of minimum wage earners are adults trying to make ends meet. Earlier this year, Rep. Kind petitioned Speaker Boehner to allow a vote on increasing the minimum wage to $10.10 over the next two years.
10.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-03), Mark Pocan (WI-02) and Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent a letter today to Governor Scott Walker urging him to apply for the Preschool Development Expansion Grant. Wisconsin is one of 36 states invited to apply for a share of $250 million in grants directed to help states develop and expand high-quality preschool programs for children from low- and moderate-income levels.The Governor’s Office missed the September 11 deadline to notify the Department of Education and the Department of Health and Human Services of Wisconsin’s intention to apply. With one week left until the application deadline, the Governor’s Office has still not indicated that it will apply for the grant – potentially leaving millions of dollars for pre-K education on the table.They write, “We strongly urge your administration to apply for this grant funding opportunity and allow our state the chance to compete for funding which could strengthen preschool programs for millions of children across our state.”Wisconsin is eligible for up to $15 million dollars a year in funding for a period of four years. The funding would allow some districts to expand 4-year-old kindergarten to full-day kindergarten and improve the quality of instruction for children across Wisconsin. Currently, most districts have 4-year-old kindergarten, but the state funding only pays for an average of only 2.5 hours per day.The letter continues, “In light of reports indicating that the achievement gap among students of color and their white peers is growing in Wisconsin, it is critical that our state exercise every option when it comes to accessing grant funding to support early education initiatives.”The full text of the letter can be found here.
10.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) harshly criticized the deal reached between the United States and Brazil regarding World Trade Organization (WTO) compliance in the cotton industry. The end result is a $300 million payout made to Brazilian cotton farmers.“This outrageous waste of taxpayer dollars continues. Our annual payoffs to Brazilian cotton farmers should have been eliminated long ago, but we’re sending them a $300 million payment instead,” said Rep. Kind. “I pushed to resolve this mess when Congress was debating the last Farm Bill, but Congress didn’t act and now we are left with a bad deal that’s paid for by American taxpayers.”The terms of the deal include a one-time payment of $300 million to the Brazilian cotton industry, a requirement that Brazil consult with the U.S. before moving to the WTO in the future, and a promise of no further WTO litigation through 2018 (when the current Farm Bill expires). But the agreement is only operational for the duration of the current Farm Bill, and leaves the U.S. open to claims made from outside the cotton industry.Payments to the Brazilian cotton industry have been occurring for years. In 2008, Brazil successfully argued to the WTO that U.S. agriculture subsidies to cotton producers violated WTO agreements. Following the WTO’s ruling, instead of reforming the cotton program when facing retaliatory tariffs and sanctions from Brazil, Congress and the Administration agreed to pay the Brazilian cotton industry $147.3 million a year – the amount determined as the losses Brazilians incur as a result of U.S. cotton subsidies.Rep. Kind has been a longstanding advocate for eliminating payments to Brazilian cotton farmers, and has repeatedly pushed for legislation to end the practice of sending $147 million in taxpayer dollars to the Brazilian cotton industry each year. The deal announced today is the result of Congressional failure to adopt comprehensive subsidy reform.“We need to get our house in order and reform our subsidies programs in their entirety. Sending a huge payoff to Brazil is not the answer,” concluded Rep. Kind. “If my old boss, the late Senator Bill Proxmire, were still giving out his famous Golden Fleece Awards our policy on Brazilian cotton would be a guaranteed winner.”
09.26.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) called out House Republican leadership for adjourning until November, after a shortened Fall session of politically motivated posturing that did nothing to create jobs or strengthen our economy.“It’s no wonder that approval ratings for Congress are so low. House Republicans closed out September with nothing but dead-end bills and political gamesmanship, adjourning until November having done nothing to create jobs,” said Rep. Kind.“I’ve been working on bipartisan solutions that will lower taxes on employers, put money in the hands of consumers, and invest in education and infrastructure. But it’s hard to get things done when Congress leaves town early after punting on any real work.”Before adjourning, House Republicans offered a series of bills that have already been passed in the House, or that have no chance of being signed into law, in order to create the illusion that they are working to create jobs.Even as House Republican leadership has failed to act on job growth, Rep. Kind has been working on a number of job-creating initiatives including:-The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act(H.R. 2940), which creates a new section of the tax code to promote American manufacturing by reducing the effective tax rate of domestic manufacturers to 20%.-The Rural Microbusiness Investment Credit Act(H.R. 5346), which allows a business-related tax credit for 35% of new investment in a rural business that employs up to 5 full-time employees in a financially distressed rural area.-A five-point Student Loan Debt Action Plan, as college grads have more than $1 trillion in debt, which weakens the housing market and car sales, stifling economic growth. (Read the full plan here.)-A seven-year extension of the Export-Import Bank, since the House only reauthorized the Bank through June 30 of next year. A long-term extension will help build our middle class at home by selling American-made products to the growing middle class abroad.-A long-term investment in the Highway Trust Fundto rebuild America’s infrastructure,which would keep our roads and bridges safe, and create hundreds of thousands of construction jobs in the process.
09.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx and U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) held a forum at the La Crosse County Highway Department in West Salem today, where they discussed local and national transportation issues, and stressed the importance of long-term infrastructure investmentsthat will improve public safety and create jobs.“Our economy still isn’t where we need it to be, and putting Wisconsinites to work repairing our crumbling roads and bridges is a smart investment that creates good paying jobs now. Our nation’s infrastructure gets a ‘D’ grade, so passing a long-term highway bill is good for our economy and public safety,” said Rep. Kind. “A new highway bill will create hundreds of thousands of jobs and we can’t afford to wait any longer to get it done.”This summer, Congress passed a ten-month, $10 billion patch to the Highway Trust Fund (the federal funding source for local transportation projects). This short-term fix ultimately results in economic uncertainty and unpredictability at the state and local level, hindering much-needed transportation investments. In Congress, Rep. Kind has foughtfor a comprehensive, multi-year transportation bill.According to a 2013 American Society of Civil Engineers report, 71% of Wisconsin’s roads are in “poor or mediocre” condition and 1,157 bridges are “structurally deficient.” The nation’s infrastructure as a whole received a “D” grade. And the transportation research group TRIP estimates that the average driver pays $377 every year in additional car care as a result of driving on roads that need repair.At the forum, Secretary Foxx and Rep. Kind provided updates and information on their work at the federal level, and got feedback from road builders, workers, local officials and other transportation stakeholders in attendance about the need for action on a long-term plan.Secretary Foxx and Rep. Kind also discussed rail safety, an important topic in Wisconsin as Bakken crude oil is being shipped across Wisconsin in record amounts. A strong proponent of expanded rail-safety measures, Rep. Kind has called for phasing out old tank cars, reducing train speed limits, inspecting and enhancing train tracks, and further examining the practice of oil “stabilization,” which removes the most volatile elements of crude oil in order to make it less combustible. Rep. Kind has also fought to for more community-wide transparency regarding the contents of trains.
09.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Aaron Schock (R-IL), Pat Tiberi (R-OH), and Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) introduced the Teacher Tax Relief Act, H.R. 5504, to make permanent the deduction allowed for teachers who purchase classroom supplies out of pocket and expands the deduction to include professional development expenses.“Too often teachers spend their own hard-earned money in order to provide their students with basic school supplies,” said the Representatives. “Our bill will alleviate some of the financial burden placed on today’s teachers while also making a significant investment in the education and the futures of America’s children. This bipartisan legislation will allow teachers to expand their knowledge, keep skills current, and equip themselves and their students for success.”Director of NEA Government Relations Mary Kusler said, “Educators nationwide who work to create successful learning environments for all of their students appreciate the leadership and support of the bipartisan sponsors of this bill. In recent years, educators have spent $1.6 billion of their own money to ensure their students have basic supplies and instructional materials that help them meet their goals. Providing educators with a modest tax deduction that will now keep pace with inflation, is an important recognition of educators’ daily sacrifices on behalf of the students they serve.”BACKGROUNDEvery year educators across the country foot the bill for basic classroom supplies out of dedication to teaching and to their students. In fact, the National School Supply and Equipment Association found that for the 2005-2006 school year educators spent out of their own pockets an average of $826 for supplies and $926 for instructional materials – for a total of $1,752.Additionally, teacher quality is critical to maximize student achievement, as highly qualified teachers will enable students to meet high standards. Continued professional development is one vital way that teachers keep their skills and knowledge current, and best equip themselves to prepare students for college and the challenges of the 21st Century global workplace. Expanding the tax deduction to cover qualified continuing education pursuits further assures the success of our teachers and our children. The legislation is written to adjust for inflation so that the deduction keeps pace with the growing cost to teachers.
09.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement on the Continuing Resolution (CR) bill passed today in the U.S. House:“The legislation passed today provides funding to confront the growing threat of the ISIS terror group, but this is a complex issue with no simple solution. The step we took today is the best of the bad options that we have.I supported the measure because it gives the President bipartisan support to help him build a coalition in opposition to this growing threat, provides oversight resulting in greater accountability, and is the best plan to avoid putting combat troops on the ground. “I strongly oppose committing combat troops to the region, and I remain deeply concerned about mission creep. We need to be very clear about what the definition of ‘success’ is, and what the costs will be to achieve it.“The bill also prevents another government shutdown, which had disastrous consequences when Republicans played that game a year ago. We avoided that unforced error this time, but once again the House majority is pursuing a piecemeal approach to governing that stifles economic growth. Employers and small business owners want and deserve a stable, predictable economic environment so they can make long-term business decisions about expanding, hiring new workers or starting a new venture.“A similar piecemeal approach was taken with the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, which was extended through June 30 of next year. I will continue to push for a seven-year extension for the Ex-Im Bank so that we can build our middle class here at home by selling American-made products to the growing middle class abroad.”
09.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s strategy to confront the ISIS terrorist group. Rep. Kind also attended a classified briefing on ISIS held by White House officials for House members earlier today.“The United States is building a broad international coalition to address this terrorist threat, and support for that effort is growing across the globe. But this is a complex issue with no simple solution.“I have said from the beginning that I do not support sending any military combat troops in order to deal with ISIS. The current situation in Iraq is another example of the Sunni-Shia split that’s been in existence for centuries, and only the people in the region are going to be able to resolve this for themselves. Having more combat troops in the Middle East is not the answer.“I support the President’s decisions to use targeted airstrikes in Syria and Iraq to degrade and destroy ISIS, and to send service members to assist Iraqi and Kurdish forces with training and intelligence. I am also encouraged to see that Iraq has created a national unity government that includes a cross section of religious and ethnic groups focused on overcoming the extremism represented by ISIS.“I am expecting a lot more clarification on the what the definition of ‘success’ will be in this effort, and what the costs will be to achieve that goal. And I am concerned about mission creep, and want to ensure that our engagement in Iraq and Syria remains targeted but effective.”
09.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) welcomed the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report recommending that Congress explore reducing federal crop insurance subsidies for revenue loss policies. The report found that in FY2012, the U.S. government potentially would have saved more than $400 million taxpayer dollars by lowering subsidy levels by just five percentage points. “This report reiterates the fact that crop insurance reform is needed to bring down the deficit and save taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Kind. “The farm bill passed earlier this year made the crop insurance program even worse, leaving us with a system in which somefarmers down South get over $1 million a year in these subsidies. It’s time to work together in a bipartisan fashion to make crop insurance more transparent and accountable to taxpayers, while maintaining a safety net for the farmers who need assistance.”Released this week, the report states that Congress should consider reducing federal subsidies for crop insurance policies as a way to reduce the budget deficit, declaring that reductions to the most common and expensive crop insurance policy would save hundreds of millions for taxpayers.The crop insurance program costs taxpayers about $9 billion per year. It indirectly subsidizes 62% (on average) of farmers’ crop insurance premiums, reimburses insurance companies for 100% of their administrative and operating expenses, and adjusts premiums in order to produce a 14% return for crop insurance companies. And at least 50 billionaires or farm businesses in which they had a financial interest benefited from $11.3 million in traditional farm subsidies between 1995 and 2012.Last year Rep. Kind and Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) authored the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act, which calls for comprehensive reforms to our crop insurance premium subsidy program to save taxpayer dollars and promote transparency. The AFFIRM Act would savetaxpayers $11 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers. The legislation calls for a cap of $40,000 in crop insurance premium subsidies per individual farm and eliminates crop insurance premium subsidies for individuals with an adjusted gross income of more than $250,000.Additionally, Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Kind asked the GAO to conduct a review of crop insurance payments and shed some light on how much of the payments go to wealthy individuals and families.The full GAO report can be found here.
09.05.2014	
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement regarding the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that Wisconsin’s ban on same-sex marriage is unconstitutional:“This decision marks another step toward full equality for all Wisconsinites. I applaud the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals for ruling on the side of equal rights. Clearly, momentum is on the side of marriage equality.The government shouldn’t stand in the way of two people who want to make a lifetime commitment to one another.”
08.27.2014	President Obama to Honor Wisconsin Native for Bravery in the Battle of GettysburgWASHINGTON, DC – President Barack Obama has announced that he will act on legislation authored by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) to posthumously award Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor. Lt. Cushing, a Wisconsin-born Civil War hero, played a key role in securing a victory for the Union in the Battle of Gettysburg.“Even after more than 150 years, it’s never too late to do the right thing for our war heroes,” said Rep. Kind. “Lt. Cushing richly deserves his Medal of Honor, and as a Wisconsinite and an American I feel honored to have helped lead the effort in Congress to make this happen.”“I am pleased thatFirst Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing will finally receive our nation’s highest military honor,” said Rep. Sensenbrenner. “Awarding the Medal of Honor to Lt. Cushing, a native of Delafield, Wisconsin, culminates more than two decades of bipartisan work and is long overdue. Lt. Cushing was a courageous leader who at just 22 years of age, gave his life to protect our sovereign nation at the Battle of Gettysburg. His exceptional bravery and determination on the battlefield should serve as an inspiration to us all.”A native of Delafield, WI, Alonzo Cushing’s actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. Three days into the battle on July 3, 1863, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was badly injured. Continuing to fight, he sustained two more wounds before succumbing to his wounds on the field of battle.The legislation passed by Congress made it possible to waive the requirement that recommendations for the Medal of Honor be made within two years of the heroic action, and awarded within three years. Lt. Cushing’s medal can now be awarded, having received the recommendation of the Department of Defense and the approval of the President. Earlier this year, Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record.
08.26.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) renewed his call for action on behalf of America’s veterans, on the heels of President Obama’s speech at the American Legion’s 96th Annual National Convention. The President announced 19 executive orders designed to assist the military community.“American service members, veterans, and their families deserve the best care possible – period. The Administration’s announcement today takes some significant steps in the right direction but there is a lot of work left to be done to make sure that every veteran gets the care he or she deserves,” said Rep. Kind.Rep. Kind is taking proactive steps on behalf of veterans in Wisconsin. He and his staff have been in contact with VA clinic staff across the state to discuss delivery of care and potential obstacles that may exist to get veterans the care they need and deserve.Rep. Kind led a group of 14 Members of Congress in calling on the President to create a Blue Ribbon Commission to improve care delivery at the VA and investigate allegations that some department personnel covered up long wait times for veterans seeking care. This bipartisan, independent commission consisting of leaders with military backgrounds would focus on gathering the facts, holding bad actors accountable and ensuring that none of these problems happen again.Earlier this year, Rep. Kind voted for bills making it easier for the department secretary to fire senior officials for poor performance, and requiring the VA to offer care through civilian doctors if a veteran encounters long wait times or lives more than 40 miles from a VA facility. And last month, Rep. Kind joined Wisconsin Reps. Gwen Moore and Mark Pocan in sending letters to the VA facilities in Milwaukee, Madison, Tomah and Minneapolis, MN, calling for further action to identify any problems and steps necessary to ensure all veterans have timely access to the care they deserve.“I’ve had many visits and conversations with Wisconsin veterans and VA staff and I believe that the facilities serving our state provide quality care.I’m staying in touch with VA clinics and veterans around the district to make sure they have what they need, because when it comes to serving our veterans, the commitment never ends,” concluded Rep. Kind.
08.19.2014	Washington, D.C. – Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im Bank) Chairman Fred P. Hochberg and Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) held a Global Access Forum for small businesses in Eau Claire and met with local leaders in La Crosse before touring Inland Label, a La Crosse small business that exports labels to countries worldwide. “If we hope to strengthen our middle class here at home, we have to sell American-made products to the growing middle class outside our borders. The Ex-Im Bank helps American businesses expand their markets and create good jobs here at home, and I was proud to welcome Chairman Hochberg to Wisconsin today for him to bring that message directly to local employers,” said Rep. Kind. “Wisconsin produces a lot of goods for export, and I will continue to be a strong supporter of the Ex-Im Bank so more small and mid-sized businesses can find new foreign markets for Wisconsin-made products.”“I had a wonderful opportunity to meet with Wisconsin small-business exporters W.S. Darley Co. and Inland Label Company, which have increased their sales abroad and created jobs here in Wisconsin while utilizing the Export-Import Bank. Representative Kind and I want to make sure that more Wisconsin companies know about these resources if financing is a hurdle to increasing exports,” said Export-Import Bank Chairman and President Fred P. Hochberg. “This is Ex-Im Bank’s specialty. Since FY 2007, we have equipped 112 Wisconsin small businesses to export goods and services worth approximately $4 billion, and we look forward to supporting more Wisconsin companies as they sell beyond our borders, grow their operations and create jobs in the years ahead."The Global Access Forum, held at Chippewa Valley Technical College in Eau Claire, is a town-hall discussion where local small businesses engage with the Ex-Im Bank and also state and federal officials to discuss how to increase their international sales, gain insight into accessing foreign markets, and utilize the Bank's economic growth tools.Chairman Hochberg and Rep. Kind then met with local leaders and employers in La Crosse to discuss the Ex-Im Bank’s role in economic growth and job creation, before touring a local small business that has benefited from the services offered by the Ex-Im Bank. Ex-Im Bank has financed more small-business transactions in the last five years than in the previous 11 years combined. In FY 2013 alone, the Bank approved a record 3,413 transactions -- or 89 percent -- for small businesses. An independent federal agency, the Ex-Im Bank creates and maintains U.S. jobs by filling gaps in private export financing at no cost to American taxpayers. It provides a variety of financing mechanisms, including working-capital guarantees, export-credit insurance, and financing to help foreign buyers purchase U.S. goods and services. In the past fiscal year alone, Ex-Im Bank earned U.S. taxpayers more than $1 billion above the cost of its operations. In FY 2013, Ex-Im Bank approved more than $27 billion in total authorizations to support an estimated $37.4 billion in U.S. export sales and approximately 205,000 American jobs in communities across the country.Small business exporters can learn about how Ex-Im Bank products can help them increase foreign salesat https://go.usa.gov/ZVTd. For other information about Ex-Im, visit www.exim.gov.
08.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement concerning the recent announcement that UW-La Crosse’s ROTC Eagle Battalion Reserve Officers’ Training program has been approved by the U.S. Army to continue on campus, with annual re-evaluations.“This is terrific news for UW-L and its ROTC cadets. UW-L’s program is meeting and exceeding the metrics put in place last year as part of a national evaluation of ROTC programs, with particular success in producing science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) graduates who will bring cutting-edge skills and knowledge to the U.S Army.“I commend every student who pursues a career in our military while attending college, and I look forward to continued success for this program for years to come.”Rep. Kind and U.S. Senators Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin sent a letter to the Secretary of the Army expressing support for UW-L’s ROTC program when it was considered for closure last year. A copy of the letter can be read here.
08.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement today after the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) railroad announced it will ship more coal to Dairyland Power Cooperative to generate power and ensure the stability of the electric grid. Last month, Rep. Kind and Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) sent a letter to the Chairman of the Surface Transportation Board urging him to ensure that Dairyland Power would get enough coal to meet its needs:“I am pleased that BNSF made this commitment to ship enough coal to give consumers some peace of mind as winter approaches. Adequate coal supplies will help keep energy prices low and ensure that Dairyland Power can fully power our communities.“With crude oil taking an increasing share of our rail transport capacity, it’s important that the basic energy needs of our homes and businesses are met, especially after the extreme conditions so many of us faced last winter. I will be closely monitoring the supply of coal to our region and will work to ensure that our energy needs are met.”A copy of the letter sent by Reps. Kind and Walz can be read here.
08.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman visited the Farm of Byron Krueger in Melrose to spotlight the economic benefits that exporting Made-in-America goods and services is bringing to Wisconsin every day. They also advocated for President Obama’s historic trade agenda, which will unlock opportunity for Wisconsin farmers, businesses, families and workers by helping them sell more exports across the world. After touring the Krueger family farm, which is home to over 400 dairy cows, Ambassador Froman and Rep. Kind held a forum with farmers and agriculture community leaders to discuss how Wisconsin stands to gain from the current U.S. trade agenda, especially through trade deals that are being negotiated with countries in the Asia-Pacific region and the European Union. “It’s great to connect Wisconsin farmers, workers and businesses with America’s top trade negotiator to chart a path that will keep America competitive in the 21st century economy,” said Rep. Kind. “We currently have a trade surplus in agriculture, manufacturing and services with countries that have trade agreements with the U.S., and Wisconsin’s agricultural exports increased by 25 percent in the first three months of 2014 compared to last year. That’s good news for Wisconsin, and I’m committed to working with President Obama and Ambassador Froman on a fair trade agenda that will create Wisconsin jobs, raise labor and environmental standards, and reinforce America’s standing in the world.” “As President Obama said in his State of the Union address, his number one priority is to expand opportunity for Americans from all walks of life,” said U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman. “That goal is at the heart of our trade policy, which is aimed squarely at supporting jobs, fostering economic growth, and strengthening the American Middle Class. Wisconsin is an outstanding example of the contributions that hard-working farmers make to the United States economy by selling their crops and products abroad. Through cutting-edge, unprecedented trade agreements with the Asia Pacific region and the European Union, we are determined to help farmers and ranchers sell more Made-in-America exports to the world.” Tens of thousands of jobs are supported by Wisconsin exports. Wisconsin is also the second-largest exporter of dairy in the United States. In 2012, Wisconsin exported $724 million worth of dairy products – 14% of American total dairy exports. Earlier today Ambassador Froman and Rep. Kind held a roundtable with local business leaders and met with Wisconsin labor representatives to hear their input about U.S. trade policy. For a fact sheet about Wisconsin, the economic benefits of exporting, and President Obama’s trade agenda, click here.
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) introduced the Railroad Emergency Services Preparedness, Operational Needs, and Safety Evaluation (RESPONSE) Act today to help local first responders in the event of a train derailment or fuel spill.“The amount of oil being shipped through Wisconsin is skyrocketing, along with the risk of derailments and spills that could endanger entire communities,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill would bring needed support to our local first responders so they can react quickly and effectively in case of an emergency.”The RESPONSE Act would establish a subcommittee under FEMA’s National Advisory Council that would bring together agencies, technical experts, emergency responders and the private sector to review training, resources, best practices, and unmet needs related to emergency responders to railroad incidents. With the upcoming expansion of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation (BNSF) Railway through Rep. Kind’s district, crude oil transportation has become an increasingly serious safety concern.The group would provide recommendations to Congress within one year on emergency responder training and resource allocation, addressing quality of training, funding levels, emergency response plans, the development of a train incident database, and improving the flow of information to local first responders.The crude oil traffic on major freight railroads in the U.S. has grown by more than 6,000 percent between 2008 and 2013, according to the American Association of Railroads. Many large cities, states and the federal government have the training, capability and resources to respond to a hazmat incident on our railways, but in many communities it’s the local police, fire and medical personnel who are the first to arrive on the scene to secure the area and keep neighborhoods safe.“Just recently we had a train accident and fuel spill in southeastern Wisconsin, in the middle of a populated area. This collaborative effort will help ensure that communities of all sizes are protected here at home and around the country,” concluded Rep. Kind. “But more work remains, like enhancing track inspections, upgrading train tracks, and increasing transparency so the public knows what’s being transported on our rails.”Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) is a co-sponsor of the bill. A companion bill was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND).
07.30.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) has introduced new legislation to improve working conditions and labor standards both domestically and overseas by preventing the import of goods that use child labor, slave labor, or forced labor.“The United States must be a leader in elevating labor standards around the world. As a nation, it’s critical that we stand united against exploitative labor practices in any country,” said Rep. Kind. “Growing up in a union household in La Crosse, I know how crucial it is to have rules in place that protect workers. Setting high labor standards in the U.S. will help raise standards for everyone.”“The United States should adopt a zero tolerance policy when it comes to goods produced by children, slaves, indentured servants, and prisoners,” said Joe Hansen, International President of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union (UFCW), who began his career as a meat cutter in Milwaukee and is one of the nation’s leading champions for workers. “We have a moral obligation to lead by example and ensure all of our laws adhere to workers’ rights and human rights. Congressman Kind’s bill would close the consumptive demand loophole and let the world know we will not do business with those who abuse and exploit others.”The bill, H.R. 5247, would amend the Tariff Act of 1930 to prohibit the importation of goods made with labor classified as convict labor, forced labor, or indentured labor. It contains reporting requirements to ensure accountability. Every year, it will require that the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection submit a report on compliance that includes information on the number of instances in which merchandise was denied entry during the one-year period preceding the submission of the report, and a description of the merchandise denied entry.A bipartisan companion bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senate Finance Committee Ranking Member Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and former Finance Chair Max Baucus (D-MT).
07.29.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) sent letters to the Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities in Milwaukee, Madison, Tomah and Minneapolis, MN, calling for further action to address the negligent treatment and substandard care occurring within the VA system.The Members write, “Since reports exposing fraud and fake waiting lists in Phoenix, Arizona, we have been deeply disturbed to hear about the negligent treatment and care of our veterans at VA facilities across the country. While we are glad that the VA was quick to launch an internal investigation, more needs to be done.”“After repeated visits across the state and many conversations with Wisconsin veterans, we remain convinced that our Wisconsin facilities continue to provide quality care. Nonetheless, we in Congress need to identify the problems and steps necessary to ensure all veterans have timely access to the care they deserve…We look forward to working with you and our colleagues so that the men and women serving in our armed forces receive the quality care they deserve. It is our promise to leave no veteran behind,” the letter concludes.To read a version of the letter, click here.
07.28.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) sent a letter today to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx pushing the agency to make Bakken crude oil safer and less combustible.“As more and more of this volatile oil moves through our communities, we need to implement appropriate safety measures to reduce the risk of fatal accidents on our rail system,” said Rep. Kind. “DOT is taking steps in the right direction by moving to phase out old tank cars and reducing speed limits, but action needs to be taken immediately to make the Bakken crude oil moving through Wisconsin less dangerous.” While the amount of crude oil being transported by rail is skyrocketing (up 4,000 percent in the last five years) in Wisconsin and across the nation, train derailments and fuel spills are occurring with more frequency. Rep. Kind’s letter asks the DOT to further examine the practice of oil “stabilization,” a process that removes the most volatile elements of crude oil in order to make it less combustible and therefore safer to transport. A company in Texas has already begun stabilizing its crude oil at a reasonable cost.Most of the crude oil moved through pipelines is required to be stabilized, but there is no requirement for crude oil that is shipped by rail. Bakken crude has been found to be much more volatile than most other types of heavier crude oil.Rep. Kind has been a vocal advocate for improved rail safety in Wisconsin and nationwide. Earlier this year he joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to the Federal Railroad Administration and the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) asking for prompt action to improve rail safety. He later sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee that calls for increased funding for rail safety programs. Rep. Kind also introduced a bipartisan amendment passed by the House of Representatives last month to increase funding for the PHMSA’s operational account by $500,000. Additionally, he has been continuing to push for enhanced track inspections, upgrades to train tracks, and community-wide transparency regarding the contents of trains.A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Foxx can be found here.
07.23.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) issued the following statement after the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) announced new rules to improve the safety of oil trains, including mandates for phasing out old tank cars, tightening speed limits, improving brake systems, and addressing concerns that oil from North Dakota’s Bakken region is unusually flammable.“People are rightfully demanding quick action to improve safety, communication and emergency preparedness. Just a few days ago we had another derailment and fuel spill in Wisconsin, in addition to all the incidents happening around the nation. “These proposed changes are a good first step, but more work needs to be done to improve rail safety and protect our communities. Slower train speeds and higher tank car standards are a start, but moving forward we need to enhance track inspections, upgrade our train tracks, and process Bakken oil to make it less combustible.“I am continuing to push for community-wide transparency regarding the contents of these trains, so everyone knows exactly what is passing through their neighborhoods. Additionally, I am reaching out to the rail industry to address the issue of rail capacity. As the amount of oil on trains continues to rise, farmers have become increasingly concerned about their ability to transport their commodities and rural electric co-ops wonder about their ability to transport coal.” Background:The DOT’s proposed rulemaking includes enhanced tank car standards (including the phasing out of the DOT-111 tank cars within 2 years), a classification and testing program for mined gases and liquids, and new operational requirements for high-hazard flammable trains, including rail speeds of no more than 40 mph and enhanced braking systems. DOT has opened a 60 day comment period for feedback on the proposed rules. Rep. Kind has been a vocal advocate for improved rail safety in Wisconsin and nationally. In January, he joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to the Federal Railroad Administration and the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) asking for prompt action to improve rail safety. He later sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee that calls for increased funding for rail safety programs. Rep. Kind also introduced a bipartisan amendment passed by the House of Representatives last month to increase funding for the PHMSA’s operational account by $500,000.
07.22.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement after the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals’ unanimous ruling that upholds Affordable Care Act (ACA) premium tax credits in federal health insurance exchanges; earlier today, the DC Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 2-1 against the tax credits. The conflicting rulings create uncertainty for Wisconsinites due to Governor Scott Walker’s decision to allow the federal government, instead of the State, to operate Wisconsin’s exchange: “I applaud the Fourth Circuit’s unanimous ruling today but the fact remains that Governor Walker could eliminate any uncertainty for Wisconsinites by creating a state-based health care exchange to ensure that coverage will remain affordable through premium tax credits, regardless of what any court decides. “Originally, 79,000 Wisconsinites were projected to sign up for coverage during open enrollment. We’ve now had more than 133,000 Wisconsinites enroll in coverage through the health care exchange, and 90% of them qualify for tax credits. Those with tax credits who chose the popular ‘silver’ plans paid an average of only $103 per month.“These are people who now know the security and peace of mind that comes with having health insurance but are facing uncertainty created by Governor Walker and the courts. By working with the Department of Health and Human Services to create a state health insurance Marketplace, Gov. Walker could ensure that consumers don’t lose premium tax credits and their affordable coverage because of future court action. If Gov. Walker fails to act and the Supreme Court decides to eliminate tax credits in the federal insurance Marketplace, premiums for these Wisconsinites are projected to increase by more than 70%.“This all could have been avoided had he set up a state exchange two years ago, but he still has time to correct this mistake.Instead of doing everything he can to take affordable, quality health care coverage away from Wisconsinites, Governor Walker should be working to ensure that no one loses the coverage they currently have.”
07.18.2014	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) sent a letter to United States Attorney General Eric Holder applauding his decision to fight voter disenfranchisement in Wisconsin, specifically Act 23, Wisconsin’s voter identification law. The Members write, “Act 23 is particularly harmful to our constituents because of the disproportionate impact it would have on seniors, students, African Americans, Hispanics and other vulnerable populations who are less likely to possess the forms of ID required under the Act...This law represents a blatant attempt to disenfranchise voters. We are deeply concerned that this law would have a negative impact on individuals’ ability to vote.”The letter continues, “We thank you for your commitment to preserving the right to vote for all Americans, and we ask that you use every tool at your disposal to help us protect the rights of our constituents in Wisconsin.”To read the full letter text, please click here.
07.10.2014	Background:The American Society of Civil Engineers gave U.S. roads an overall grade of “D” on its 2013 report card. Unless Congress acts by the end of the month, the Highway Trust Fund will be depleted, resulting in the delay of more than 100,000 transportation projects and risking up to 700,000 construction jobs. Washington, DC – During a Ways and Means Committee markup today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) called on House Republican leadership to cancel August recess in order to work on a long-term plan for financing the Highway Trust Fund that would shore up our nation’s infrastructure and create hundreds of thousands of construction jobs. Rep. Kind went on to state:“Building a stronger infrastructure and creating good jobs requires a long-term plan. I’m calling for a comprehensive, six-year transportation bill because right now across America we have a workforce ready to step in to rebuild our infrastructure and bolster local economies.“Kicking the can down the road with a ten-month, $10 billion patch would result in uncertainty and unpredictability at the state and local level, and hinder important transportation investments. Our crumbling roads and bridges need rebuilding now, and our economy needs the shot in the arm that these projects would provide with job creation. “If we can’t reach a consensus on a responsible, long-term plan by the end of the month, we should cancel the August recess and stay here until we produce a deal that will rebuild our roads and create hundreds of thousands of jobs in construction over the long term.“Congress has extended this funding 21 times in the last 11 years. Enough is enough: we need a long-term funding solution.”
07.09.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted in support of the Workforce Innovation & Opportunity Act (WIOA), a bill aimed at streamlining and modernizing workforce training programs to prepare our workers to compete in the global economy.“This bill makes important improvements to our workforce training system to help Americans get the skills they need to compete in the global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “This is an important step but Congress must continue to work on closing the skills gap and giving every American worker the best resources and job training possible.”The bill received strong bipartisan support in the U.S. Senate on a vote of 95-3. It updates the workforce system by placing a fresh emphasis on partnerships between businesses and workforce training organizations and overhauls the job training system for young people with disabilities. It also empowers state and local entities to adapt their services to the unique needs and challenges of their regions, and provides accountability by measuring the performance of federally funded programs.Rep. Kind has reached out to Workforce Development Boards in western and central Wisconsin to get their feedback and address their concerns about how to best prepare our workers.“A well-trained workforce, here in Wisconsin and at the national level, is critical to our ability to stay on the cutting edge of innovation and creativity,” concluded Rep. Kind.Rep. Kind is working to build on the momentum of recent congressional action. The pro-growth New Democrat Coalition, chaired by Rep. Kind, has formed an 18-member Workforce Training Working Group to build on the bipartisan efforts in WIOA and coordinate with stakeholders in labor, business, education and workforce development to strengthen our workforce training system. Members of the group, representing every region of the country, will work with their House colleagues and leaders on both sides of the aisle to develop practical solutions for workforce development.
06.27.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) welcomed La Crosse Central High School student Alysha Strangstalien to Washington, DC this week and congratulated her on winning the 18th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest.“Tawni and I look forward to the Congressional Art Contest every year. It’s always an honor to showcase the great talent of our young artists in western and central Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “Alysha is a tremendous talent, and now her work can be enjoyed every day by visitors to the Capitol.”This competition brings together high school artists from throughout Wisconsin’s third congressional district to recognize the tremendous talent of high school art students. In addition to meeting with Rep. Kind, Alysha and her mother attended a reception held in the U.S. Capitol in honor of Congressional Art Contest winners from around the nation.Alysha’s first-place entry, “The Light in the Dark” will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. The second-place work is on display in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while the third and fourth-place works are displayed in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices.All the student artists participating in this year’s contest were honored at a reception held at UW-La Crosse in April. For a complete list of all the winners and honorable mentions in this year’s art competition and a slideshow of all the entries, click here.
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s (D-WI) legislation to promote American manufacturing by reducing the effective tax rate of domestic manufacturers has been introduced as part of the “Make It In America” plan, a pro-growth blueprint consisting of legislation aimed at strengthening manufacturing and creating more manufacturing jobs here in the U.S.“Manufacturing is key to the future economic success of Wisconsin and the entire nation. Investments we make today in our manufacturing sector will pay dividends down the road,” said Rep. Kind. “Reducing the effective tax rate will help manufacturers innovate and grow, so that they keep good-paying manufacturing jobs here at home.”Rep. Kind’s bill, the Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2940), creates a new section of the tax code to promote American manufacturing by reducing the effective tax rate of domestic manufacturers to 20%. This will provide important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring domestically, and those firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth here at home. The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act places a high priority on supporting the stable jobs and sustainable wages the manufacturing sector offers. In Wisconsin, 16% of the private workforce is in manufacturing, well above the national average of 9%.“This bill is a step in the right direction, but we need to continue working on removing barriers to growth and simplifying the tax code in order to keep and create jobs here in Wisconsin” concluded Rep. Kind. “And in fast-growing sectors like high-tech manufacturing, lowering tax rates will provide the boost that our companies need to compete in the global economy.”The Make It In America plan is a unifying agenda designed to support job creation and encourage innovation. Many of the bills included in the plan enjoy support from labor and business leaders, as well as a bipartisan coalition in Congress. Ten Make It In America bills have already been signed into law.
06.16.2014	Washington D.C. – U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) have sent a letter to United States Attorney General Eric Holder asking that the same-sex couples in Wisconsin who have received marriage licenses be recognized for federal purposes.They write, “To date, same-sex couples across Wisconsin have received marriage licenses, and officials in counties throughout the state continue to issue licenses to eligible couples. These loving couples have valid marriage licenses and should receive the same federal recognition that all other married Wisconsin couples currently do.”Following last summer’s U.S. Supreme Court decision in United States v. Windsor, the Department of Justice has led the federal government’s effort to ensure that all lawfully-married same-sex couples have equal access to federal rights and benefits. As a result, couples who had legally married are able to access benefits including federal taxes, immigration, federal employee and service member benefits, and family and medical leave. The letter continues, “Now that Judge Crabb’s decision has allowed many of them to obtain marriage licenses, the federal government should provide Wisconsin’s married same-sex couples with all of these federal benefits now available to them under the law.”The full text of the letter can be found here and below. The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr.The Attorney GeneralU.S. Department of JusticeWashington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder:We write to ask you to formally recognize for all federal purposes the marriages between same-sex couples that have been performed in the State of Wisconsin since a federal district judge invalidated the state’s constitutional amendment barring same-sex marriage on June 6. To date, same-sex couples across Wisconsin have received marriage licenses, and officials in counties throughout the state continue to issue licenses to eligible couples. These loving couples have valid marriage licenses and should receive the same federal recognition that all other married Wisconsin couples currently do. On June 6, U.S. District Court Judge Barbara Crabb ruled that Wisconsin’s constitutional and statutory restrictions on marriage for same-sex couples violate the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses. She did not immediately stay her decision and, within hours, some county clerks opened their doors to same-sex couples seeking to marry. On Friday, Judge Crabb issued a stay of her decision while the state pursues an appeal, thereby suspending further marriages in the interim. Following last summer’s U.S. Supreme Court decision in United States v. Windsor, you have led the federal government’s effort to ensure that all lawfully-married same-sex couples have equal access to federal rights and benefits. As a result, couples who had legally married are finally treated equally and are able to access: · the ability to sponsor a foreign spouse for legal residency in the United States;· health, workers compensation, retirement and other benefits for the spouse of a federal employee;· health benefits, spousal ID cards, housing allowances and on-base support services for the spouse of a service member;· joint federal income tax filings, as well as spousal exemptions from federal taxation of gifts, inheritances and the value of employer-provided spousal health coverage;· unpaid family and medical leave to care for an ill spouse;· and hundreds of other rights and benefits. However, until last week, same-sex couples in Wisconsin were unable to receive these benefits because they could not lawfully marry. Now that Judge Crabb’s decision has allowed many of them to obtain marriage licenses, the federal government should provide Wisconsin’s married same-sex couples with all of these federal benefits now available to them under the law. Earlier this year, you made clear that couples who married in Utah and Michigan after federal judges struck down those states’ bans are entitled to full federal recognition. We are grateful for this tremendous leadership on behalf of fairness and equality. We ask that you similarly declare that those same-sex couples who married in Wisconsin since the June 6 decision are equally entitled to the federal benefits they deserve. Sincerely, Tammy Baldwin Mark PocanU.S. Senator Member of Congress Gwen Moore Ron KindMember of Congress Member of Congress
06.13.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Dave Reichert (R-WA), along with six other original cosponsors, introduced a bill (H.R. 4837) to encourage the creation of employee-owned businesses through S Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plans (S ESOPs). S ESOPs are a proven tool for building strong, employee-owned businesses and providing sound retirement security for those employees. “This bill empowers companies to become employee-owned, create new employee-owners, and provide retirement security to more American workers,” said Rep. Kind. “Growing our economy and adding jobs is a priority and employee-ownership is a proven model to do just that.”“This legislation gives employees ownership over their work and their retirement,” said Rep. Reichert. “It is important that our nation’s workers feel confident that a financially secure future awaits them and there is no better way to do that than allow them a stake in their companies and provide meaningful retirement accounts. Giving them this confidence can only help our economy, incentivizing workers and leading to economic growth and job creation.”H.R. 4837 includes provisions to encourage owners of S Corporations to sell their stock to an ESOP, expand financing opportunities for S Corporation ESOPs, provide technical assistance for companies that may be interested in forming an S Corporation ESOP, and ensure that small businesses that become ESOPs retain their Small Business Association certification. Reps. Kind and Reichert are supported in their efforts by original cosponsors Reps. Paulsen (R-MN), Blumenauer (D-OR), Tiberi (R-OH), Neal (D-MA), Boustany (R-LA), and Pascrell (D-NJ).
06.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) led a group of 14 Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama today, calling for the creation of a Blue Ribbon Commission to improve care delivery at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and investigate allegations that some VA personnel covered up long wait times for veterans seeking care.“We’ve heard reports of long wait times, secret lists and manipulation of data, all of which are unacceptable when it comes to caring for our veterans. A Blue Ribbon Commission, consisting of people with military backgrounds and firsthand experience working with veterans and their families, is needed to gather the facts and ensure that none of these problems happen again,” said Rep. Kind. “With the VA transitioning to new leadership, now more than ever it’s important that there be independent, bipartisan oversight to ensure that problems are corrected and bad actors are held to account.”Members co-signing the letter include Wisconsin Rep. Mark Pocan and a broad array of representatives from across the country.The letter suggests a number of proven leaders for inclusion on the commission. General Colin Powell and former Senators Bob Dole, Jim Webb, and Max Cleland would be ideal choices, as well as the first female four-star General Ann Dunwoody, General Wesley Clark, and former Secretary of the Navy, Senator John Warner.Rep. Kind is taking additional proactive steps to address potential problems at the VA. He and his staff have been reaching out to VA personnel across the state in an effort to identify any issues that care providers or veterans may be experiencing. This week, he voted for a bill that requires the VA to offer care through civilian doctors if a veteran encounters long wait times or lives more than 40 miles from a VA facility, and he recently voted for a bill making it easier for the department secretary to fire senior officials for poor performance.A copy of the letter can read here.
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Tim Walz (D-MN) celebrated the recent news that the entire Mississippi River has been designated a Critical Conservation Area under the farm bill’s new Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP). Reps. Kind and Walz sent a letter last month to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack requesting the designation.“Designating the Mississippi Basin as part of the RCPP is great news for both the economy and the ecology of the region,” said Representative Kind. “This will bolster our farm economy and give conservation groups the tools they need to continue preserving and protecting this indispensible natural resource.”“The Mississippi River is the lifeline for our farming communities and the foundation for a healthy and robust regional ecosystem,” Representative Walz said. “This designation will benefit farmer and sportsman alike as we work together to protect and enhance the Mississippi River Basin.” Groups eligible for RCPP funding include private companies, local and tribal governments, universities, non-profit organizations and others partnering with agricultural and conservation organizations. This new designation would build on previous Congressionally-authorized USDA conservation programs to make voluntary assistance available to farmers and would not provide the basis for new environmental studies or regulations.USDA’s $1.2 billion in funding over the course of the five-year program can leverage an additional $1.2 billion from partners, totaling $2.4 billion for conservation. In the first year alone, $400 million in USDA funding is available. The RCPP will also help create jobs in Mississippi River basin communities. Conservation efforts require investments in new infrastructure, which puts engineers, contractors and scientists on the job. A National Fish and Wildlife Foundation study found that conservation activities supported more than 660,000 jobs in the U.S. last year.A copy of the letter sent by Reps. Kind and Walz can be read here.
06.09.2014	Commends President for Prioritizing Student Loan Debt CrisisWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) commended President Obama today, after the President announced steps his administration will take to address student loan debt by capping monthly payments for federal student loans. Congressman Kind has been fighting for congressional action on his Student Loan Debt Action Plan, aimed at making college more affordable for student loan borrowers and their families.“Student loan debt in America is at a crisis point, and I commend the President for doing what he can to fix this problem. At more than $1 trillion nationally, student loan debt is higher than credit card debt and second only to mortgage debt,” said Rep. Kind. “College grads in Wisconsin enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt on average, creating a huge financial strain that can last for years. More than ever, we have an immediate need to reform student loan repayment programs so that students aren’t punished for pursuing higher education.”Rep. Kind recently introduced a detailed, comprehensive strategy to address the student loan debt crisis, consisting of five measures helping middle-class families afford college:·Steer any profits generated by federal student loan programs back into Pell Grant programs, ensuring that the federal government isn’t making a profit from students.·Allow people to refinance their student loans whenever borrowing rates are reduced (much like homeowners are able to refinance their mortgages), as proposed in a bill authored by Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI) that would help 40 million Americans pay off their debt.·Increase the maximum tax deduction allowed for student loan interest from $2,500 to $5,000 for individuals and $10,000 for married couples filing jointly.·Match loan payments to a borrower’s earnings, as proposed in a bill introduced by Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) that would withhold student loan payments from paychecks, and then adjust the loan payments based on the borrower’s earnings.·Ensure that interest rates on student loans match the same interest rates that the big banks on Wall Street receive from the Federal Reserve.To read the full Student Loan Debt Action Plan, click here.
06.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives passed a bipartisan amendment today, introduced by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Tim Griffin (R-AR), and Tim Walz (D-MN), to the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill aimed at improving rail and pipeline safety. The amendment would increase funding to the Pipeline & Hazardous Materials Safety Administration’s (PHMSA) operational account by $500,000.“As we’ve seen in recent train derailments and fuel spills, we need to address the safety of our pipelines and railroads immediately,” said Rep. Kind. “As the amount of oil moving through Wisconsin on trains continues to increase, so does the risk associated with tank cars. We have a system in place to monitor the transport of fuel, but without adequate funding it is very difficult for our inspectors to do their jobs.”Earlier this year, PHMSA fined three oil companies for misclassifying hazardous materials found during its “Bakken blitz” inspections which focused on the transport of Bakken crude oil. The funding secured in Rep. Kind’s amendment would be steered toward hiring more inspectors who would carry out these types of investigations.Rep. Kind has been leading the fight for improved rail safety in Wisconsin and across the U.S. In January of this year, Rep. Kind joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to the Federal Railroad Administration and the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration asking for prompt action to improve rail safety. It called for a review of existing hazmat safety rules, crash testing of newer tank cars voluntarily built to higher standards, and the adoption of the National Transportation Safety Board’s most recent recommendations to improve rail safety. He later sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee that calls for increased funding for rail safety programs.Rep. Kind has also been outspoken about the need for increased transparency as to what is being shipped by train, to ensure that the community at large is in the loop about what’s being carried through our neighborhoods.
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement regarding the overturning of Wisconsin’s same-sex marriage ban:“This decision is an important step toward full equality for all Wisconsinites. If two people want to make a lifetime commitment to love and care for one another, then the government shouldn't stand in the way. History has repeatedly shown us that discrimination never works.“Tawni and I have been married for 19 years and we’re both stronger people because we love and support each other. In Wisconsin, the joys of marriage should be possible for everyone.”
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced today that he is returning $56,460.12 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the deficit. Rep. Kind has donated a portion of his congressional budget every year since taking office, for a grand total of $1.5 million returned to taxpayers.“I am always looking for ways to save taxpayer dollars, starting right here in my Congressional office where I can manage how these dollars are spent,” said Rep. Kind. “Our office budget was reduced by 8.2% last year as part of across-the-board budget cuts, but like every year, I am still returning taxpayer dollars to the Treasury.”Overall, congressional office budgets have been have been cut by 16% since FY2010.In addition to his annual budget givebacks, Rep. Kind is a leading voice for fiscal responsibility in Congress. He has consistently opposed the automatic cost-of-living increase for Members of Congress, and worked to reform the tax code to make sure that everyone pays their fair share. He’s also pushing to reform spending in three key areas: rising health care costs, defense spending and outdated farm subsidy programs that benefita handful of large agribusinesses. “Wisconsinites know the value of a dollar, and want to see the tough decisions get made to put our budget back on track,” concluded Rep. Kind. “We need to overhaul our spending policies and pay down the debt so that our children and grandchildren aren’t stuck with our unpaid bills.”
05.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement in response to the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki:“Secretary Shinseki’s resignation does not solve the systemic problems that we are seeing at the VA. These problems have been building for years.“The standard should always be what is in the best interests of our veterans. It was increasingly clear that Secretary Shinseki was becoming more of a distraction rather than the answer to solve the problems with our VA health care system.“There is a lot of work that needs to be done to ensure that our veterans receive the care and treatment that they deserve. Our nation’s contract with our veterans is a solemn obligation that must be met. This will not be easy, nor will it be cheap but it must be done.“Sec. Shinseki was wounded in Vietnam, served as Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army, and had successes at the VA from improving access to PTSD treatment to reducing the number of homeless veterans. We thank him for his service to our country.” -30-
05.27.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is calling for the creation of a Blue Ribbon commission to improve care delivery at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and investigate allegations that some VA personnel covered up long wait times for veterans seeking care.“Long wait times for care can never be the norm for our veterans. And if any efforts were made to conceal the extent of the problem, those responsible need to be held accountable immediately,” said Rep. Kind. “Forming an independent, bipartisan commission would bring needed urgency to this problem. Leaders with military backgrounds and firsthand experience working with veterans and their families, such as General Colin Powell and former Senators Bob Dole, Jim Webb and Max Cleland would be ideal choices to lead this effort. The VA was right to launch an audit of its own services, but much more needs to be done.”Rep. Kind is taking additional proactive steps to address potential problems at the VA. He and his staff are reaching out to VA personnel across the state in an effort to identify any issues that care providers or veterans may be experiencing. Additionally, Rep. Kind voted for the VA Management Accountability Act of 2014 which makes it easier for the department secretary to fire senior officials for poor performance.General Colin Powellis a retired four-star Army General who served as Secretary of State under President George W. Bush; former Senator Bob Dole served in the Army in WWII and was a Republican U.S. Senator from Kansas; former Senator Jim Webb fought in the Marines during the Vietnam War, and later served as Secretary of the Navy during the Reagan Administration before becoming a Democratic U.S. Senator from Virginia; former Senator Max Cleland fought in the Army during the Vietnam War, later leading the VA during the Carter Administration before serving as a Democratic U.S. Senator from Georgia.
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement today after voting in favor of the USA FREEDOM Act, a bipartisan bill sponsored by Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) that seeks to modify domestic surveillance authorities by ending the government’s bulk collection and storage of business records, including telephone “metadata.” The legislation would require that the government obtain pre-approval from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Court to conduct a search of call records for targeted phone numbers on a case-by-case basis, except in an emergency:“This legislation is a positive step toward ensuring privacy for American citizens. It will end bulk data collection by the National Security Agency but stillensure that law enforcement and intelligence officials have the authority needed to protect the homeland.“As a former prosecutor, I have been an advocate for strong judicial oversight of any program that involves the privacy rights of American citizens – lack of strong judicial and congressional oversight was the reason why I voted against reauthorization of the Patriot Act a few years ago. We need all three branches of our government involved to prevent the overreach of any one branch. This legislation helps restore that needed balance.”
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement today after voting against the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (H.R. 4435):“This legislation misses the mark in three areas. It doesn’t reform our military force structure to meet present-day needs and budget realities, which ultimately weakens troop readiness.“It lacks meaningful procurement reform, keeping us on the path of fiscal irresponsibility as we continue spending money on outdated weapons programs that the Pentagon doesn’t even want. According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), weapons programs are $300 billion over budget.“The bill also eliminates the biodiesel program from the military, making us more dependent on foreign oil. In light of unrest in places like Ukraine, it doesn’t make sense from an economic or security standpoint to make ourselves more dependent on foreign energy sources. It’s a shame that a few people opposed to biodiesel for political reasons were able to stand in the way of increasing our energy independence.”
05.21.2014	Healthy Kids Outdoors Act Will Broaden Support for Local Programs to Improve Physical, Mental HealthWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Senator Mark Udall (D-CO) today reintroduced their common-sense plan to help children connect with healthy, active, outdoor lifestyles. The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act helps combat childhood obesity by giving kids better access to outdoor activities through support for local, state and federal initiatives."Young people today spend less time engaged in outdoor activity than any other generation in history, which takes a serious physical and mental toll on them at a critical time in their development," Rep. Kind said. "This bill provides tools for our state and local leaders to find new opportunities to promote active, healthy outdoor lifestyles to our kids in Wisconsin and across the nation. And by starting early in life, young people are more likely to care for their health and their natural surroundings as adults who will then pass those values on to future generations.""Coloradans know our mountains, parks and open spaces are essential to our special way of life. But as study after study shows childhood obesity rates are increasing, we must do more to connect our kids with opportunities for outdoor adventure," Sen. Udall said. "The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act supports local initiatives across the United States to ensure our kids everywhere have access to outdoor recreational opportunities and they can reap the numerous benefits of an active lifestyle."The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act provides incentives for states to develop action plans to connect children and families to the great outdoors. The proposal also would create a national strategy to increase outdoor activity and, through coordination with federal and local partners, further identify the health, conservation and other benefits of spending time outdoors.The Healthy Kids Outdoors Act is supported by the Outdoors Alliance for Kids, National Wildlife Federation, Sierra Club, Izaak Walton League of America and YMCA of the USA.-30-
05.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today in support of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Management Accountability Act of 2014, to help ensure that the VA serves our veterans in the most effective and efficient manner possible.“The VA serves a truly noble purpose: to serve and care for our men and women in uniform. That’s what makes the recent reports of failures at the VA so disturbing,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s absolutely critical that the Department performs its duties at the highest level. This bill is a positive step forward, but we need to keep working to ensure that every veteran gets the care he or she deserves.”The bill, H.R. 4031, authorizes the VA Secretary to fire any individual from “Senior Executive Service” at the VA, if his or herperformance warrants removal. It also requires the VA Secretary to notify the House and Senate Veterans' Affairs committees within 30 days following a dismissal.Rep. Kind is also taking proactive steps on behalf of veterans in Wisconsin. He and his staff are reaching out to VA clinic staff across the state for updates on care backlogs or any other obstacles that may exist in their delivery of care, in an effort to identify any issues that providers or veterans may be experiencing.“None of the outrageous delays that some veterans have been subjected to have been reported in Wisconsin, but I’m staying in touch with VA clinics and veterans around the district to make sure that we don’t hear stories like the ones we’ve been hearing from other states,” concluded Rep. Kind.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Allyson Y. Schwartz (D-PA) and Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT) introduced the Social Security and Marriage Equality (SAME) Act, which would amend the Social Security Act to ensure that all same-sex spouses receive equal treatment when applying for Social Security benefits regardless of which state they live in.“The lifetime commitment to love and care for one another embodied in the bond of marriage doesn’t change from state to state. No matter where a legally married couple chooses to live, every individual should have the comfort of knowing that their union will be treated equally under the law,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “The peace of mind and economic security provided by Social Security spousal benefits should be enjoyed by every married couple who pays into the system. This is an issue of fundamental fairness, and I’m proud to help lead this bipartisan effort toward greater equality for every American citizen.”“Couples, regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation, should not be denied the federal benefits they deserve just because their state of domicile does not recognize their marriage,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “The quest for truly equal rights has been the cornerstone of our nation since its founding and we must continue that proud tradition by ensuring that same-sex couples are not disenfranchised by a circumstance of residence.”Rep. Allyson Y. Schwartz said, “All legally married couples deserve equal treatment under our nation’s laws, regardless of their sexual orientation, where they live or where they took their vows. It is inexcusable that the federal government continues to withhold Social Security benefits that legally married same-sex couples have earned. I will keep fighting to ensure all loving, committed same-sex couples receive the same federal benefits and protections that apply to other married couples and their families."Rep. Elizabeth H. Esty said, “Marriage equality is personal for many American families, including my own. A few years ago, I was thrilled when my brother married his long-time partner—something they had previously been denied the right to do. While we’ve taken steps toward a more inclusive, more equal future, there is still work to do. That’s why I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing the SAME Act to ensure that all couples – regardless of their sexual orientation and regardless of the state in which they live - receive the Social Security benefits they‘ve earned after lifetimes of hard work.”“Every legally married, same-sex couple deserves to have their marriage fully recognized by the federal government regardless of where they live or what federal benefits they have earned,”said David Stacy, Government Affairs Director, Human Rights Campaign. “We are grateful to Reps. Ron Kind, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Allyson Schwartz and Elizabeth Esty for bringing attention to the essential protections provided by Social Security. Their strong, passionate and consistent leadership is moving us closer to an America where every citizen is treated equally regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.”“The SAME Act will provide access to thousands of married same-sex couples in states like Wisconsin where marriage equality is not yet reality,” stated Katie Belanger, President & CEO of Fair Wisconsin, the statewide LGBT education and advocacy organization. “I commend the bold leadership demonstrated by our own Congressman Kind, as well as the bipartisan group of Congressional leaders who have introduced this critical bill.”In the Supreme Court case United States v. Windsor of 2013, the Court overturned Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act and found that the federal government may not create two classes of marriage. But the Windsor decision offered minimal guidance as to the status of legally married couples who live in states that do not recognize same-sex marriages. That lack of guidance is having a major economic and emotional impact on those who lose a spouse in a same-sex marriage.The Social Security Act determines eligibility for spousal benefits by place of residence. As a result, holds are being placed on applications for Social Security benefits for legally married same-sex spouses who live in states that do not recognize their marriages.The SAME Act (H.R. 4664) would serve as a roadmap for the Social Security Administration (SSA) to follow, to ensure that all legal marriages are recognized equally. The bill would override current SSA policy that requires a spouse to reside in a state that recognizes same-sex marriage in order to be eligible for Social Security spousal benefits, and would provide full spousal benefits to all citizens who were legally married in the United States or in another country.Senators Patty Murray (D-WA), Mark Udall (D-CO) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) are leading companion legislation in the U.S. Senate.-30-
05.15.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Tim Walz (D-MN) sent a letter this week to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Tom Vilsack requesting that he designate the entire Mississippi River as a Critical Conservation Area under the farm bill’s new Regional Conservation Partnership Program (RCPP).“Agricultural production in the Mississippi River Basin is an integral part of both the regional and national economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Conservation efforts are critical to maintaining agricultural output. This new designation would give a boost to farmers and others whose livelihoods depend on our natural resources, helping them tackle a wide range of conservation challenges.”Wetland management, habitat preservation, flood control, irrigation and erosion prevention are critical issues facing farmers along the Mississippi River Basin. Through cooperative efforts at the local and regional levels, many of these concerns are being addressed, but the RCPP would provide an important opportunity for conservation organizations to leverage USDA’s resources to most effectively meet their goals.The Mississippi River meets the criteria of having water quality and quantity concerns, and of furthering the conservation use of natural resources on a regional scale. This new designation would build on previous Congressionally-authorized USDA conservation programs to make voluntary assistance available to farmers and would not provide the basis for new environmental regulations or studies.A copy of the letter can be read here.
05.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement on the passing of former Gov. Patrick Lucey:“Born and raised in western Wisconsin, Governor Lucey was a dedicated public servant who put Wisconsin first. From creating the modern UW system to fighting for civil rights, the impact that Governor Lucey’s leadership had on our state will be felt for generations to come. And the beautiful stretch of highway along the Mississippi River that bears his name is a testament to his commitment to Wisconsin’s natural wonders.Our thoughts and prayers are with Governor Lucey’s family, as we all reflect on his great legacy.”
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement after today’s vote to permanently extend the research and development (R&D) tax credit, costing nearly $156 billion over 10 years:“I strongly support investments in research and development. I have a long record of supporting American innovation to create high-skilled jobs and bolster productivity. But the policy behind research and development is not the problem with this legislation.“The problem lies with creating permanent tax policies without offsetting the cost. Adding almost $156 billion to the national deficit is not good for our long-term economic growth and not fair to the taxpayers who foot the bill.“We shouldn’t enact permanent policy—even good policy— without committing to budgetary offsets to pay for the policy. And we can easily find those offsets by further reining in health care costs, cutting unnecessary defense projects the Pentagon doesn’t even want, or eliminating the wasteful subsidies in our farm policy.“The House majority pretends to care about fiscal responsibility, but they aren’t willing to do the hard work of actually making tough budget decisions. The Republican budget that they passed just a few weeks ago called for offsets to any permanent extensions to the tax code, yet they are already violating that pledge. We had a system in place in the 1990s to pay for new spending, but under Republican control those rules were thrown out the window. Now they are reverting back to old habits, and our children will be paying the bill.”Last night, Rep. Kind debated this bill on the floor of the House of Representatives, speaking about the need for fiscal responsibility. The video of his speech can be found here.
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) praised the recent Department of Transportation (DOT) decision requiring railroads to notify local emergency responders whenever oil shipments travel through their states and urging railroads to use safer rail cars to ship oil.“Across Wisconsin and in communities across the nation, more and more attention is being paid to rail safety and the impact of derailments and fuel spills,” said Rep. Kind.“The amount of crude oil moving through Wisconsin on trains continues to increase, and I commend the DOT for taking this step forward. Now we need to find ways to get this information out to the community at large, to make sure everyone is in the loop about what’s being shipped through our neighborhoods.”The emergency order and safety advisory was sent to all railroads, requiring them to take new safety precautions when transporting Bakken crude oil. It states that trains carrying more than one million gallons of the oil (equal to about 35 tank cars) are required to give detailed information about the shipments to the relevant state emergency commissions within 30 days of the emergency order. The information required includes the number of trains on the rails each week and which counties each train will pass through. Previously, no such requirement existed.In addition to notifying local first responders about crude shipments, the railroads are also being urged to use cars with “the highest level of integrity in their fleet” when shipping the oil.“Several recent incidents involving train derailments and fuel spills, including a recent diesel spill in southeastern Wisconsin, have raised concerns that more preparation and communication is needed to keep communities safe,” concluded Rep. Kind. “This emergency order is a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done to reduce the occurrence and minimize the impact of derailments.”
05.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted in favor of the 2015 Military Construction-VA Appropriations Act to honor our nation’s commitment to veterans and strengthen our military.“This bipartisan bill provides necessary funding to meet the needs of servicemen and women and continue to support our veterans,” said Rep. Kind. “Of particular importance to me, the bill takes several steps to reduce the veterans’ claims backlog. Our wounded warriors deserve a robust and efficient VA medical system that meets their needs in a timely fashion. This bill is a positive step toward meeting that goal, but more work remains to be done.”The bill, H.R. 4486, provides $173.3 million for the Veterans Benefit Management System and an additional $20 million to the Veterans Benefit Administration for digital scanning of old paper files, the centralized mail initiative, and staff overtime. It also requires the VA to continue to provide monthly reports on claims processing and remediation efforts for underperforming regional offices.Additionally, the bill supports investments in military infrastructure, housing, and services for men and women in our armed forces and their families.
04.24.2014	Congressman Kind has introduced a plan consisting of five simple and workable options to ease the burden on current and future student loan borrowers and their families.
04.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) held a press conference today at UW-Eau Claire to roll out his new Student Loan Debt Action Plan, consisting of five simple and workable options to ease the burden on current and future student loan borrowers and their families.“Wisconsin students graduate from college and enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt on average, creating a huge financial strain that can last for years,” said Rep. Kind. “Student loan debt has surpassed $1 trillion nationally, which is higher than credit card debt and second only to homeowner mortgage debt. More than ever, we have an immediate need to reform student loan repayment programs so that students aren’t punished for seeking higher education.”Rep. Kind was joined at the press conference by Saul Newton, a U.S. Army veteran and Wisconsin college student pursuing a degree in communications, and Rachel Steuer,a social worker in the Eau Claire area, both of whom have been saddled with student loan debt. Scot Ross, executive director of the non-profit One Wisconsin Now, discussed the impact of student loan debt in the state and joined the call for immediate action.Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District is home to fourteen colleges and universities and more than 71,000 undergraduate students. In all, 68 percent of Wisconsin students carry student loan debt.To read Rep. Kind’s Student Loan Debt Action Plan, click here.
04.21.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, announced the winners of the 18th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest.“The Congressional Art Contest is always a highlight of the year for Tawni and me,” said Rep. Kind. “There is so much artistic talent to be found in western and central Wisconsin, and it’s an honor for us to showcase the amazing work of some of our best young artists.”The winners are:1st PlaceAlysha Strangstalien, Central High School“The Light in the Dark” 2nd PlaceMegan Sandheinrich, Central High School“I was Looking for a Home but all I Found was a ‘Brick Wall’” 3rd PlaceKong Meng Xiong, Logan High School“You Can’t Escape the Past” 4th PlaceIndia Hoeppner, Logan High School“Life’s Hands” Honorable MentionsPayton Brown, Central High School“Rare Bones” Alexandra Burelbach, Central High School“Enduring Sound” Kendra Garbers, Central High School“Beauty and Nature” Sara Harris, La Farge High School“Birthday Girl Amber Herrick, Augusta High School“Veggies from the Pen” Emily Jeffers, La Farge High School“In the Valley” Erin Petersen, Logan High School“ABC’s of Being Fine” Miranda Smith, Logan High School “Stay Beautiful” Andie West, La Farge High School“At the Cabin” Laura Wiedmann, La Farge High School“Three Flying Birds” The first-place entry, “The Light in the Dark” by Central High School’s Alysha Strangstalien, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second-place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while the third and fourth-place works will be hung in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices.The contest recognizes the artistic talent of our region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western and central Wisconsin.
04.18.2014	See this year's art competition entries. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of our region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western and central Wisconsin.VIDEO=(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KpBdLUh1GQ0&feature=youtu.be)BUTTON=(PLAY VIDEO)
04.15.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) recently introduced H.R. 4453 and 4454, to make permanent two temporary S Corporation tax provisions from legislation introduced earlier this Congress that were also included in the 2014 comprehensive tax reform discussion draft.“With nearly 60,000 S Corporations in Wisconsin, supporting these job creators is a key priority of mine as I work to strengthen the economy in Wisconsin and across the country,” said Rep. Kind. “These bipartisan bills bring stability, simplicity and fairness to the tax code so S Corporations can continue to provide good jobs and help sustain local communities.”“These are common sense reforms of our current tax code that would help proven job creators – S Corporations – to access the capital they need to grow, compete nationally and globally, and get Americans back to work,” said Rep. Reichert. “I am proud to introduce these bipartisan bills with my colleague Congressman Kind, and I look forward to continuing work towards comprehensive tax reform. Hard working Americans should be able to use the money they earn to provide for their families and enjoy the benefits of their labor, not give it away to their government because of an outdated and overly-burdensome tax code.”The first piece of legislation, H.R. 4454, would make permanent the pre-2014 basis-adjustment rule for S Corporations that make charitable contributions of property, ensuring consistent treatment of charitable contributions between S Corporation shareholders and partners in a partnership. The second piece of legislation, H.R. 4453, would make permanent a reduction of the recognition period for the built-in gains tax on S Corporation appreciated property from ten years to five years. Both of these provisions would be effective for tax years beginning after 2013. The provisions were part of H.R. 892, the S Corporation Modernization Act, which Congressmen Reichert and Kind introduced in February of 2013. This legislation was introduced to reform current, outdated tax law which stifles growth. As a 2011 study revealed, S corporations have a major economic impact on Main Streets across the country – employing more than 31 million Americans or one in four workers in the private sector. “S Corporations are in every community and every industry,” observed Brian Reardon, Executive Director of the S Corporation Association. “Yet these job creators are saddled with rules that date back more than half a century. The provisions in the Reichert-Kind bill will unlock capital for thousands of businesses and encourage S Corporations to make charitable contributions. We strongly support their efforts to make this important relief permanent.”
04.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement in reaction to the news that U.S. Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) will not be a candidate for reelection to Congress:“Congressman Petri is a good friend and a dedicated public servant. He is a strong partner on issues like farm policy reform and economic development, and he's always been committed to fighting for his constituents and Wisconsin. I wish him and his family all the best."
04.10.2014	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement today after voting against the Republican Budget. This unbalanced plan prioritizes huge tax breaks for millionaires and special interests over protecting investments for working families and the safety net for the most vulnerable Americans. “Once again, the Republican majority is pushing a budget plan that proposes devastating cuts to investments in health care, education and economic development while jeopardizing the benefits that millions of Americans rely on. “According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Republican budget takes almost 70 percent of its cuts from programs benefiting our most vulnerable Americans. Pell Grants for low- and moderate-income students are cut by up to $145 billion. The SNAP food assistance program for vulnerable families and children would be cut by $137 billion over the next decade. And Medicaid is turned into a block grant and slashed by $732 billion over the next 10 years, putting nursing home care at risk for millions of seniors and undermining health care for millions of low-income children and people with disabilities. “Even more outrageous is that while our most vulnerable citizens shoulder the burden of the budget’s draconian cuts, those with incomes exceeding $1 million in 2015 would receive a net tax break of over $200,000 on average. “There are much smarter and fairer ways to balance our budget that don’t involve slashing critical programs and investments to pay for tax cuts for the ultra-wealthy.”
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced that President Obama has signed into law a bill that will help charities and small business cooperatives continue to offer high-quality pension plans. The new law, the Cooperative and Small Employer Charity Pension Flexibility Act (H.R. 4275), was authored by Rep. Kind and Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN).“This commonsense legislation, just signed into law by the President, will help charities and cooperatives in Wisconsin and around the country fulfill their pension obligations to current employees and attract new workers,” said Rep. Kind. “This is a concrete step toward ensuring that these pension plans will remain intact and robustly funded, so employees can count on their hard-earned pension benefits being there when they retire."Charities and cooperatives are vital to our communities and neighborhoods, but the design of current pension funding laws, and artificially suppressed interest rates, began to jeopardize the continued impact these entities have in their communities. This law offers a permanent exemption for these groups so that they are not required to fund their pension plans at levels often associated with high-risk plans, despite the fact that these plans have virtually no risk of default.The law received broad bipartisan support in Congress and was endorsed by Christian Schools International, the Jewish Federations of North America, United Way Worldwide, National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Girl Scouts of the USA, National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, UJA–Federation of New York, Inc., Hawkeye Insurance Association, NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association, United Benefits Group, and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the plan will raise $254 million over ten years. H.R. 4275 is the first stand-alone pension legislation signed into law in six years.
04.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) complimented Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Tom Coburn (R-OK) for introducing legislation to rein in wasteful crop insurance subsidies, an effort Rep. Kind continues to lead in the House. Among its many flaws, the Farm Bill passed by Congress earlier this year did virtually nothing to address the bloated crop insurance program.“The need to rein in crop insurance subsidies isn’t going away, which is why I’m continuing to fight for bipartisan reform in the House and why I applaud these Senators for pushing this issue as well,” said Rep. Kind. “Unfortunately, the status quo prevailed in the debate over the last Farm Bill, but Congress can still do the right thing both for taxpayers and family farmers by fixing our crop insurance policies.” Rep. Kind and his home-state colleague Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) authored the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act last year, calling for bold reforms in our crop insurance premium subsidy program to save taxpayer dollars and promote transparency. The AFFIRM Act would save taxpayers $11 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers.While the new Senate bill calls for a limit of $70,000 in crop insurance premium subsidies per individual farm, the AFFIRM Act calls for a tighter cap of $40,000. The AFFIRM Act also eliminates crop insurance premium subsidies for individuals with an adjusted gross income of more than $250,000, and requires more of the administrative and operating costs to be shared by the private companies that offer coverage.“The recent Farm Bill was a huge missed opportunity, and now we’re stuck with a systemin which we have cases of farmers down South getting over $1 million a year in crop insurance subsidies” concluded Rep. Kind. “It’s time to work together in a bipartisan fashion to make crop insurance more cost-effective, transparent and accountable to taxpayers, while maintaining a safety net for farmers who need assistance.”
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement harshly criticizing today’s McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission Supreme Court ruling that removes limits on how much an individual can donate in one election season to various political campaigns and political action committees (PACs):“With this 5-4 decision to remove the limits on the cumulative total that an ultra-wealthy donor can give to candidates and PACs, the Supreme Court is giving even more power and influence to big money campaign contributors at the expense of everyday Americans.“On the heels of the disastrous Citizens United decision, today’s misguided ruling further illustrates the need for Congress to step in and restore some balance to our political process so that the voices of the people can be heard. That’s why I’m fighting to pass comprehensive campaign finance reform legislation called the ‘Government by the People Act’ that would reduce the influence of big money in politics, and make this a government of, by, and for the people.“This bipartisan legislation would give all Wisconsinites a larger voice concerning what happens in Washington, and would shift Washington’s priorities away from powerful special interests. It would provide a counterbalance to the Super PACs that flood the airwaves before an election, offer tax incentives to small-dollar donors, and create a fund to multiply the giving power of small-dollar donors.“Until we can break the current campaign system’s dependence on big money special interests and the wealthy, the priorities of average Americans will not get the attention they deserve.”
04.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement about the House Republican budget proposed today by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI):“The reckless House Republican budget would cut critical investments in health care, education and economic development while jeopardizing the benefits that millions of Americans rely on. Its draconian vision for America leaves seniors, students and working families behind, while protecting perks for the ultra-wealthy and corporations that ship jobs overseas. “Seniors would be asked to pay more for preventive services and prescription drugs, Medicaid would be turned into block grants, and Medicare would be turned into a voucher system for those 55 and younger. The ‘savings’ supposedly found in the plan are only made possible by shifting costs to future seniors.“The plan is rooted in hypocrisy. It relies on the reforms and savings provided by the Affordable Care Act, which this proposal claims to repeal, and which the House majority has voted to repeal or undermine more than 50 times. A responsible budget plan should lower costs by building on the health care delivery system reforms in the Affordable Care Act that pay providers based on the quality and value of care they deliver instead of the number of services performed.“The disastrous economic effects of this proposal would be felt for years to come. Slashing investments in scientific research, innovation, manufacturing, clean energy, and infrastructure would stifle our economy and put America at a global disadvantage.“We need to reduce spending and get our budget deficits under control, but this unbalanced, irresponsible plan would do far more harm than good.”
03.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – The House of Representatives has passed bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Susan Brooks (R-IN) that will help charities and small business cooperatives continue to offer high-quality pension plans, helping ensure that employees can count on their hard-earned pension benefits still being there when they retire. The bill, the Cooperative and Small Employer Charity Pension Flexibility Act (H.R. 4275), is now headed to the President for enactment.“This commonsense fix to the pension system ensures that pension plans maintained by our charities and cooperatives will remain intact and robustly funded,” said Rep. Kind. “It will help these organizations attract new workers and fulfill their pension obligations to current employees, and I look forward to President Obama signing it into law.” Charities and cooperatives are vital to our communities and neighborhoods, but the design of current pension funding laws, and artificially suppressed interest rates, began to impact the continued impact these entities have in their communities. This reform bill offers a permanent exemption for these groups to ensure they are not required to fund their pension plans at levels often associated with high-risk plans, despite the fact that these plans have virtually no risk of default.H.R. 4275 is the first stand-alone pension legislation that Congress has passed in six years. It has already gone directly to the President for his signature, as the Senate unanimously passed identical legislation in January. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the plan will raise $254 million over ten years.The bill received broad bipartisan support in the House and Senate, and has been endorsed by Christian Schools International, the Jewish Federations of North America,United Way Worldwide, National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, Girl Scouts of the USA, National Council of Farmer Cooperatives, UJA–Federation of New York, Inc., Hawkeye Insurance Association, NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association, United Benefits Group, and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.Groups across Wisconsin welcomed the news of the bill’s passage in Congress, and look forward to the positive effect it will have on their businesses and employees."Congressman Kind understands our unique business model and pension plan design and we thank him on behalf of the hundreds of Midwestern cooperative employees who will benefit from this effort,” said William Berg, Dairyland Power Cooperative President and CEO. “His bill recognizes our plans pose virtually no risk of default, and should be treated that way permanently.”“Badgerland Council’s pension expense for the current budget year is $177,000 and we expect the burden to go up to $248,000 in the next fiscal year,” said Margaret L. Henderson, CEO, Girl Scouts of Wisconsin – Badgerland Council. “This legislation would save us up to $70,000 next year alone. Without legislative intervention, Badgerland Council may be forced to make difficult decisions to discontinue and limit services to girls. A reduction in programming means we will be unable to offer as many services and experiences that help Badgerland girls develop courage, confidence and character. The long-term consequences are dire as they diminish Badgerland’s ability to serve all girls who may not be able to participate without financial assistance. While the percentage and total dollars may not seem high compared to the federal budget, it means a lot to a small organization like Girl Scouts of Wisconsin – Badgerland Council.”“As a participant in and a trust committee member of a multiple employer defined benefit pension plan representing rural communications cooperatives and small companies, we applaud Reps. Kind and Brooks for introducing legislation that passed the House today permanently extending the temporary exemption from the Pension Protection Act rules,” said Christy Berger, General Manager/Executive VP of Nelson Telephone Cooperative in Durand, WI. “ This will allow our extremely secure pension plan to continue to provide retirement benefitsto our rural members without being subject to the rules that require funding at a level that would necessitate hundreds of millions of dollars in unwarranted increased pension costs and impede employers from being able to continue to offer this type of benefit.”
03.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) condemns the State Legislature’s passage of an anti-voting rights bill that would limit early voting on weekdays and eliminate early voting on weekends altogether. Rep. Kind is calling on Governor Walker to veto the bill for the sake of the veterans, seniors, minorities, students and disabled individuals who will be affected by this legislation.“Voting rights are under attack in Wisconsin. It is absolutely outrageous that in 2014 we still have politicians who are purposely making it harder for Wisconsinites to vote,” said Rep. Kind. “I urge Governor Walker, in the strongest terms possible, to veto this blatantly partisan effort to disenfranchise fellow Wisconsinites from exercising one of our most fundamental rights.” Early voting provides an easy, convenient option for elderly or disabled Wisconsinites who might otherwise have trouble getting to the polls, and workers or students who may have trouble finding time to vote on Election Day. It also helps reduce overcrowding at polling locations on Election Day.The impact of an early voting ban would fall especially hard on urban areas of the state with large minority populations.“Those who hold public office should be supportive of efforts to increase voter participation, especially for those who may have trouble getting to the polls because of issues like work schedules, lack of transportation or a disability,” concluded Rep. Kind. “Protecting voter rights is essential to our democracy. If Governor Walker refuses to stand up for voting rights, it will be another sad chapter in Wisconsin history written during his tenure.”In 2012, more than half a million Wisconsinites voted early (16.7 percent of all ballots cast).
03.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) commended the U.S. Senate for passing comprehensive legislation designed to end unaffordable flood insurance rate hikes. The bill was passed with broad bipartisan support in the House last week and now heads to the President for his signature.“Last week, I visited with one of the many Wisconsin families affected by the threat of skyrocketing flood insurance rates. After living in their home for 17 years, they were told their rates could suddenly increase sevenfold,” said Rep. Kind. “Fortunately, relief is on the way and I urge the President to sign this bill into law as soon as possible for the sake of homeowners in Wisconsin and across the country.”Joined by a broad bipartisan majority in the U.S. House, Rep. Kind supported the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act last week. Having passed in the Senate with a strong 72-22 bipartisan vote, the bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law.The bill will provide homeowners with clarity and certainty that the cost of their insurance will not force them from their homes, undercut their ability to buy or sell a home, or result in depressed home prices. Additionally, it would bring accountability to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), requiring it to provide Congress with the affordability study that was supposed to be finished almost a year ago. It would also limit yearly premium increases to 15-18 percent.
03.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined the effort to bring the extension of unemployment insurance (UI) benefits to an up-or-down vote in the U.S. House.“The House Majority should have allowed a vote on this long ago because there still aren’t enough jobs out there for everyone who is trying to join the workforce. We need to act right now on their behalf,” said Rep. Kind. “More than 2 million people have now seen their unemployment benefits expire, including 200,000 of our veterans, but the House Majority continues to deny a simple up-or-down vote on extending the program.”To force Congressional action, Rep. Kind signed a “discharge petition” that would require the House to hold a vote on extending UI benefits. This legislative tool can be utilized when a simple majority of members of the House sign the petition.Rep. Kind has called for an extension of UI benefits since late last year when federal unemployment benefits expired for 1.3 million Americans. Last week, the number of Americans affected hit the 2 million mark, including almost 40,000 Wisconsinites.Despite improvements in our economy, the average job hunter in the U.S. needs 8 months to find employment; nationwide there are three unemployed workers available for each job opening.“Allowing unemployment benefits to lapse at all, much less for several months, hurts unemployed workers and the communities they live in,” continued Rep. Kind. “We know that if unemployment benefits aren’t extended, almost 250,000 jobs could be lost due to reduced spending in our local economies. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to sign this petition before any more harm is done.”
03.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) was pleased to announce that the University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire has been awarded a $214,510 grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF).“This funding will help researchers at UW-Eau Claire make important discoveries about plant life that will greatly benefit the agriculture community,” said Rep. Kind. “I strongly support these types of forward-thinking investments in research that keep Wisconsin on the cutting edge of scientific innovation.”The grant will fund studies on the effect of light on plant development, and could reveal important information about plant growth that can be utilized by the agriculture sector. It takes effect June 1st of this year. The majority of work in this project will be conducted by UW-EC undergrads, giving them hands-on research experience that will be invaluable as they pursue graduate degrees or enter the workforce.Created by Congress in 1950, the National Science Foundation is an independent federal agency dedicated to scientific advancement, public health and national prosperity. NSF is responsible for approximately 21 percent of all federally supported basic research conducted in U.S. colleges and universities.A former co-chair of The Information Technology & Innovation Foundation, Rep. Kind is deeply involved in fostering a national innovation agenda that focuses on math and science education, further ensuring America can compete in a 21st Century global economy.
03.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today in favor of the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, comprehensive legislation designed to end unaffordable flood insurance rate hikes.“This bipartisan bill would bring relief to hundreds of thousands of homeowners who are living in flood-prone regions, including many communities in Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “It will help address affordability concerns, bring accountability to FEMA and ensure the stability of the National Flood Insurance Program.”The bill, H.R. 3370, would provide homeowners with clarity and certainty that the cost of their insurance will not force them from their homes, undercut their ability to buy or sell a home, or result in depressed home prices. It also would bring accountability to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), requiring it to provide Congress with the affordability study that was supposed to be finished almost a year ago.It includes a number of important provisions to protect flood insurance policyholders from dramatic rate hikes, such as ending severe increases caused by property sales (and other events), and restoring grandfathered rates for those who built their homes according to code. And for those hit by steep premium increases, the legislation provides financial relief in the form of a refund. Additionally, it would limit yearly premium increases to an average annual increase of 15 percent.Local leaders from flood-prone communities in Wisconsin have expressed their strong support for the legislation. “This bill is an important step toward helping Wisconsin families stay in their homes, safeguarding against sudden rate hikes, and increasing FEMA’s accountability to local communities,” said Doug Kerns, La Crosse’s Certified Floodplain Manager.
03.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement on the situation in Ukraine:"Russia's blatant act of aggression against Ukraine should be opposed and condemned by the international community."I do not foresee, nor would I support, the use of U.S. military force on Russian troops in Ukraine. Russia's invasion goes against international law but does not pose an imminent threat to the security of our country or U.S. citizens abroad. There are, however, diplomatic and economic tools that we should use, along with NATO and other allies in the region, to isolate Russia and make this act of aggression as painful to them as possible."During the Olympics, President Putin tried to demonstrate that Russia is a responsible member of the global community. But these recent tactics in Ukraine indicate that Russia has little respect for that community."
02.27.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against a partisan bill (H.R. 3193) aimed at weakening the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an agency dedicated to protecting American consumers and safeguarding against financial abuses.“The CFPB has a proven record of success in protecting families and small businesses from abuses in the financial marketplace, and ensuring that bank loans, mortgages, and credit card terms are affordable and transparent,” said Rep. Kind. “This partisan bill was a blatant attempt to undermine the CFPB, opening the door to another financial crisis where Main Street loses jobs thanks to Wall Street recklessness.”The CFPB, the nation’s first-ever independent consumer watchdog andthe only financial regulator focused exclusively on consumer protection has had to endure ideological attacks since its creation. Despite these attacks, the CFPB consistently fulfilled its mission to curb abuses by big banks, payday lenders, debt collectors, credit card companies, and other financial institutions.Today’s anti-consumer legislation, introduced by Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI), would dramatically interfere with the CFPB's ability to protect consumer interests and make consumer financial markets operate more efficiently. The bill weakens the CFPB’s strength and independence by subjecting it to the appropriations process in Congress, effectively defunding the agency. Additionally, it would replace the CFPB’s Director with a five-person commission, striking at its ability to act quickly and effectively, and would make it easier for other banking regulators to overturn the CFPB’s rules.“I had hoped that some of my colleagues in Congress would have learned from the mistakes of the past that led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression,” concluded Rep. Kind. “Having commonsense rules in place to protect consumers from financial abuses, and making sure those rules are enforced, should not be partisan issues.”Since its creation in 2010, the CFPB has created safer national mortgage standards, improved disclosure requirements so that consumers are better informed, secured more than $3 billion for almost 10 million consumers who were impacted by financial abuses, and created a national consumer complaint center that has handled nearly 270,000 consumer complaints.
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) welcomed the news that health care fraud enforcement efforts recouped a record $4.3 billion in FY2013, thanks to new strategies and tools granted by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). This brings the total amount recovered over the last five years to $19.2 billion.“The Affordable Care Act provides new enforcement tools to combat health care scams and put fraudsters out of business,” said Rep. Kind. “The recovery of $4.3 billion last year alone is great news for the American taxpayer, and it’s another example of how health care reform is delivering results.”The report details 1,013 new fraud investigations and 1,083 new civil investigations in FY2013. More than 700 people were convicted, with prison sentences averaging longer than 4 years.The ACA implemented new tools including provider screening and enrollment systems that make it harder for criminals to submit fraudulent claims and get paid. The $4.3 billion recovered last year is more than double the amount that was recovered in 2008.This recovery is part of a broader effort started in 1997 throughthe Health Care Fraud and Abuse Control Program, which has recovered almost $30 billion nationally since its creation. A collaboration between the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Justice, the program targets individuals and companies who attempt to cheat the health care system (especially Medicare and Medicaid). In the last three years, more than $8 has been recovered for every $1 spent on enforcement.“I’ve always said that we need to learn from what works in the ACA and fix what doesn’t,” concluded Rep. Kind. “These anti-fraud tools are working, and have proven to be a wise investment for taxpayers.”The money recovered is returned to the Medicare Trust Funds and the U.S. Treasury.
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) supported legislation today that will repeal the cuts made to military retiree benefits that were included in last month’s budget package.“I’m very pleased to see Congress come together, in a bipartisan fashion, to restore the proposed cuts to benefits for military retirees,” said Rep. Kind. “We cannot balance the budget on the backs of our veterans, who have sacrificed so much in defense of our country.”The budget deal passed earlier this year included a provision making harmful cuts to veterans’ Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) benefits, a provision that should never have been included in the budget package. It modifies the annual COLA for working-age military retirees, for a total cut of $6 billion. The cuts, which were included in the Budget at the insistence of Budget Chair Paul Ryan (R-WI), would go into effect in December of next year.“I was opposed to the COLA cuts being included in the budget in the first place. There are plenty of other areas we can look to for cuts, such as in the just-passed Farm Bill. It contained millions in taxpayer subsidies to Brazilian cotton farmers and outrageous giveaways to billionaires who aren’t even farmers,” concluded Rep. Kind.
02.07.2014	Washington, DC– Marking a significant shift in American agriculture practices, the Farm Bill signed into law today included new provisions to promote organic farming, bringing much of the industry in line with conventional farming.“Thanks to the bipartisan efforts of the Organic Caucus, this Farm Bill includes funding for a number of important programs for the fast-growing organic farming sector,” said Rep. Kind, a Caucus co-chair. “I’m pleased we were able to reach bipartisan agreement on the importance of investing in the promise of organic agriculture and helping to meet the specific needs of our organic farmers.”Rep. Kind’s fellow co-chairs of the bipartisan House Organic Caucus, including Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA) and Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) applauded the provisions, which include:*New crop insurance provision: Under the bill, organic producers will be able to insure crops at prices consistent with their retail value, which will ensure organic farmers are not disproportionately affected in case of a crop failure or other problem.*Cost-share measure for farmers transitioning to organic agriculture:The Cost-Share Program assists small farmers and handlers in offsetting a portion of the costs of annual certification. Obtaining organic certification can be expensive for small producers and without this assistance, being certified organic would be unattainable for many farmers and handlers. The final bill signed into law included renewal of this key program.*Money for research, technological upgrades and market reporting:Organic farmers face many challenges that can’t be addressed through research geared towards conventional crops. Increased funding for the Organic Agriculture Research and Extension Initiative (OREI) will help meet the growing needs of the organic community. Additionally, the Organic Production Market and Data Initiative (ODI) collects information vital to maintaining stable markets, creating risk management tools, and increasing exports. In addition, the National Organic Coalition praised the House Organic Caucus for its work.“The House Organic Caucus has been an absolutely essential tool under the leadership of Representatives Defazio, Kind, Farr, and Hanna in educating members of Congress about the importance of organic policies and programs,” said Steve Etka, Legislative Director for the National Organic Coalition. “Without the caucus, these positive Farm Bill outcomes would not have been possible.”
02.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for extending the hours-of-service waiver for trucks delivering propane through March 1, 2014. Last week, Rep. Kind led the Wisconsin delegation insending a letter to President Obama today urging him to take immediate action to address the current propane crisis facing Wisconsin.“This extension is welcome news for Wisconsin as we endure this ongoing propane crisis,” said Rep. Kind. “But more action needs to be taken to ease the pain caused by the propane shortage and I’ll continue to push the President to do more until this gets resolved, and also lay out a plan to ensure this doesn’t happen again.”The DOT’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration announced that extensions of the State Emergency Declarations for the Midwest, Western, Southern, and Eastern regions of the country will be issued. These regional declarations will provide relief for commercial vehicle operations while providing assistance supporting the delivery of propane during the emergency. Nearly 250,000 residents and countless businesses throughout Wisconsin are experiencing a severe propane crisis this winter, preventing families from keeping their homes warm during the coldest months of the year. The price of propane in Wisconsin has risen to the unprecedented level of $6 per gallon in some parts of the state; average rates were $1.50 per gallon at this time last year.
02.05.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today cosponsored comprehensive campaign finance reform legislation called the “Government by the People Act,” aimed at reducing the influence of big money in politics and government while empowering everyday Americans.“We need concrete reforms to get big money out of politics and make this a government of, by, and for the people,” said Rep. Kind. “This campaign finance reform legislation will help all Wisconsinites have a bigger say on what gets decided in Washington, and shift Washington’s priorities away from powerful special interests to what everyday people care about.”The legislation aims to amplify the voice of everyday citizens, lessen the influence of big-money donors, and hold Congress accountable to the American people. This is accomplished with three new proposals:Provide everyday Americans with a refundable “My Voice” tax credit to help spur small-dollar contributions to candidates for Congress;Establish a “Freedom from Influence Fund,” in which small-dollar contributions ($150 or less) will be matched in order to increase the impact of small-dollar donations;Counter the flood of outside spending (spurred by the Citizens United decision) that occurs late in the campaign cycle by making grassroots candidates eligible for additional resources (if they are able to raise at least $50,000 in additional small-dollar donations within the last 60 days of the general election).“Providing a counterbalance to the Super PACs that flood the airwaves before an election, offering tax incentives to small-dollar donors and creating a fund to multiply the giving power of those donors are pragmatic, concrete steps we can take to combat the influence of big-money campaign donors and restore the voice of the people,” concluded Rep. Kind. “By encouraging elected officials to spend more time talking to grassroots supporters than wealthy contributors, we can steer Washington’s focus back to the concerns of working families.”
02.04.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers today to introduce the Wounded Veterans Recreation Act of 2014. This legislation provides a no-cost, lifetime pass for entry into 2,000 national parks and federal recreation lands for veterans living with service-connected disabilities. “We can never fully repay the debt that we owe the men and women who served. But offering disabled veterans free, lifetime access to our national parks to help them enjoy the beauty of the country they fought to protect is one more way to say ‘thank you’ on behalf of a grateful nation,” said Rep. Kind. “As a founding member and co-chair of the National Parks Caucus and a staunch advocate for all of our men and women in uniform, I’m proud to support this expression of gratitude for our wounded veterans.”Authored by Rep. Raul Ruiz (D-CA), the Wounded Veterans Recreation Act of 2014 makes all disabled veterans eligible for a lifetime pass that would give them entry to the 2,000 national parks and federal recreational lands managed by the National Park Service, U.S. Forest Service, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, and the Bureau of Reclamation. According to the 2011 U.S. Census, there are 21.5 million military veterans in the U.S. Of this number, 3.5 million veterans are living with a service-connected disability.
01.31.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Gwen Moore, (D-WI), Tom Petri (R-WI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) joined Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) in sending a letter to President Obama today urging him to take immediate action to address the current propane crisis facing Wisconsin.“Many families across Wisconsin need propane to heat their homes during this historically cold winter, so these skyrocketing prices and supply shortages couldn’t be coming at a worse possible time,” said Rep. Kind. “We’re urging the President to take immediate action to get this resolved, lay out a plan to end the current crisis, and help ensure it doesn’t happen again.”“Wisconsin’s rural areas are being particularly hard-hit by this crisis and we are taking all possible steps to resolve this shortage and identify the causes,” said Rep. Ribble. “Wisconsinites depend on these services and we cannot tolerate systemic failures to continue.”“During his visit to our state this week, the President witnessed the extreme cold that Wisconsinites have now been dealing with for over a month. These record low temperatures have led to record high home heating prices in our state, and my constituents are in need of relief,” said Rep. Duffy. “I have worked with USDOT to obtain a waiver for trucking hours of service for propane drivers. I will continue to work with the Administration to extend that exemption. My colleagues and I are hopeful that we can continue to work with the President and his Administration to provide additional relief for our state - especially for those who have been hit particularly hard by this crisis."Nearly 250,000 residents and countless businesses throughout Wisconsin are experiencing a severe propane crisis this winter. The shortage is preventing families from keeping their homes warm during the coldest months of the year. Several factors contributed to this propane crisis, including increased usage due to a late and wet corn harvest, the loss of the Cochin supply pipeline, constrained rail service, and unusually frigid temperatures. The cumulative effect is that the price of propane in Wisconsin has risen to unprecedented levels of $6 per gallon in some parts of the state; average rates were $1.50 per gallon at this time last year.Concrete steps have already been taken, including action by the Department of Transportation issuing emergency exemptions from the Hours of Service rules for propane and other home heating fuels. Additionally, the state recently made additional funds available for residents through Wisconsin’s Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), as well as additional funds for loan guarantee programs for propane suppliers.Given the severity of the problem and its impact on Wisconsin families, more action is needed immediately. The Wisconsin Delegation urges the Administration to engage as many agencies as necessary to undertake a comprehensive investigation of the causes of this problem, to resolve the immediate crisis and ensure that it doesn’t reoccur in the future.A copy of the letter can be viewed here.
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) expressed his deep disappointment today with the Farm Bill that was passed today in the House of Representatives.“Congress has once again proven itself incapable of producing a comprehensive Farm Bill that is responsive to family farmers and responsible to taxpayers,” said Rep. Kind. “We don’t often get the chance to reform farm policy, but unfortunately this bill is woefully short of what’s needed.”Rep. Kind opposed this flawed legislation for a number of reasons. It cuts another $8.6 billion from the nutrition title on top of previous cuts that have already been made, but gives huge taxpayer subsidies that go to a few large agribusinesses. It codifies historically high commodity target prices, so any slight dip in prices will result in huge payments going out that will quickly offset any savings found in the bill. It doesn’t address the “multiple entity” rule, meaning that multiple farm managers working at the same farm could qualify for the same subsidies. And while the elimination of direct payments is a welcome step towards reforming farm subsidy programs, in the case of this Farm Bill the majority of those savings are steered into new subsidy programs.Worse yet, this bill does nothing to reform the bloated crop insurance program. The program will continue to indirectly subsidize, on average, 62% of farmers’ crop insurance premiums, reimburse insurance companies for their administrative and operating expenses, adjust premiums in order to produce a 14% return for crop insurance companies, and take the riskiest crop insurance policies off the companies’ books.And as further evidence of the bill’s fiscal irresponsibility, the federal government will continue to send nearly $150 million every year, courtesy of the American taxpayer, to the Brazilian cotton industry.“I’ve been leading the bipartisan effort to make commonsense changes to our crop insurance policies, and I’ve been outspoken about the need to end the outrageous practice of sending almost $150 million taxpayer dollars to Brazilian cotton farmers every year,” continued Rep. Kind. “Unfortunately, this bill contains none of these commonsense reforms. The final bill is fiscally irresponsible, beneficial to a few large agribusinesses, and far below what farmers and taxpayers deserve.”
01.16.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-WA) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (D-ME) introduced legislation to ensure low-income seniors living in rural areas across the country can continue to get rides to and from their doctor’s appointments. The bill, called the Recruiting Individuals to Drive Our Elders (RIDE) Act, would help bolster volunteer driver programs that are administered by state Medicaid agencies to provide cost-effective transportation for Medicaid beneficiaries.“In rural districts like mine, transportation is an important concern for people seeking care,” said Rep. Kind. “Our communities are filled with caring neighbors who are willing to give rides to the doctor’s office, but with the price of gas and the distance sometimes traveled in rural areas, we have to step up and help them cover their out-of-pocket costs.”“Too many of our low-income seniors living in rural areas are unable to obtain critical health services simply because they lack adequate access to transportation,” said Rep. DelBene. “The RIDE act is a commonsense solution to an all-too-common problem. Passing this bill will go a long way towards ensuring that Washington’s seniors have reliable access to their medical providers.”Today, state Medicaid programs are required to ensure that all Medicaid beneficiaries, including seniors, have transportation to their medical providers. As federal law requires that this transportation be provided in the most cost-effective way possible, many states choose to use volunteer drivers to transport seniors to and from their doctor’s appointments. Unfortunately, current Medicaid rules prohibit states from reimbursing volunteer drivers for the mileage of their entire trips—forcing volunteers, who are often older adults themselves, to bear the cost of miles traveled to the senior’s home and back to their own home. Rising gas prices have made it increasingly difficult for volunteer drivers to bear this burden, putting many states’ volunteer driver programs in jeopardy.The RIDE Act will enable states to reimburse volunteer drivers for their entire trip, including the miles they drive to get to a Medicaid beneficiary's home and to return home after volunteering. By doing so, it will help states to better recruit volunteer drivers and reduce those states’ dependency on more expensive forms of transportation, such as taxis and private transportation services.“The volunteer drivers in my district absolutely love taking people to their appointments. The only reward they’re looking for is the good feeling they get by helping out—but they shouldn’t have to pay through the nose for it,” said Rep. Pingree. “With gas prices the way they are, it’s getting harder and harder for volunteers to afford to offer their services. This network of volunteers has worked for many years in providing cost-effective and reliable transportation to seniors whose health depends on these appointments. The RIDE Act takes the needed steps to keep it up and running.” The legislation is supported by a broad array of patient, senior and transportation advocacy organizations, including the American Heart Association, LeadingAge, the National Senior Corps Association, the Consumer Voice, the Community Transportation Association of America, and Transportation for America. Senators Al Franken (D-MN) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) are leading the companion legislation to the RIDE Act in the Senate, also introduced today.
01.16.2014	Congressman Kind joined Wisconsin job seekers on a conference call to push for an extension of critical unemployment benefits.
01.16.2014	Congressman Kind joined Wisconsin job seekers on a conference call to push for an extension of critical unemployment benefits.Button=(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HC8me3tRIwU)
01.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is calling for House action to extend Unemployment Insurance (UI) benefits, following today’s bipartisan vote in the Senate to begin consideration of a three-month extension of the UI program.“Senators on both sides of the aisle came together today to take the first step toward extending crucial economic assistance for job-seeking Americans across the country,” said Rep. Kind. “House Republicans must allow us to extend UI benefits to those who rely on them, so they can feed their families and put gas in their cars while they continue to look for work.”On December 28th, federal unemployment benefits expired for 1.3 million Americans, including approximately 23,700 in Wisconsin. Going forward, more than 1,600 Wisconsinites will lose their benefits each week over the next six months.Signed by President George W. Bush, the federal unemployment insurance program took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since then. Despite the positive changes in our national economy over the last few years, the average job hunter in the U.S. needs 8 months to find employment. Nationwide, there are three unemployed workers available for each job opening, and if UI benefits aren’t extended, almost 250,000 jobs could be lost due to reduced spending in our local economies.“These benefits help families make ends meet, and also help maintain consumer demand in our communities,” concluded Rep. Kind. “The longer the House majority waits, the longer families will suffer, and the longer our local businesses will be deprived of consumer spending. Hopefully we can come to an agreement to extend this critical program and use a commonsense offset, such as reducing subsidies to big agribusinesses and payouts to Brazilian cotton growers.”
12.30.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is calling on Congress to immediately return to Washington to vote on an extension of unemployment insurance (UI) benefits, which expired for 1.3 million job-seeking Americans on December 28th.“Congress needs to reconvene immediately and extend the benefits that so many job-seeking Americans and their families rely on,” said Rep. Kind. “Allowing UI benefits to lapse doesn’t just hurt long-term unemployed workers; it directly harms entire communities, too. When families can’t afford to buy groceries and other necessities at our Main Street businesses, our local economies feel the impact.”In Wisconsin, approximately 23,700 people lost their benefits when the federal UI program expired last weekend. It’s estimated that almost 100,000 people across the state will be affected by the loss of benefits over the course of the next year.The average job hunter in America needs 8 months to find employment, and nationwide there are three unemployed workers available for each job opening.“Even though we are seeing positive changes in the economy, the job market has not recovered sufficiently to absorb all the job seekers who are trying to join the workforce,” concluded Rep. Kind. “And we know that if UI benefits aren’t extended, almost 250,000 jobs could be lost due to reduced spending in our local economies. Job seekers are getting hit from all sides, and it’s time for Congress to step up and fix this.”
12.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today celebrated the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which included a provision to posthumously award Lt. Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor. Lieutenant Cushing, a Wisconsin-born Civil War hero, played a key role in securing a victory for the Union at Gettysburg.“It’s never too late to do the right thing, especially when it comes to honoring our war heroes,” said Rep. Kind. “I am heartened to be joined by my colleagues in Congress in sending this bill to the President so we as a nation can finally honor Lt. Cushing with his well-deserved Medal of Honor.”“Lieutenant Cushing was a courageous leader who gave his life to protect our country and deserves to be recognized for his bravery,” Rep. Sensenbrenner said. “I am extremely pleased that the Cushing amendment was passed by the House and Senate and hopeful President Obama awards Lieutenant Cushing with the Medal of Honor for his heroic service during the Civil War."A native of Delafield, WI, Lt. Cushing is best remembered for his actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg when he helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. On July 3, 1863, the third day of battle, Cushing and the 110 men under his command received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Over the course of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was wounded. But he continued to fight, and sustained two more wounds before dying on the field of battle.Recommendations for the Medal of Honor must be formally made within two years of the heroic action and awarded within three years. The legislation passed by Congress makes it possible to waive this requirement. The medal can be awarded after the bill is signed by the President and the waiver is approved by the Department of Defense. Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner are sending a letter to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting his prompt attention to Lt. Cushing’s record and look forward to his recommendation that Lt. Cushing be recognized with the Medal of Honor.Reps. Kind and Sensenbrenner also thanked Wisconsin Senators Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin for leading the effort in the Senate to award Lt. Cushing. -30-
12.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) applauded the news that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Utilities Service Program is making major investments in electric utility infrastructure projects in Wisconsin.“Electric cooperatives do a great job of powering our rural economies and ensuring that our homes and businesses have a reliable and affordable source of electricity,” said Rep. Kind. “These investments from the USDA will help modernize and improve our electric system so that our rural communities have the power they need to create jobs and keep our local economies competitive.” The USDA investments in Wisconsin include a $121,562,000 loan to Wisconsin’s Dairyland Power Cooperative to build and improve 87 miles of transmission line and five new substations, along with other system improvements. Additionally, the Chippewa Valley Electric Cooperative is getting a $3,000,000 loan for building 40 miles of distribution line and other projects. Funding for smart grid projects is included in both loans: $800,000 for Dairyland Power and $147,188 for Chippewa Valley.A total of $1.8 billion in infrastructure funding will be invested across 25 states and one territory.
12.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement after voting in support of the bipartisan budget deal passed by the House today:“I voted for the budget deal because it represents a small but hopeful step away from the dysfunction that has gripped Congress for the past several years. Given the current atmosphere here in Washington, it’s clear that we need to walk before we can run. This deal will bring a measure of stability to our economy so that employers can safely make long-term business decisions, and help ease the pain of arbitrary across-the-board ‘sequestration’ cuts to critical areas like education, job training, and military readiness.“I am deeply disappointed, however, that an extension of unemployment benefits was not included in the package. And my ongoing concern is that Congress is still doing things backwards. The programs that we should be investing in, the ones that will strengthen our economy and lower the deficit in the long term are the very programs that are always on the chopping block. We need to focus on the biggest driver of our national deficit - rising health care costs - as well as other commonsense reforms like cutting wasteful subsidies out of our farm policy. These types of reforms, combined with smart investments in areas like education and infrastructure, are critical to ensuring prosperity.”
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, DC--Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today implored Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor to keep loopholes for multimillionaires closed in any final Farm Bill. Both the House and Senate-passed versions of the Farm Bill reformed payment limits for commodity programs by capping the total number of “active personal management” who can receive commodity payments.“It is unconscionable that these conferees would try to reverse the reforms backed by a majority of their colleagues so as to continue the flow of millions of dollars, beyond what they are entitled to, to a relatively few mega farms,” the representatives wrote. “CBO [Congressional Budget Office] has estimated $170 million in savings if Congress reforms payment limits for commodity programs by placing a hard cap of $250,000 (for married couples) on the total amount of commodity payments that producers can receive.”Members of Congress are currently negotiating a new five-year Farm Bill that could cut billions from nutrition and anti-hunger programs, even as multimillionaires continue to get exorbitant farm subsidy payments. The farm subsidy programs are rife with fraud, as the Government Accountability Office recently detailed.By contrast, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP or food stamps), has one of the lowest error rates of any federal program. Over 90 percent of all food stamp spending goes to families living at or below the poverty line.The letter can be read in its entirety here. -30-
12.06.2013	Rep. Kind Cites New Study Finding that Wisconsin Ranks 8th in the U.S. for Student Loan DebtWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today renewed his call for action to make college loans more affordable, citing a new study finding that Wisconsin ranks 8th highest in the country for percentage of graduates with student loan debt.“The fact that our state has the 8th highest percentage of students graduating with debt should be a wake-up call for every Wisconsinite,” said Rep. Kind. “We have to reverse this trend. Helping our young people prepare to compete in the global marketplace is a smart investment, and an absolute necessity for the future of our state’s economy.”The study, conducted by the Institute for College Access and Success, found the 68% of last year’s graduates left school carrying student loan debt. The average debt amount was $28,102, which was the 14th highest in the nation.Rep. Kind has taken concrete steps to keep college affordable, and has consistently voted against bills that aim to balance the federal deficit on the backs of students. He strongly opposed a so-called compromise on student loan interest rates this past summer, which will ultimately lead to higher interest rates. He also introduced the Protecting Education through Lifetime Learning (PELL) Grant Funding Act to direct any profit the government makes from federal student loan programs into the Pell Grant program.Rep. Kind’s efforts are especially needed as higher education in Wisconsin faces historic challenges. The state has cut funding for our public colleges by 11%, and at the federal level, mandatory spending reductions (known as the “sequester”) are cutting 5% from programs helping low-income students, minorities, and students with disabilities afford college.“I have the privilege of representing 14 colleges and universities in the Third Congressional District and I know how tough it is on families trying to pay for college,” concluded Rep. Kind. “For a Wisconsin student to graduate from college and enter the job market with over $28,000 in debt creates a huge financial strain that can last for years. The time for action is now, before Wisconsin falls any further behind.”
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) welcomed the news that Wisconsin is receiving a grant award totaling $475,000 from the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) State Energy Program. The competitively awarded grant is for projects whose goal is to increase statewide energy savings and boost the energy efficiency of public institutions, local governments and industrial sectors.“This grant will help support a forward-looking approach aimed at promoting energy efficiency and helping communities reduce energy waste,” said Rep. Kind. “These investments will protect the environment, save taxpayer dollars and help Wisconsin continue to lead the way in smart, innovative renewable energy solutions and innovations.”Wisconsin’s award is part of nearly $4 million in grants to 13 states aimed at increasing statewide energy savings and boosting energy efficiency. Wisconsin’s awards – totaling $475,000 – fall into two categories. One will attempt to remove regulatory, market and utility barriers to industrial energy efficiency (while helping create a sustainable model), accounting for $75,000 of the federal funding. The other project will focus on retrofitting public housing as well as local government and state facilities, (including the installation of low-wattage LED lighting and an upgrade to existing heating and cooling systems), accounting for $400,000 in grant funding.Rep. Kind wrote letters in strong support of the grant. The DOE’s State Energy Program provides support through formula and competitive grants, assisting states in saving energy and harnessing clean energy technologies. States use the grants to increase technology use, build partnerships, and facilitate energy-related emergency preparedness.
11.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) is highlighting a new report that details the substantial economic activity generated by our national wildlife refuges. “Our national wildlife refuges offer spectacular natural beauty and critical habitat for wildlife. But they are also economic engines that create jobs in local communities,” said Rep. Kind. “Making investments in our natural resources provides a valuable return in Wisconsin and across the country."The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service recently released "Banking on Nature," a report that describes the profound economic impact that the nation’s 561 national wildlife refuges have on local economies. In 2011 (the most recent data available), 46.5 million people visited refuges, representing a near 30 percent increase over five years. Spending by these visitors generated $2.4 billion of sales in regional economies, and approximately $342.9 million in tax revenue at the local, county, state and federal level.Wisconsin enjoys tremendous economic benefits from national wildlife refuges. At western Wisconsin’s Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife & Fish Refuge, for example, there were 4.4 million visits in 2011 resulting in $101.9 million spent. A full 68 percent of that spending came from non-local visitors. The local economic impact associated with these visits includes 1,394 jobs, $47 million in employment income, and $20.4 million total tax revenue. The refuge offers activities ranging from hunting and fishing to bird watching and bicycling.“We are fortunate to have theUpper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge, as well as the refuges in Trempealeau and Necedah, right here in our region,” concluded Rep. Kind. “We need to continueprotecting and investing in our refuges here at home and in public lands across the U.S., to keep local economies strong and to ensure that our open spaces can be enjoyed by future generations.”The full report can be read here.
11.20.2013	
11.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) helped honor the 33 Native American tribes with members who served as military code talkers during WWI and WWII, in a ceremony held today at the U.S. Capitol.“It was my distinct honor to be a part of this ceremony recognizing these great patriots,” said Rep. Kind. “Native American code talkers, many of whom came from Wisconsin, played a key role in advancing the United States toward victory while saving the lives of countless Americans in uniform.”Speaking at the ceremony, Rep. Kind described the service of the Code Talkers, who transmitted secret messages of critical tactical importance using their native tribal languages. The Code Talkers Recognition Act of 2008, cosponsored by Rep. Kind, authorized the creation of medals to honor the valor and dedication of Native American Code Talkers. Wisconsin Tribes honored at today’s ceremony include the Ho-Chunk, Oneida, and Menominee Nations; joining Rep. Kind on the program were military leaders as well as members of the House and Senate leadership.In WWII, Code Talkers served in North Africa, Europe, and the Pacific, and their unbreakable code played a pivotal role in saving countless lives and hastening WWII’s end. Many Code Talkers were killed or wounded during that war, and at least one was taken prisoner, but many of those who returned from WWII continued their military careers in the Korean and Vietnam Wars. As a testament to their professionalism, the enemy was never able to break the Code Talkers’ communications.Code Talkers could communicate in 20 seconds what coding machines of the time took 30 minutes to do. In the field, they were never allowed to write any part of the code down, making themselves “living codes.” Many Native American languages had no alphabet and were almost impossible to master without early exposure.“Every American owes a debt of gratitude to the Code Talkers,” concluded Rep Kind. “Because of the secret nature of their service, many of them returned home without a heroes’ welcome. I’m proud to be able to stand here today to help ensure that everyone knows the full measure of their sacrifice and bravery.”In his remarks, Rep. Kind also made reference to the Veterans History Project (VHP), which allows veterans and their families to record their stories as part of a permanent historical collection in the Library of Congress. Rep. Kind authored the legislation creating the VHP in 2000 and actively promotes engagement in the project so that the stories of our heroes can be preserved for future generations.
11.19.2013	Washington, DC— Today, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-03) along with Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) sent a letter to Governor Scott Walker expressing frustration with his most recent BadgerCare decision and urging him not to delay insurance coverage for approximately 80,000 Wisconsinites.Under Governor Walker's previous plan, about 80,000 low-income Wisconsinites would be transferred into the Affordable Care Act exchange from the BadgerCare program. At that same time, Governor Walker would accept about 80,000 new BadgerCare recipients. Last week, he announced his intent to delay the transfer. However, to offset that cost he would also delay covering those newly eligible Medicaid recipients. “Governor Walker never should have rejected federal support for Medicaid expansion in the first place. There are federal funds available right now for low-income Wisconsinites who need health care coverage, and all that’s standing in the way is the Governor,” said Rep. Kind. “He needs to put partisanship aside, and follow the example of many Republican governors around the country who have expanded Medicaid coverage for low-income individuals.”“I am extremely disappointed that Governor Walker is once again turning his back on our most vulnerable populations,” said Rep. Moore. “As he touts his latest health care agenda item encouraging the legislature to keep current BadgerCare recipients on the program through March, the health of thousands could be in jeopardy. He is no hero. At a minimum, I urge our governor to keep his word and cover those newly eligible for BadgerCare beginning January 1. I continue to encourage him to stop his partisan games and accept federal funds to expand Medicaid.” “The most viable option for Governor Walker has been an option available to him all along—expand health care access in Wisconsin at no cost to the state. We simply would not be in this situation if Governor Walker had not rejected the $4 billion in federal funds to expand BadgerCare and provide families with secure, affordable and accessible health care. The health security of Wisconsin residents is too important to be used in a game of political football,” said Rep. Pocan.The letter reads as follows: The Honorable Scott WalkerGovernor of Wisconsin115 East CapitolMadison, WI 53702 Dear Governor Walker,We are writing to express our concern about the impending health insurance coverage gap that could result for the 80,000 individuals under 100% of the poverty level, as a consequence of your recent proposal to the state legislature.Last Thursday, November 14th, we felt relief when you announced that you would allow a three-month extension of BadgerCare coverage to the approximately 77,000 low-income Wisconsinites whose coverage is due to expire on January 1, 2014. Given the challenging rollout of the Marketplaces thus far, we agree with your assessment that these individuals—who are scheduled to be transferred to the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Marketplaces—would benefit from a longer enrollment period. We also support your proposal to extend the state’s high-risk insurance plan, known as the Health Insurance Risk-Sharing Plan (HIRSP), for three additional months. However, we are gravely concerned about the fate of the 80,000 individuals under 100% of the poverty line, who were promised access to BadgerCare as of January 1, 2014 in your budget request. As you know, your budget would have granted BadgerCare eligibility to all those under the poverty level, including childless adults. Your Department of Health Services has been engaging in an outreach plan to the newly-eligible population, and some individuals who have applied for BadgerCare (through the Marketplaces or elsewhere) have already received confirmations of BadgerCare coverage. We were dismayed to learn that you now plan to renege on the promise to cover those below the poverty line in January 2014, and have now proposed delaying their eligibility until April 1, 2014. The key source of our concern is that individuals below 100% of the poverty level are ineligible for premium tax credits to purchase coverage in the Marketplace. As a result of your budget proposal, the newly-eligible BadgerCare population will fall into a three-month gap in coverage; they will be unable to sign up for the BadgerCare program but also unable to purchase subsidized coverage in the Marketplace. Due to their low income level, they would not have the means to purchase coverage without a subsidy. This group would thus be in a unique and inequitable situation—essentially, worse off and with fewer options than other Wisconsinites. Given that this is a vulnerable population—they are already living in poverty and are more likely to be in poor health than the rest of the overall population—we strongly urge you to reconsider your plan for this group.We realize that you plan to utilize the “savings” from delaying coverage for the 80,000 individuals under the poverty line to pay for coverage for about 77,000 parents currently on BadgerCare. However, we encourage you to seek alternative budgetary savings, which would allow you to provide coverage for both populations through March 2014. In addition, we once again recommend that you reconsider your choice not to fully expand BadgerCare under the Affordable Care Act. You have the option to expand BadgerCare with a 100 percent match for all newly-eligible enrollees. This funding would allow you to offset the cost of continuing coverage for BadgerCare enrollees above the poverty line.It is time to move past politics and do what’s right for Wisconsin. The Affordable Care Act provides the opportunity for Wisconsin to receive $119 million to ensure that our most at risk populations have health care access and coverage. We urge you to join your Republican Governor colleagues and expand Medicaid. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, among others, recognized the need to move beyond political rhetoric and put their constituents’ health first.We remain dedicated to collaborating with you, and the Obama Administration, to ensure the best possible outcome for Wisconsin under the Affordable Care Act. We request that you consider our suggestions for the most vulnerable population in our state. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress Ron Kind Member of Congress Mark PocanMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
11.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC—Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) today continued their effort for more transparency in the crop insurance program. They are asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a review of crop insurance payments and shed some light on how much of the payments go to wealthy individuals and families.“The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 2642) passed in July by the House expanded crop insurance subsidies,” the representatives wrote. “According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, these crop insurance subsidies will cost taxpayers $90 billion over the next decade. USDA reports it spent $14 billion on crop insurance last year alone.“These subsidies overwhelmingly flow to the largest and most successful farm businesses. Unlike other farm subsidies, crop insurance subsidies are not subject to means testing or payment limits and farmers are not required to adopt basic environmental protections in exchange for premium support from the taxpayer.”Members of Congress are currently negotiating a new five-year farm bill that could cut billions from nutrition and anti-hunger programs, while continuing—or even increasing—these crop insurance subsidies that have little to no oversight. Crop insurance payments are also not subject to means testing, payment limits or conservation requirements. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office recently issued a report with common-sense recommendations for saving taxpayer dollars by reducing crop insurance subsidies. The full letter follows:November 18, 2013 The Honorable Gene DodaroComptroller General of the United StatesU.S. Government Accountability Office441 G Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro:We write to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a review of farm subsidy payments, in particular crop insurance payments, under the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008.The Environmental Working Group (EWG) released a report on November 7, 2012 showing that at least 50 billionaires, or farm businesses in which they had a financial interest, benefited from $11.3 million in traditional farm subsidies between 1995 and 2012. It is of great concern to us that farm subsidies have been paid to such wealthy individuals. Many of the same billionaires may have also received premium subsidies through the federal crop insurance program. However, taxpayers have no way of knowing who has received this support because current federal law prohibits the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) from disclosing the identities of crop insurance recipients.Congress is currently negotiating a new Farm Bill that would reauthorize and possibly reform a wide range of agriculture and nutrition programs, including the crop insurance program. At the same time, Congress is also determining funding and policy for the food stamp program, which provides support to millions of low-income households, including over 21 million children.The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 2642) passed in July by the House expanded crop insurance subsidies. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, these crop insurance subsidies will cost taxpayers $90 billion over the next decade. USDA reports it spent $14 billion on crop insurance last year alone.These subsidies overwhelmingly flow to the largest and most successful farm businesses. Unlike other farm subsidies, crop insurance subsidies are not subject to means testing or payment limits and farmers are not required to adopt basic environmental protections in exchange for premium support from the taxpayer. While some farms annually collect more than $1 million in crop insurance premium support, the bottom 80% of policyholders annually collect about $5,000.This may very likely be lawful, but it underscores the need for agricultural policy reform. Reform begins with accurate information. Accordingly, we would like a report answering the following key questions:· How many individuals or families with a net worth over $1,000,000 have or will receive farm subsidies under the current farm bill, the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008?· Of these individuals, how many meet the active farming requirements as defined in Title I of the current Farm Bill?· Of these individuals, how many are members of Congress?· How much money are each of these individuals receiving from farm subsidies? Over what time period?· What programs within the Farm Bill result in the most payments to those with an adjusted gross income greater than $1,000,000?· How many individuals or families with a net worth over $1,000,000 are benefiting from crop insurance premium subsidies?· Of these individuals, how many are members of Congress?· How large are the premium subsidies these individuals are benefiting from and how much are these individuals receiving in crop insurance indemnities? Over what time period?Thank you in advance for your immediate attention to this request. Should you have any questions or need additional information, please contact a member our staff. We look forward to hearing from you on this important issue.Sincerely,Rosa L. DeLauro Ron Kind Earl Blumenauer
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) blasted Gov. Scott Walker today for announcing a three-month delay in moving more than 70,000 low-income Wisconsinites from state health coverage to the federal insurance exchanges, and continued failure to fully expand BadgerCare for low-income adults.“Governor Walker should never have rejected federal support for Medicaid expansion in the first place,” said Rep. Kind.“He had the opportunity to expand BadgerCare in our state and ensure affordable coverage for low-income adults while saving Wisconsin money. Governor Walker’s announcement is disingenuous since it was his failure to expand BadgerCare that forced 70,000 Wisconsinites off their current health coverage.”The effects of Gov. Walker’s failure to use the tools in health care reform are already surfacing. Last month, Citizen Action of Wisconsin released a report detailing how much more affordable insurance premium will be in Minnesota as compared to those in Wisconsin. Although the two states have similar demographics and comparable medical costs, aggregate Wisconsin premiums are 79% to 99% higher than those in Minnesota.Gov. Walker’s decision to reject federal Medicaid dollars accounts for part of this vast discrepancy between the two states. Another critical difference is the use of “rate review,” a new ACA reform that allows states to examine any insurance rate increases of more than 10 percent to ensure that the increase is justified by actual medical costs. The Citizen Action report found that Wisconsin has a “passive” rate review process, while counterparts in Minnesota are proactivelymonitoring rate increases to keep prices in check.“If our state accepted the BadgerCare help and used the rate review tool likeMinnesota, we would be seeing better rates,” concluded Rep. Kind. “Wisconsin can’t take much more of Governor Walker’s fiscal malpractice. He should instead follow the example of many Republican governors around the country who have expanded Medicaid coverage for low-income individuals.”
11.08.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), U.S. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), U.S. Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), U.S. Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) and U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) continued to call for major reforms to current farm subsidy policy in the wake of a report released today that details a long list of billionaires who are profiting from taxpayer-funded farm subsidies.The report, released by the research and advocacy organization Environmental Working Group (EWG), found that the federal government paid $11.3 million in taxpayer-funded subsidies to 50 billionaires (or businesses in which they have an ownership stake) between 1995 and 2012. EWG compiled the list by matching their Farm Subsidy Database with the Forbes 400 list of the richest Americans. According to the list, the billionaires who received these farm subsidies have a collective net worth estimated to be $316 billion.“This perfectly illustrates just how out of control our current agricultural subsidy policies are. The EWG report is further proof that our agriculture programs just aren’t working and need immediate reform. If the late Sen. Bill Proxmire were still handing out his Golden Fleece Awards, this would be a first-place winner for sure,” said Rep. Kind. “This is why I've worked so hard to reform these subsidy programs. They are not responsible to the American taxpayer nor are they helpful to family farmers across the country.”“This is unfortunately only the latest report showing that multi-billion dollar agriculture subsidy programs are funneling taxpayer dollars into the pockets of millionaires and billionaires,” said Senator Flake. “As the House and Senate continue farm bill negotiations, this information should serve as the nail in the coffin of wasteful direct payments, outrageous crop insurance subsidies, and other wasteful agricultural programs that we simply cannot afford to sustain in this time of soaring debt and deficits.”“This report by EWG revealing the number of billionaires who are receiving agricultural subsidies should be eye opening for everyone in America,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “But, while it’s shocking, it’s just the tip of the iceberg in a Farm Bill that lavishes unnecessary subsidies and handouts on farmers who don’t need them and who are better at farming the system than the land. Any report coming out of the conference committee that is going to claim to be fiscally responsible has to include serious reforms, including strict means testing, for all farm payment and crop insurance programs.”“This report highlights the need to close these loopholes by having a means testing component,” said Rep. Petri. “We can’t really blame billionaires for taking advantage of these subsidies because the current rules allow it. But giving subsidies to those who don’t need it costs the taxpayers millions each year. So, I think we need to take a good look at the program to make sure small, family farmers who truly need the assistance have that safety net and those who don’t need the assistance are no longer eligible.”“These findings are absolutely outrageous and further evidence that the indefensible practice of subsidizing millionaires and billionaires needs to end,” Rep. DeLauro said. “Using taxpayer dollars to pad the coffers of the wealthy is reprehensible. I call on my colleagues negotiating a farm bill to do the right thing and end subsidies for America's wealthiest families and agribusinesses, not take food away from the poor and most vulnerable.”EWG states that the total amount of farm subsidies sent to the billionaires is likely to be much higher because many of them also received crop insurance subsidies; the names of the recipients of those payments are not disclosed by law.A new farm bill is currently before a bipartisan, bicameral conference committee. While crop insurance premium subsidies are not subject to means testing, payment limits or conservation requirements, proposed changes in both the House and Senate versions of the bill could give millions more in premium subsidies to the same billionaires who are already collecting them.
11.07.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) released the following statement after today’s announcement that the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse will not be ending its ROTC programs. Rep. Kind and other members of Wisconsin’s congressional delegation sent a letter to the Secretary of the Army expressing opposition to the decision and seeking a solution to save the program.“I applaud the U.S. Army’s decision announced today that the ROTC program at UW-La Crosse will not close by the end of the 2015 school year, but will instead be put on a two-year probation period. I intend to request further information from the Army as to what steps need to be taken so that UW-L’s ROTC program can successfully complete the two-year probation period, and to make sure that the standards are realistic and achievable.“I have always strongly supported the efforts of young people who seek a career with our military while still attending college, and I remain committed to working with the University and the Army to ensure that the ROTC program continues.”-30-
10.31.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) was encouraged by a new Kaiser Family Foundation study finding that projected Medicare spending is declining because of the Affordable Care Act (ACA).“I’m pleased to see that we are making progress toward reining in health care costs with savings in the Medicare program,” said Rep. Kind. “The deficit-reducing reforms in the ACA are key to getting our nation’s fiscal house in order.”The study presents two projections of the average annual growth rate of Medicare spending from 2010 through 2019. Projected growth in Medicare spending before the ACA was found to be 6.8 percent, but with passage of the ACA projected growth was only 4.8 percent over that same period. That reduction means projected savings of $140 billion by 2019, savings substantially higher than earlier estimates.“As someone who has fought to protect and preserve Medicare throughout my time in office, I am heartened to see that these saving are even higher than expected,” continued Rep. Kind. “But there is more work to be done to not only lower costs but also change our health care system to value quality of care over quantity of services.”Health care reform included provisions authored by Rep. Kind to improve our delivery system and change the way we pay for health care so it's more integrated, coordinated and patient-focused, all at a lower cost.“I know these reforms can work because the providers in Wisconsin have long been delivering high-quality, low-cost care that has been looked to as a national model,” concluded Rep. Kind. “I will continue to work with our Wisconsin providers to build on reforms already put in place through the ACA, to help reduce costs even more while improving the quality of care.”The new health care reform law also provides Medicare recipients with access to free preventive care and a free annual wellness visit every year. In 2012, 34.1 million seniors received one or more of these free services, including about half a million individuals in Wisconsin.
10.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – The House bipartisan working group spearheading the effort to resolve the fiscal impasse in Washington issued the following statement in response to the announcement of a deal to reopen the government and avoid a default on the nation’s debts:“On day one of the government shutdown, we joined together not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans deeply committed to resolving this impasse and avoiding a self-inflicted economic wound that would devastate families across the country. As it became clear that partisanship – and not problem solving – would dominate the discussion in Washington, we were joined by pragmatic, like-minded leaders on both sides of the aisle. In informal talks, we were able to put our differences aside and develop a potential solution. We applaud our Senate colleagues for working together to come up with a solution. Now it is time for Congress to act to get the government open and avoid further roiling the markets. We look forward to continuing our bipartisan discussions with the goal of putting forth a long-term deficit reduction agreement to get our fiscal house in order and finding other areas of cooperation.”Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03)and Rep. Charlie Dent (PA-15) announced the formation of a House bipartisan working group with 18 of their colleagues on Thursday, October 3. Since that announcement, the working group has expanded and continued to work to break the impasse. Members of the working group endorsing the above statement include:House Republicans:Rep. Lou BarlettaRep. Mike CoffmanRep. Charlie DentRep. Mike FitzpatrickRep. Jim GerlachRep. Chris GibsonRep. Michael GrimmRep. Richard HannaRep. David JoyceRep. Pete KingRep. Leonard LanceRep. Frank LoBiondoRep. Pat MeehanRep. Jon RunyanRep. Glenn “GT” ThompsonRep. Don Young House Democrats:Rep. Ron KindRep. Ron BarberRep. Dan MaffeiRep. Brad SchneiderRep. Mike McIntyreRep. John BarrowRep. Jim MathesonRep. Kyrsten SinemaRep. Ami BeraRep. Bill OwensRep. Scott PetersRep. Gerry ConnollyRep. Jared PolisRep. John CarneyRep. Jim CooperRep. John DelaneyRep. Jim MoranRep. Mike QuigleyRep. Jim HimesRep. Kurt SchraderRep. Rick LarsenRep. Dan LipinskiRep. Tulsi GabbardRep. Janice Hahn
10.11.2013	Rep. Kind is working to bring members of both parties together to reach an agreement.
10.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Charlie Dent (R-PA) today held a press conference with a bipartisan group of 11 House Republicans and 8 House Democrats to announce that they would work together on a solution to the government shutdown. “We need to walk before we run, by having constructive conversations to build trust,” said Rep. Kind. “Working with my friend Congressman Dent, and a coalition of members from both sides of the aisle, our focus right now is to start moving the ball forward by having a constructive dialogue about ending this shutdown and getting the government working again.”Members of the group believe that this type of effort will bring members of both parties together to reach an agreement on ending the government shutdown. Rep. Kind and Rep. Dent reiterated that they would continue to move forward with discussions in the coming days.“Bipartisan momentum is growing,” concluded Rep. Kind. “People across the country look at Washington, DC right now and they are not impressed with what they see. But we didn’t come together today to assign blame; we came together to start a constructive dialogue and seize opportunities where we can agree on a course of action. The American people want and deserve a government that functions, and elected representatives who are willing to put their differences aside for the sake of the greater good. ”
09.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) praised a newreport released today by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) illustrating how Wisconsin consumers will find lower insurance rates and more affordable plan options in the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) new Health Insurance Marketplace.“This is more proof that families in Wisconsin and across the country will benefit from the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Kind. “Premium rates in the Wisconsin Marketplace are even lower than originally projected, and Wisconsin consumers will be able to choose from an average of 97 health plans in the new Health Insurance Marketplace.”Open enrollment in the new Health Insurance Marketplace begins on Oct. 1, when millions of Americans will be able to shop for “gold,” “silver,” or “bronze” health insurance coverage. The HHS report found that in 36 states there will be an average of 53 health plans in the Marketplace for consumers to choose from and that the average premium will be 16 percent lower than originally expected (before taking financial assistance into account). Here in Wisconsin, a 27-year old who makes $25,000 per year will pay $96 per month for the lowest-cost bronze plan (taking into account tax credits), and a family of four with an income of $50,000 per year would pay just $106 per month in a bronze plan.“Consumers were too often denied quality health insurance options in the past, but thanks to the ACA, consumers will now be able to choose from various new coverage options at a price that’s affordable,” concluded Rep. Kind.Earlier this month, Rep. Kind hosted information sessions on the Affordable Care Act in Eau Claire, Stevens Point, Platteville and La Crosse so that residents across the district could get information and ask questions about how the new health care reform law can help individuals, families and businesses. Rep. Kind has also made his Congressional website, www.kind.house.gov, into a comprehensive, one-stop shop for online resources to help consumers take full advantage of the new law.To get more information about benefitting from the new health care reform law, go to www.healthcare.gov or call the official customer service line at 800-318-2596.
09.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against H.J.Res.59, the 2014 Continuing Resolution (CR) which would send the United States government into default and permanently defunds health care reform just as millions of Americans are set to begin signing up for coverage under the Affordable Care Act. “This is a self-inflicted wound which would stall the economy and turn back the clock on health care reform,” said Rep. Kind. “It is beyond irresponsible for House Republicans to engage in political brinksmanship by threatening to shut down the federal government in order to achieve their ideological goals, when we should be focused on creating new jobs and building the middle class. Our country cannot afford another GOP-manufactured crisis; we risk becoming a deadbeat nation that doesn’t fulfill its obligations.”The effects of the Republican CR would be devastating for a number of reasons. The CR maintains the GOP sequester cuts, threatening up to 1.6 million jobs next year and continuing cuts to essential programs like Head Start, Meals on Wheels and job training programs. It also prioritizes payments to Treasury bonds, 47 percent of which are foreign-owned by countries like China which leaves funding designed to help active-duty troops, disabled veterans and students behind.The Continuing Resolution also marks the 42nd time that the Republican majority has voted to repeal or undermine the Affordable CareAct (ACA), and actually aims to repeal all benefits for Americans under the health care reform law. As a result, insurance companies could deny coverage for millions of people with pre-existing conditions, consumers could be dropped from coverage when they get sick, and young adults up to 26 would lose the option of staying on a parent’s plan.“The ideological wing of the House majority is doing everything it can to keep uninsured Americans from getting the coverage they need under the Affordable Care Act,” continued Rep. Kind. “To connect the funding of the federal government with yet another vote to defund the Affordable Care Act is just more proof that the House majority is more interested in playing political games than it is in creating jobs and strengthening the middle class.”
09.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against H.R. 3102, dangerous legislation cutting $40 billion from the critical Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) that helps struggling American families buy food.“This wrong-headed approach would take food off the dinner tables of vulnerable families here in Wisconsin and across the country,” said Rep. Kind. “Congress should absolutely not be making such drastic cuts to our food programs that would increase the number of Americans, especially children and seniors, who are going to bed hungry.”According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, about 34,000 households in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District receive SNAP benefits. Over 800,000 Wisconsinites rely on SNAP, nearly half of whom are children, and current SNAP recipients receive $1.40 per meal.There is bipartisan opposition to the cuts found in the bill. Former Senator Bob Dole (R-KS) recently co-authored an op-ed stating that “Tackling our nation's hunger issues has always resulted in a win-win situation for farmers, low-income families and our economy. The latest proposal from the House is an about-face on our progress fighting hunger” and that “this is no time to play politics with hunger.”“It used to be that Members of both parties could agree that helping disadvantaged Americans buy food was good policy,” continued Rep. Kind. “Instead, the House majority is pursuing a dangerous political agenda that will compound the difficulty that many Americans are facing as they struggle to afford groceries.”“There has to be a better way to pass a Farm Bill to reform our agriculture policies that would actually secure bipartisan support,” concluded Rep. Kind. “That’s why I’m continuing to lead the fight to rein in wasteful subsidies that favor big agribusiness over family farmers. If Republicans are truly interested in real reform, they should join the effort to overhaul our subsidy programs instead of cutting food assistance to our children, seniors and the disabled.”
09.04.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) harshly criticized the release of misleading “estimates” from Governor Scott Walker’s Office of the Commissioner of Insurance (OCI), claiming insurance rates for consumers will rise under the Affordable Care Act (ACA).“It’s disappointing, but not surprising, that the Walker Administration would release this misleading information aimed at undermining the Affordable Care Act,” said Rep. Kind. “For purely political reasons, Governor Walker has kept trying to derail the new health care reform law and the benefits it offers to consumers, and the release of this faulty data fits that pattern.”The “analysis” by OCI attempted to compare rates being paid today by Wisconsin consumers to projected costs after ACA implementation in 2014. The Insurance Commissioner himself acknowledges that “the truth is that comparisons are difficult” between current plans and exchange plans, but then presents the misleading comparison anyway. The actual impact on premium rates and out-of-pocket costs for individual consumers will not be fully apparent until October 1, when the Health Insurance Marketplace opens.The methodology used to produce the estimates is left largely unexplained, and the data also ignores several critical factors that would impact the cost of health insurance. First, the report by OCI does not include new tax credits, nor does it take into account pre-existing conditions and other factors. It also fails to account for the quality of plans and reduced out-of-pocket costs for new Marketplace plans compared with coverage currently available in Wisconsin, and neglects to acknowledge that premium rates alone do not reflect total consumer cost.In reality, statistics from other states (many of which are committed to successfully implementing the health care reform law as opposed to undermining it for political reasons) indicate that the ACA will help lower costs for the average consumer. Although all the actual statistics won’t be available until October, there have already been studies done by the Department of Health and Human Services in 16 states finding that premiums were almost 20 percent lower on average than what the Congressional Budget Office projected. “Clearly, this so-called ‘analysis’ presents incomplete information for the purpose of furthering a political agenda,” concluded Rep. Kind. “Instead of offering up distortions and misinformation, it would be nice to see the Walker Administration accept the fact that the ACA is the law of the land and start helping Wisconsin consumers get affordable health care coverage.”
08.22.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) participated in the groundbreaking of the Great River Road Interpretive Center at the Genoa National Fish Hatchery this week, where he spoke about the economic, cultural and environmental importance of the Upper Mississippi River Region.“It was an honor to be a part of the groundbreaking for the new Great River Road Interpretive Center, and to be joined by many great leaders who are dedicated to protecting and honoring the Mississippi River as both a precious natural resource and an economic engine,” said Rep. Kind. “Residents and visitors alike will benefit from the wealth of historical, cultural and ecological information that will be housed in what will be a great new facility here in Genoa.”The purpose of the new building will be to focus on the intrinsic value of the Upper Mississippi River Region. The Sauk and Fox tribes of Oklahoma and Iowa will help develop an interpretation one of the last battles of the Black Hawk War, and Dairyland Power will be constructing an exhibit describing their peregrine falcon restoration efforts.Features that are already available at the location include an accessible fishing dock, donated by Dairyland Power, for children and adults that have limited access to the outdoors or a debilitating illness, as well as an outdoor classroom and wetlands boardwalk used by local schools in their outdoor education classes.The Great River Road is nearly 3,000 miles long and runs through 10 states and the Mississippi River. A current network of 70 museums and historic sites in all 10 river states showcase and connect the historic sites of the Mississippi River, including six here in Wisconsin. The building project in Genoa was partially funded by a grant received through the Scenic Byways Program.
08.08.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) issued the following statement in reaction to the Obama Administration’s major disaster declaration for the State of Wisconsin, triggering the release of federal funds to help communities recover from the flooding and mudslides that occurred between June 20-28 this summer:“Along with the families and communities who will benefit from this disaster relief, I commend President Obama and his administration for making this declaration which will send much-needed resources here to the areas hit hard by recent floods and mudslides. “Many of the counties that will benefit from this declaration are located in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District. With the help of these federal resources, communities here in our area and across the state will have the extra help they need to as they rebound from this summer’s record rainfall.“My office and I have stayed in close touch with both local officials and residents whose homes, businesses and neighborhoods were damaged, and they have proven themselves to be resilient, diligent, and committed to helping one another. Progress is already being made, but I’m sure that they’ll appreciate knowing that the federal government has their back as they continue to rebuild.”Rep. Kind and a bipartisan group of Wisconsin colleagues sent a letter to President Obama earlier this week in support of Governor Walker’s request for a federal emergency declaration.The western Wisconsin counties of Crawford, Grant, Richland and Vernon all suffered serious damage.A fact sheet for the declaration can be viewed here.
08.07.2013	Praises Department of Defense Announcement but Calls for Congressional Action to End SequesterWASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) commended the Department of Defense (DOD) today for reducing the number of furlough days that civilian employees will be subjected to from 11 days to six days. Earlier this summer, furloughs began for civilian employees at Fort McCoy, Volk Field and Camp Williams in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District.“I applaud the Department of Defense for easing the pain of furloughs. This will reduce the economic stress being felt by local communities, and it will lessen the overall impact of the sequester on our national security,” said Rep. Kind. DOD officials have announced that the Pentagon found sufficient savings in the last months of the current fiscal year to allow them to reduce the total number of furlough days from 11 to six. Since most affected employees have already completed their six days, furloughs will end for them next week.The announced savings are for this year only. Across-the-board cuts are likely next year if Congress does not act, and many military and civilian employees are concerned about the possibility that layoffs will be necessary next year if the sequester is not addressed. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives refuses to take action to finish a budget that would replace the sequester.“Scaling back the furloughs is welcome news, but Congress still needs to act with urgency to replace the sequester with smarter spending cuts,” concluded Rep. Kind. “I’ve been saying that sequestration is Latin for ‘stupid spending cuts’ because the people working to protect our country should never have been forced to take a salary cut to pay for the mistakes being made by Congress.”Rep. Kind has repeatedly called for Congressional action to replace sequestration in its entirety with comprehensive, responsible legislation that protects our military and critical programs like Head Start, Meals on Wheels, and job training services. He also recently held a town hall meeting in Sparta to hear from the employees, families and community leaders being affected by furloughs at the local military bases.
08.05.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined a bipartisan group of Wisconsin colleagues in sending a letter today to President Obama, in support of Governor Walker’s request for a federal emergency declaration for several Wisconsin counties affected by recent flooding. Many of the counties are located in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District.“My staff and I have been closely monitoring the flood recovery efforts and have stayed in close touch with local officials, offering all the assistance we can to help local residents recover from the floods and begin the process of rebuilding,” said Rep. Kind. “People in these communities are resilient and committed to helping one another, but there is no doubt that federal assistance is needed to help everyone get back on their feet.”This summer, between June 20th and June 28th, many Wisconsin communities experienced record rainfall resulting in devastating floods and mudslides, causing major damage to hundreds of homes, farms, businesses, roads, and power lines. The western Wisconsin counties of Crawford, Grant, Richland and Vernon all suffered serious damage.The letter sent today describes the severe damage caused by the floods and makes a strong case for the immediate release of federal resources to aid in recovery efforts. The Governor has already declared a state emergency and indicated that federal resources are needed to ensure quick and effective response and recovery.A copy of the letter can be read here.
08.02.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) recently introduced The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act (H.R. 2940) to bolster the American manufacturing sector by lowering the effective tax rate for domestic manufacturers to 20 percent.“We need to make investments in American manufacturing to ensure that we remain competitive in today’s economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Reducing the effective tax rate will be a great boost for American workers and our manufacturers that are competing in the 21st Century market. It will help them keep facilities here in the United States and employ American workers making high-quality products. This is a commonsense investment in America’s future.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, over 1 million workers are employed by domestic manufacturers. Long the backbone of state and national economy, the manufacturing industry provides stable, good-paying jobs and offers a gateway to the middle class. Rep. Kind’s bill places a high priority on supporting the stable jobs and sustainable wages the manufacturing sector offers. As a strong proponent of comprehensive tax reform, Rep. Kind has been committed to removing barriers to growth and simplifying the tax code in order to increase U.S. competitiveness and foster the creation of sustainable American jobs.The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act is a concrete step in this direction. It creates a new section of the tax code that provides a significantly lower tax rate for domestic manufacturers. This will provide important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring domestically, and those firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth here at home. “This Act helps level the playing field where taxes are concerned, putting us in a better position to bring good-paying manufacturing jobs back to our shores,” continued Rep. Kind. “Lower tax rates on this activity will help increase our competiveness as the center of world-class manufacturing.”
07.31.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against H.R. 1911, legislation that will increase long-term loan rates for students and families trying to afford higher education. The bill ties student loan interest rates to the 10-year Treasury loan rate plus an extra 2.05%.“I will not support a bill that aims to balance our federal deficit on the backs of students,” said Rep. Kind.“This legislation will ultimately force our students to pay even higher interest rates, putting them deeper in debt. That will hurt families trying to pay for college which puts America at a competitive disadvantage on the world stage.”Rep. Kind has consistently fought to prevent the doubling of student loans, which recently jumped from 3.4 to 6.8 percent. He signed a discharge petition to force an up or down vote on the Student Loan Relief Act, a bill that would extend the 3.4% interest rate on Stafford loans until July 1, 2015. Due to the failure of Congress to act, the House was faced today with flawed legislation that will result in interest rates exceeding 6.8% within the next five years, raising costs on Wisconsin students by thousands of dollars.Rep. Kind is taking concrete steps to keep college affordable for students in Wisconsin and across the country. Today, he introduced the Protecting Education through Lifetime Learning (PELL) Grant Funding Act, which directs any profit the governments makes from the federal student loan programs into federal Pell Grant programs, to make sure that those grants remain sustainable and affordable for future students. This ensures the federal government isn’t making a profit from students struggling to pay off their federal student loans.“It’s not right for Congress to leave town after passing a flawed bill that will make it harder for students to pay for college,” continued Rep. Kind. “By rejecting efforts to raise loan rates and supporting measures like the PELL Grant Funding Act, we can keep the dream of college alive for more students across America.”Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District is home to 14 colleges and universities, more than any other district in the state. A typical student in Wisconsin borrows over $26,000 to attend a four-year school, creating a serious, long-lasting financial strain for students and their families.
07.25.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted against the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, a fiscally irresponsible bill that wastes taxpayer dollars on unneeded and unwanted defense projects and programs.“I have consistently advocated for reining in our defense spending to both save money and better equip our military with the tools they need. What we can’t do is keep over 60,000 troops stationed in Western Europe protecting us from nonexistent Cold War threats, while sending the military outdated weapons and vehicles that they don’t even want,” said Rep. Kind. “We need to provide our military with the tools it needs to protect us, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent wisely on the programs and tools that work. Unfortunately, this bill didn’t meet that standard.”The defense appropriations bill would add more than $28 billion to the Pentagon’s current budget. It includes almost $1 billion more than the Pentagon requested for shipbuilding, and spends hundreds of millions on maintaining old ships that the Pentagon has asked to have retired. It also calls for the expansion of our missile defense program even though the Pentagon says that expansion is unnecessary at this time.“Instead of steering money toward outdated, unnecessary defense projects, we need to focus on commonsense priorities like ending the painful military base furloughs that are impacting families in Wisconsin and across the country,” concluded Kind.In Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District, Fort McCoy is furloughing most of its 1,500 civilian employees, Volk Field is furloughing approximately 60 and Camp Williams is furloughing about 150 for one day each week until the fiscal year ends at the end of September. The furloughing of civilian employees is in response to the sequester cuts that are the result Congressional failure to reduce the national deficit. Kind has repeatedly called for Congressional action to replace sequestration in its entirety.
07.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) has demanded answers from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) after a recent news report detailed how the agency revealed the Social Security numbers of as many as 100,000 individuals involved with nonprofit political groups known as 527s, by mistakenly posting the information online. Kind also is sponsoring bipartisan legislation to prevent such incidents from happening again in the future.“It’s extremely distressing to know that a federal agency accidentally exposed information as sensitive as a Social Security number on the Internet,” said Rep. Kind. “Everyone I know takes great care to prevent identity theft, and they deserve to know that their government is just as diligent when it comes to safeguarding personal information.”Recently, a watchdog organization alerted the IRS that up to 100,000 Social Security numbers had been made publicly accessible online. The Social Security numbers belonged to people associated with nonprofit 527 groups, which have to file tax forms with the IRS.Following this revelation, Kind signed a bipartisan letter to IRS Acting Commissioner Daniel Werfel expressing concerns about the mistakenly revealed Social Security numbers, asking for a full account of how the mistake was made and an explanation of the agency’s procedures for handling this type of data.Rep. Kind is also supporting new bipartisan legislation, the Safeguarding Social Security Numbers Act of 2013 (H.R. 2229), to ensure that this type of serious mistake cannot happen again. The bill directs the Commissioner of Social Security to issue uniform standards for shortening Social Security numbers to protect them from fraud or identity theft, and securing the numbers when they are transmitted online.The legislation also calls for a fine of up to $5,000 per day to be levied on anyone responsible for displaying a Social Security number to the general public on the Internet if that number hasn’t been shortened.“We need a full accounting of how this happened, so that the IRS can take concrete steps to make sure it never happens again,” Kind concluded.
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) recently introduced the Transparency Requirements for Agency Conferences and Events (TRACE) Act, a bipartisan bill that brings transparency, accountability and fiscal restraint to federal agency conferences.“This bill addresses the commonsense expectation that taxpayers have of their government: federal employees should not waste taxpayer dollars on extravagant accommodations, unnecessary luxuries, or special perks when hosting or attending a conference,” said Rep. Kind. “We need to allow agencies to get the training and information needed to do their jobs effectively, but there has to be some basic oversight to make sure that no money or time is being wasted on pursuits that have nothing to do with the agency’s core mission.”The TRACE Act, co-sponsored by Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN), will increase transparency of agencies by requiring a comprehensive report describing the costs associated with any proposed conference, retreat, seminar or other such event being organized by a federal agency.The bill requires, 30 days before a conference begins, an itemized statement of the cost of attending or hosting the conference, the names of keynote speakers, a list of conference attendees, the conference location and itinerary, and a summary of the purposes and goals of the event. By requiring that this information be made public, this bill would greatly reduce the overall likelihood of an agency hosting or sending employees to an unnecessary conference that serves no needed civic purpose.“Like all taxpayers, I’ve been shocked to hear reports about some of the waste and abuse being perpetrated within certain federal agencies, especially coming at a time when so many Americans are being hurt by sequester cuts,” concluded Kind. “As part of the larger effort to rein in federal spending and address our national deficit, this bill will play an important role in bringing accountability and transparency to government.”
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against the latest version of the House Farm Bill. The bill separates food assistance programs from agricultural provisions resulting in legislation even more flawed than the Farm Bill that was rejected by the House last month, and was also presented under a closed rule which effectively shut down debate and denied any opportunity to amend the bill.“This bill, like the one rejected last month, failed to include the type of reform needed to make our agriculture policies more fiscally responsible and responsive to the needs of farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “I attempted to include those reforms in this new bill, but was shut out from the process by a House majority more interested in appeasing big agribusiness than in protecting taxpayers and family farmers.”By stripping out the Farm Bill’s customary food assistance programs, House Republicans put millions of children, seniors and other Americans in jeopardy of losing benefits that help provide them with food. Splitting the Farm Bill came as a result of partisan elements in the House Majority who generally oppose the idea of federal food assistance and have been working to get rid of the programs entirely.This is the first time in over four decades that a Farm Bill has come to the floor under a completely closed rule, and the first time in history that such a bill comes to the floor with no legislative hearing or markup. The 600-page legislation was rushed to the floor late last night without enough time for Members to read and review it.Due to the closed rule, the crop insurance reform offered by Rep. Kind and narrowly defeated during debate on the last Farm Bill was not even brought to a vote. Kind’s amendment would have reformed our current crop insurance policies to save taxpayers $11 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers.“The last thing our farmers need to contend with is a dysfunctional Congress playing political games with their livelihood,” concluded Kind. “Our farmers need a comprehensive, five-year Farm Bill, and families in every community across this country need access to basic nutrition. This bill failed on both counts.”-30-
07.11.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) continued to criticize the harmful effects of sequester cuts this week as furloughs began for civilian employees at Fort McCoy, Volk Field and Camp Williams, all located in Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District.“These forced furloughs at our military bases are harmful not only to the families of the furloughed employees, but also to our overall national security,” said Rep. Kind. “I’ve said all along that sequestration is Latin for ‘stupid spending cuts’ and this is another painful reminder of that.”Fort McCoy plans to furlough most of its 1,500 civilian employees, Volk Field will furlough approximately 60 and Camp Williams will furlough about 150 civilian employees for one day each week, starting this week and continuing until the fiscal year ends at the end of September. The furloughing of civilian employees is in response to the sequester cuts that are the result Congressional failure to reduce the national deficit.Many military and civilian employees are also concerned about the possibility that layoffs will be necessary next year if the sequester is not addressed. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives refuses to take action to finish a budget that would replace the sequester. “It is unacceptable that people working to protect our country are now being forced to take a salary cut to pay for the mistakes being made by this Congress. They are not the ones responsible for our deficit crisis,” said Kind. “These furloughs are creating serious financial uncertainty for these employees and their families, and they are also slowing down economic growth.”Kind has repeatedly called for Congressional action to replace sequestration in its entirety with comprehensive, responsible legislation that protects our military and critical programs like Head Start, Meals on Wheels, job training services and others that are being harmed by sequester cuts.
07.09.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) congratulated Dr. Jeff Thompson, CEO of Gundersen Health System, for being honored as a “Champion of Change” at a White House ceremony held earlier today. This Climate and Health Champion of Change award is given to leaders who promote public health through environmental stewardship.“Dr. Thompson and the Gundersen Health System recognize the need to change the way that health care is delivered and how we pay for it, so we can get better outcomes for a better price. That includes the need to enhance energy efficiency in an energy-intensive business,” said Rep. Kind. “We can all be proud that the President sees the Gundersen model, under the leadership of Dr. Thompson, as the path forward to successful health care reform for our country.”Last month, Rep. Kind nominated Dr. Thompson for the award based on his national leadership in changing the way health care is delivered in America toward a more value-based system, and also based on his leadership in setting the national standard for promoting renewable energy, energy efficiency and sustainability programs within health care systems. Dr. Thompson has served as the CEO of Gundersen Health System for almost 12 years.“Gundersen Health is also setting the standard for making health systems more environmentally responsible,” continued Kind. “Under Dr. Thompson’s direction, Gundersen is moving toward the goal of being the first fully energy independent hospital in the country by next year, and is partnering with businesses and the community to encourage environmentally and economically sustainable business practices and economic growth.”Gundersen Health is developing its own energy infrastructure, using equipment owned by the health system instead of purchasing renewable power at premium rates. This initiative illustrates Gundersen’s commitment to lowering the cost of healthcare for the people and businesses that pay for it through socially responsible and environmentally friendly means.Gundersen Health has invested in a variety of renewable energy programs, including a biomass boiler, dairy digester, solar panels, wind farms and geothermal systems to provide a diverse portfolio of renewable resources to offer clean, green energy.
07.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) reacted to the recent news that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has exempted cranberries from the sugar regulations that threatened to minimize or eliminate the inclusion of cranberries in school breakfast and lunch programs. This past April, Kind joined a bipartisan group of elected officials from Wisconsin in sending a letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack outlining the critical nutritional value that cranberries offer our students.“I’m pleased that the USDA has recognized the important health benefits of cranberries, especially for young people,” said Rep. Kind. “Including them in national breakfast and lunch programs means more of our students can enjoy this delicious and nutritious fruit.” The letter detailed how cranberries are a source of fiber, vitamin C and disease-fighting antioxidants, and urged Secretary Vilsack to exempt cranberries from a rule proposal regarding sugar content in the “National School Lunch Program and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Standards for All Foods Sold in School as Required by the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010.”“Cranberries are a special food. They offer a range of vital nutrients, and unlike some other healthy foods, they taste so good that young people are more than happy to eat them,” concluded Kind. “I am pleased that the USDA has taken this important step, and I maintain that even more cranberries should be included in school breakfast and lunch programs.”
06.28.2013	Interest rates will double to 6.8% on July 1st if Congress doesn’t actWashington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)called on House majority leaders to cancel the upcoming holiday recess and take action to prevent the doubling of student loan interest rates. If Congress does not act this week, interest rates on federally subsidized Stafford student loans will jump from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st.“I strongly urge House leadership to cancel the upcoming recess and hold a vote that will stop these student loan interest rates from doubling,” said Rep. Kind.“It’s no wonder that Americans across the country have such a low opinion of Congress, if some members can’t even agree that affordable education is good for the economy and good for the future prosperity of our country.”Earlier this month, Rep. Kind signed a discharge petition—a procedural motion that frees up a bill that has been blocked in a Congressional committee—to force an up or down vote on the Student Loan Relief Act, a bill that would extend the 3.4% interest rate on Stafford loans until July 1, 2015.“Congress should not leave town for recess and allow more students to fall into a financial bind,” continued Kind. “Even worse, the Republican plan to address this issue would have made our students pay even higher interest rates, putting them deeper in debt. I voted against that plan because it’s just not fair to use our students’ money to pay down our national debt.”Wisconsin’s Third Congressional District is home to 14 colleges and universities, more than any other district in the state. A typical student in Wisconsin borrows over $26,000 to attend a four-year school, creating a serious, long-lasting financial strain for students and their families.“Every student should have an opportunity to obtain a higher education so that America can compete in a 21st century economy in which a growing number of jobs require a degree,” concluded Kind.
06.26.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) responded to a recent Health and Human Services (HHS) report finding that 77.8 million consumers nationwide saved $3.4 billion up front on their premiums as insurance companies operated more efficiently under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and that consumers will benefit from $500 million in rebates thanks to ACA reforms.“This is more proof that the Affordable Care Act is starting to deliver the health care reform that we need to rein in costs while providing the care that people need,” said Rep. Kind.“These are the kinds of tangible results that we’ll be seeing more of as the ACA continues to take effect.”The study determined that insurers will return more than $500 million to more than 8.5 million health insurance customers across America, thanks to an ACA requirement that carriers spend at least 80 cents of every premium dollar on medical care instead of administrative costs. More than 140,000 Wisconsin residents will benefit from over $3.5 million in rebates from insurance companies this summer, averaging $46 per family, thanks to the health care reform law.To stabilize premium rates, the Medical Loss Ratio standard (also known as the “80/20 rule”) requires insurers to spend at least 80 cents of every premium dollar on patient care and quality improvement. If they spend an excessive amount on administration and profits, they owe rebates back for the difference. Insurance companies that do not meet the standard will send consumers a notice informing them of how much the insurer did or did not spend on patient care or quality improvement, and how much will be returned to them as a rebate. “Families in Wisconsin and across the country are benefitting from the Affordable Care Act,” concluded Kind. “This new standard is increasing transparency and accountability, promoting better business practices and competition, and ensuring that health care consumers get real value for their health care dollars. But more work needs to be done to deliver better quality care at a better price.”
06.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) issued the following statement after today’s vote on the 2013 farm bill in the House of Representatives, known as the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act. The bill failed today in the House by a vote of 234-195, with Rep. Kind voting against the legislation.“This farm bill failed because it didn’t include the type of reform that I and others were pushing for to make the bill more fiscally responsible and more responsive to the needs of family farmers.“I represent one of the largest agricultural districts in the country, and like many farmers in Wisconsin, I know that many of our agriculture programs just aren’t working. I was optimistic that this Congress, filled with members who like to talk about fiscal responsibility and reform, would be able to produce a bill that delivers real reform for taxpayers and farmers alike. Unfortunately, the final bill wasn’t nearly strong enough for me to support.“I am proud of the work my colleagues and I did on issues like crop insurance reform, conservation efforts, and scaling back new commodity subsidy programs, and I am grateful to the bipartisan coalition that fought to reform our wasteful crop insurance programs. If the late Senator Bill Proxmire were still giving out his famous Golden Fleece Awards, our current crop insurance subsidies would be a sure winner. The federal government guarantees a 14% profit for insurance companies, with virtually no risk to the companies, while paying 100% of administrative and operating expenses for issuing the policies; if that’s not a Golden Fleece winner then I don’t know what is.“Today, we voted down a flawed bill that was bad for farmers and bad for taxpayers. Moving forward, I will continue my efforts to create a more equitable safety net for family farmers, reform outdated agriculture policies, and protect American taxpayers from funding wasteful subsidy payments.”
06.18.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against H.R. 1797,a dangerous and divisive bill aimed at restricting the reproductive freedom of women.“Congress could be working on creating new jobs or addressing the national deficit, but instead the House Majority is working to restrict the health options of women with a dangerous new bill that isn’t even constitutional,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill is a brazen attempt to block a woman’s access to a safe and legal medical procedure, and is an attack on the judgment of women and their doctors regarding a deeply personal decision.”This bill aims to ban abortions after 20 weeks, with no exception to protect a woman’s health and inadequate exceptions for rape and incest. An estimated 1.5 percent of abortions occur after 20 weeks, often in cases where the woman is facing challenging personal circumstances such as carrying a pregnancy with severe anomalies which are sometimes not diagnosed until after 20 weeks.The bill is also clearly unconstitutional according to established Supreme Court precedents, as it bans pre-viability abortions and does not provide an exception to the ban that would protect a woman’s health.The vote today in Congress comes a week after Governor Scott Walker and Republicans in the Wisconsin State Legislature pushed forward a bill mandating unnecessary, invasive ultrasounds for women considering their medical options.“It is appalling that Republicans both in Madison and Washington have decided to prioritize attacking women’s reproductive rights,” concluded Kind. “This is just more evidence that the most extreme elements of the Republican Party are driving the agenda.”
06.07.2013	Please explore and utilize the tools and information available here concerning health care reform.
06.07.2013	Click here for a timeline of important dates regarding the health care reform.URL=(https://www.healthcare.gov/law/timeline/index.html)
06.05.2013	Representatives Lead Bipartisan Effort to Promote Health and Empower Local Communities WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Rep. Aaron Schock (R-IL) recently introduced the Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids (FIT Kids) Act and the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans Act. The two bills aim to improve the nation’s health, particularly the health of our young people, by strengthening physical education programs throughout the country.“Public health and physical fitness are pressing concerns for our country, and in order to get the best results it’s important to instill healthy habits and routines early in life,” said Rep. Kind. “Promoting good health, especially to kids, is something we all can do to help keep America competitive on the global stage because it's hard to develop a healthy mind without a healthy body.”The FIT Kids Actwill authorize grants to states to develop comprehensive, data-driven, and evidenced-based programs to address student physical health and well-being, fitness, and nutrition. Through these grants, schools will be able to implement or improve programs and monitor school-level conditions in order to promote physical activity and nutrition. It also helps local leaders access the information they need to improve physical education, supports student learning in a variety of motor skills and physical activities, bolsters professional development for health and physical education teachers, and promotes equal physical activity opportunities for students with disabilities.“It’s imperative that we work to strengthen our physical education programs so that our schools become environments that promote the lifetime benefits of physical activity,” said American Heart Association CEO Nancy Brown. “The Fit Kids and Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans Acts are critical steps towards ensuring that every student receives at least 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity daily, and we commend Representatives Kind and Schock for their important work on these two bills.”"The FIT Kids Act is very near and dear to my heart, having been an overweight child myself” said fitness icon Richard Simmons. “As a fitness professional and healthy adult, I know all too well, how important early education for both students and parents is. This bill is vital to every child's health, well being, self worth, focus and ability to learn. I say, let the kids sweat.....that's the best bet!!”A new report released by the independent nonprofit Institute of Medicine’s (IOM), titled “Educating the Student Body: Taking Physical Activity and Physical Education to School” confirms that schools are the frontlines for establishing healthy lifestyles and good public health. The report details the important role the school districts play in promoting physical activity and creating an environment where healthy living becomes a part of each student’s daily routine, goals that the FIT Kids Act aims to accomplish.The Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans Act requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to publish a report entitled “Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans” every ten years. The report will contain physical activity information and guidelines for the general public, and be promoted by federal agencies that promote good health. Guidelines will be based on current scientific and medical knowledge and should include guidelines for specific groups, including children. The bill is supported by the Sports & Fitness Industry Association and the American College of Sports Medicine.
06.04.2013	Washington, DC – Last night, the U.S. House passed the Permanent Electronic Duck Stamp Act, authored by Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Rob Wittman (R-VA), on a bipartisan vote of 401-0. This legislation aims to make federal duck stamps permanently available for purchase online.“For decades, the sale of duck stamps has generated critical funding for habitat protection and wildlife conservation,” said Rep. Kind. “Making duck stamps available for purchase online means greater convenience and accessibility for hunters, collectors and outdoor enthusiasts, and more revenue for the important conservation efforts that duck stamps support.”This modernization of the program would allow sportsmen across the country to more easily obtain a federal duck stamp, rather than requiring an in-person visit to a local post office. Sale and distribution of federal duck stamps fund conservation of vital waterfowl habitat across the country. For 79 years, millions of Americans have strongly supported the Federal Duck Stamp Program. Each year, hunters, bird watchers, stamp collectors and wildlife enthusiasts have traveled to their local post offices, National Wildlife Refuges and sporting goods stores to obtain their annual stamp. Since 1934, more than 120 million federal duck stamps have been sold nationwide. With the sale of these stamps, more than $800 million has been collected and deposited into the Migratory Bird Conservation Fund. These monies have been used to purchase or lease over 5.3 million acres of vital wetlands and essential waterfowl habitat that have been incorporated within the National Wildlife Refuge System.Unlike many states, however, which allow consumers to obtain their annual fishing and hunting licenses online, there was no authority to purchase a federal duck stamp online. With the passage of Rep. Kind’s Electronic Duck Stamp Act of 2005, the Federal Duck Stamp Program took a technological step forward. This law established a three-year pilot program to allow individuals to purchase their stamps online, and the Fish and Wildlife Service was directed to evaluate the effectiveness of this new electronic program.This legislation would make the online purchase of federal duck stamps a permanent feature of federal law. Just like the pilot program, the electronic proof of purchase will both fulfill the requirements for waterfowl hunters to possess the stamp and allow visitors free access to our nation’s 553 national wildlife refuges. After 45 days, the proof of purchase will expire and the purchasers must possess the traditional paper stamp to receive its full benefit.The Permanent Electronic Duck Stamp Act is supported by conservation organizations, including Ducks Unlimited and the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation.
06.04.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) harshly criticized the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) following the release of a report by the Treasury Department’s inspector general that found nearly $50 million in tax dollars were spent on at least 220 employee conferences between 2010 and 2012.“Public servants at every level of government need to live up to the trust that has been given them by the American people. Unfortunately, this report shows that some employees at the IRS are once again breaking that trust,” said Rep. Kind.“Anyone charged with managing our hard-earned tax dollars should do so in the most responsible and prudent manner possible. The IRS needs to become a place where those standards are met in every department, at every level.”The report details instances of IRS personnel spending an alarming amount of tax dollars to host employee conferences, which included lavish hotel rooms, tickets for sporting events and expensive guest speaker fees.Kind, who has returned a portion of his federal office budget every year to the U.S. Treasury (totaling over $1.4 million returned since coming to Congress), called on the IRS to make immediate internal reforms to prevent such expenditures from happening in the future.“Public trust in the IRS is at a critically low level. The IRS needs to rebuild that trust, starting by changing the way they do business and putting a stop to these wasteful expenditures immediately,” concluded Kind. “The House Ways and Means Committee should hold a hearing to get to the bottom of what happened here, and in any other cases where taxpayer dollars are wasted in this manner.”
05.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC–U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) introduced legislation to posthumously award Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor. Lt. Cushing, a Wisconsin-born Civil War hero, played a pivotal role in the Union victory at Gettysburg. July 1-3 of this year marks the 150th anniversary of that battle.A native of Delafield, WI, Cushing is best remembered for his actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg when he helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. On July 3, 1863, the third day of battle, Cushing commanded 110 men and six cannons positioned on Cemetery Ridge. They received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. In a period of just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and Cushing himself was wounded though he refused to withdraw from the field. He continued to fight, and sustained two more wounds before finally succumbing to his injuries.“It’s an honor to fight for the memory of Lieutenant Cushing and help award him the medal he deserves,” said Rep. Kind. “Even 150 years later, it’s never too late to do the right thing, especially as we prepare to honor the memories of all our soldiers this Memorial Day.”"Lt. Cushing was a courageous leader who gave his life to protect our sovereign nation,” Rep. Sensenbrenner said. “This brave soldier from Wisconsin should be awarded the Medal of Honor for his heroic service.”Recommendations for the Medal of Honor must be formally made within two years of the heroic action and awarded within three years. This bill, strongly backed by the Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War, makes it possible to waive this requirement with an act of Congressional approval and the President’s signature.
05.23.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against the “Making College More Expensive Act” (H.R. 1911), a bill that increases interest rates on federal student loans.“Making college harder to afford is one of the most shortsighted actions that Congress could make. We should be able to agree that preparing our students to compete in the global economy is a smart investment,” said Rep. Kind. “I have the privilege of representing 14 colleges and universities in the Third Congressional District, and I’ll do whatever I can to keep higher education affordable.”Interest rates on federal subsidized Stafford student loans are scheduled to jump from 3.4 % to 6.8% on July 1st, but rather than address that dramatic increase, H.R. 1911 is a “bait and switch” that could actually make loans even more expensive and add to the student debt crisis that already tops $1.1 trillion dollars. According to estimates provided by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), federal student interest rates will be higher than current fixed rates for millions of borrowers for seven of the next ten years. The bill makes student loan interest rates change every year based on market rates, with a mark up between 2.5% to 4.5%. Because interest rates on federal student loans taken out next year will be reset every year, interest rates for next year’s freshman class are projected to be as high as 7.4%, more than double today’s current 3.4% rate for subsidized Stafford loans. “Paying for college can create serious financial strain. Here in Wisconsin, a typical student borrows over $26,000 to attend a four-year school, meaning that paying for college can last years or decades. Congress needs to act now before more students get caught in a financial bind,” concluded Kind. “We need to make a short term fix to prevent these rates from doubling, but we also need long term solutions to avoid skyrocketing interest rate hikes in the future.”
05.21.2013	Walker’s rejection of Medicaid expansion to cost $73.5 million more than previously estimatedWashington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) blasted the continuing fiscal irresponsibility of Gov. Walker,citing the memo recently released by the nonpartisan Legislative Fiscal Bureau (LFB) stating that Gov. Scott Walker’s decision to reject federal Medicaid through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will cost the State of Wisconsin $73.5 million more than previously estimated.“We knew at the time that the Governor’s decision to reject federal help based on partisan ideology was going to hurt Wisconsin families, and now we know that the damage will be even worse than first thought,” said Rep. Kind. “Gov. Walker’s budgetary and fiscal malpractice keeps harming our state’s economic growth while making it harder for children, seniors and the disabled to get the care they need.”This latest news comes on the heels of a Jackson Hewitt Tax Service study released this spring, estimating that Wisconsin employers could face federal penalties of up to $36.1 million per year thanks to Gov. Walker’s decision to reject the federal dollars for Medicaid. Some employers would have to pay a high tax for each worker covered by a federal health care exchange, but accepting the federal expansion would allow local businesses to avoid these burdensome, unnecessary costs.“Governor Walker’s rejection of federal Medicaid expansion through the ACA is going to result in vulnerable Wisconsinites being left without any coverage, higher costs for businesses that have to provide health coverage, and a greater burden on Wisconsin taxpayers,” Kind concluded.“This is yet more evidence that Governor Walker cares more about political games than he does about Wisconsin families who are struggling to pay for health care.”
05.20.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind(D-WI) announced today that his office is now accepting applications from individuals interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies. Students must submit their applications by Friday, October 18, 2013.“I am always impressed by the motivated, disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate outstanding students from western and central Wisconsin to become the military leaders of the future, and I’m looking forward to meeting this year’s applicants.”A congressional nomination is required for students wishing to enter the:· U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York· U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland· U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado· U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New YorkThe application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance the following year.Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting MarkAumann in Rep. Ron Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official Web site: www.kind.house.gov
05.17.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement today following his questioning of the former Acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller at today’s Ways and Means Committee hearing:“It’s critical that an agency like the IRS conducts itself in a manner that is beyond reproach. Americans should be able to have confidence that the workers charged with managing their tax dollars are conducting themselves without a hint of bias, partisanship, or animosity towards any individual or any organization. “In my questions to former Acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller, I raised the issue of further steps that IRS should take to improve accountability beyond his resignation. I also suggested that Congress should be available to assist the IRS in making the needed changes to ensure that nothing like this ever happens again.“The IRS needs to restore trust with the American people. It needs to determine exactly what happened in this particular case so that any mismanagement, incompetence or misapplication of the law can be corrected. It’s important, however, to avoid casting blame on the entire agency, since the evidence shows that only a small number of employees were at fault and that there is no indication of engagement in creating the questionable criteria by IRS executives oranyone in the executive branch.”
05.16.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today against the latest attempt (H.R. 45) by the House majority to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), the health care reform law that expands health care to millions of Americans and lowers the deficit by reining in health care costs.“This vote was a political ploy to take away critical patient protections and health benefits from America’s families, seniors, and women,” said Rep. Kind. “In this pointless attempt to undermine health care reform, the majority has accomplished nothing more than wasting over $52 million in taxpayer dollars by forcing these repeal votes that are doomed to fail in the Senate, while shifting the focus away from creating jobs and fixing the sequester.”This vote marks the 37th time that the House majority has attempted to repeal or defund the ACA, a pointless effort they continue to push even after the Supreme Court upheld the law as constitutional. Thanks to health care reform, children no longer face discrimination due to pre-existing conditions, students and young adults are gaining coverage through their parents’ plans, seniors are paying less for prescription drugs, and families are receiving rebates from insurance companies.The ACA is already benefiting Wisconsin families. A recently released Committee on Energy and Commerce minority report found that without the ACA, drug costs for over 63,500 Wisconsin seniors would be $46.4 million higher and 43,000 young adults would not have had coverage through their parents’ plans. Furthermore, 968,000 women and 482,000 seniors and people with disabilities in the state would not have received free preventive care, and 283,000 people would not have received $10.4 million in rebates from their insurance companies.“Health care reform is working for American families and small businesses,” concluded Kind. “Americans are looking to move forward. Let’s put these old political battles behind us, and start addressing pressing issues like growing the economy and reducing the deficit.”
05.15.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)and Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI) along with six of their colleagues today introduced the Assisting Family Farmers through Insurance Reform Measures (AFFIRM) Act.The AFFIRM Act makes bold reforms to crop insurance premium subsidy payments, saves taxpayer dollars and promotes transparency.“The current crop insurance system is extremely wasteful and in need of major reform. The AFFIRM Act will save taxpayers $11 billion over 10 years while still providing a strong safety net for family farmers,” said Rep. Kind.“Unlike other subsidies, Congress does not know who receives crop insurance subsidies. Taxpayers deserve to know where their tax dollars are going, and the AFFIRM Act will make that possible.”The AFFIRM Act limits the total value of crop insurance subsidies to $40,000 per person each year, eliminates crop insurance premium subsidies for individuals with an adjusted gross income (AGI) of more than $250,000, andrequires more of the administrative and operating (A&O) costs to be shared by the private companies that offer coverage. It also limits renegotiation of the Standard Reinsurance Agreement (SRA) and lowers the “target rate of return” that USDA builds into premiums in order to guarantee long-term profitability for crop insurance companies.“I’m glad to be a part of this bipartisan effort to make important changes to the crop insurance program,” said Rep. Petri. “Currently, the federal government subsidizes roughly 62% of farmers’ crop insurance premiums at a cost of $9 billion a year. But America’s small farmers received only 27% of the subsidies. This bill keeps in place a safety net for farmers who need assistance, while ensuring the program is not exploited at a cost to taxpayers.” These reforms would be put in place while bringing more transparency into the crop insurance program by requiring the reporting of all parties that receive federally subsidized crop insurance. From 2001 to 2012, crop insurance companies enjoyed $10.3 billion in underwriting gains while taxpayers suffered a net loss of $276 million. Over 4,200 farmers received more than $100,000 in premium subsidies in 2011 and 26 received more than $1 million in subsidies. In contrast, the bottom 80 percent of policyholders received only 27 percent of subsidies in 2011, with an average subsidy of around $5,000. The AFFIRM Act allows family farmers to continue relying on crop insurance while ending subsidies for large agribusinesses that have the ability to manage risk without heavily subsidized coverage.The AFFIRM Act has the support of a wide range of stakeholders in the agriculture community, including the Environment Working Group (EWG; view their letter of support here), US PIRG, and a coalition of 12 leading conservative organizations (view their letter of support here). Joining Reps. Kind and Petri in sponsoring the bill are Reps. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Jim McGovern (D-MA), and Henry Waxman (D-CA)."Taxpayers should never be kept in the dark about where their dollars are going — plain and simple," said Scott Faber, Environment Working Group's vice president for government affairs. "That's why EWG is proud to support a bill that will reform our heavily subsidized crop insurance to increase transparency for taxpayers, level the playing field for farmers, and improve the environment for future generations. Our families, our food and our land are worth protecting." “Taxpayers for Common Sense appreciates the leadership of Reps. Kind and Petri in making subsidized crop insurance more cost-effective, targeted toward need, and accountable to taxpayers,” said Ms. Ryan Alexander, President of Taxpayers for Common Sense. “The common sense measures in the AFFIRM Act would bring subsidized crop insurance in line with other taxpayer financed supports for agriculture and are an important step toward creating a more effective and efficient agricultural safety net.”"As the largest subsidy to farmers, crop insurance is in dire need of reforms to make the program more targeted and accountable to taxpayers,” said Andrew Moylan, Senior Fellow with the R Street Institute. “The AFFIRM Act does exactly that by establishing a modest payment limit and means test, by reducing subsidies for industry, and by providing full transparency. Republicans and Democrats have strong disagreements, but they should unite around this common sense legislation. We applaud Representatives Kind and Petri for leading on this important issue in a bipartisan fashion." -30-
05.10.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today released the following statement following Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood’s announcement that the recently enacted Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013, supported by Rep. Kind, will allow the FAA to transfer the funds needed to end employee furloughs and keep the 149 targeted contract towers open for the remainder of fiscal year 2013. Included on that list of towers are those at the La Crosse Municipal Airport, the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and the Central Wisconsin Airport in Mosinee.“I am extremely pleased to hear that these air traffic towers have been spared from their scheduled closings, and I commend Secretary LaHood for overseeing the process.“This is good news for the traveling public, local businesses and our military forces, but this fix only brings us to the end of September when the current fiscal year ends. We will have to continue fighting for these air towers until a permanent resolution can be found.“The sequester ushered in a painful era of stupid spending cuts, and I’ll keep fighting for a comprehensive, responsible legislative solution that protects the students, seniors and so many others who have been harmed by these cuts.”
05.09.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) and Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA)held an event today to introduce the Balancing Food, Farm, and Environment Act (the Balancing Act), legislation that updates the Farm Bill’s conservation title to reflect the needs of today’s agricultural system and a new set of federal government priorities.“I have been a champion of conservation in the Farm Bill since I first came to Congress, and the Balancing Act represents the comprehensive reform we need,” said Rep. Kind. “Our bill creates a more effective and fiscally responsible conservation title by targeting limited resources to higher impact projects and the family farmers who need help the most.” American farmers strongly embrace conservation efforts, but the current conservation title is outdated and no longer addresses America’s most important priorities. It is also difficult for farmers to navigate and forces a one-size-fits-all policy on a varied landscape. The Balancing Act more effectively uses taxpayer dollars by streamlining 23 conservation programs into 11, encourages local and regional partnerships that promote conservation, and provides support and technical assistance to help farmers meet modern-day challenges like food safety concerns and water quality issues.The legislation, co-sponsored by 13 members of Congress from across the country, prioritizes investment for our most pressing conservation issues, including helping farmers address a changing climate, ensuring that wetlands and grasslands are conserved, and reducing pesticide use. The Balancing Act provides supports for organic farming, by assisting farmers looking to transition to organics and allocating funds that support conservation efforts related to organic food production.“As the Member representing the largest cooperative of organic producers in the Nation, I fully support the measures in the bill that help those producers choosing to transition to organics,” concluded Kind. “By incorporating performance-based, rather than practice-based standards, and reducing paperwork and red tape through program consolidation, all family farmers will benefit from this long-needed reform bill.”
05.09.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against H.R. 807, the “debt prioritization” bill that prioritizes payingbondholders from China and other countries ahead of those who rely on federal funding, in the event that the House majority causes a default of our nation’s debts.“This bill has very little to do with fiscal responsibility. Congress needs to come to conference on a budget and craft a real deficit reduction deal, instead of pushing legislation that signals to global markets that the United States will default on our obligations for the very first time in our nation's history,” said Rep. Kind. “Instead the House majority is playing political games with an ill-conceived bill that could send the markets into a tailspin, and leave people wondering ‘who will the U.S. not pay next?’”H.R. 807 plans for a default, and is a rerun of the same GOP-manufactured economic uncertainty that harmed American workers and businesses during the debt ceiling debacle two years ago. During the summer of 2011, when Congress just talked about the possibility of not paying our obligations, our previously-triple A-rated credit score was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s, the Dow Jones plunged 2,000 points in July and August, and August 2011 was the single-worst month for job-creation in the last three years.The bill would guarantee payments to some Treasury bondholders in a default. In doing so, however, it risks not paying scores of Americans, including 1.4 million active duty troops and 780,000 activated reserves and National Guard, 3.4 million disabled veterans, 1.3 million veterans who receive education or home purchasing assistance, 1.1 million doctors and other health care practitioners who provided health care to seniors with Medicare, and almost 32 million children who rely on school lunches.“Prioritization equals default, which jeopardizes the full faith and credit of the United States,” concluded Kind. “I have trouble believing that we are even considering this self-inflicted wound on American citizens and our economy.” -30-
05.06.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)joined a bipartisan group of 83 colleagues in sending a letter to Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood to direct some of their unobligated funds, made flexible through the Reducing Flight Delays Act that passed the House last week, to prevent 149 air traffic control towers from closing on June 15th. Towers slated for closure include those at the La Crosse Municipal Airport, the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and the Central Wisconsin Airport in Mosinee.“I continue working to prevent the closure of these towers because closing them will lead to reduced aviationsafety, stalled economic activity and weakened national security,” said Rep. Kind.“The Department of Transportation needs to act now and direct these funds to the towers to keep them open and operational.”The legislation passed in late April, supported by Rep. Kind and signed into law by President Obama, gives the Federal Aviation Administration and the Department of Transportation flexibility to use unobligated funds to ensure the safety of our nation’s air transportation system. The funds could be used to prevent the closure of the 149 contract air traffic control towers and halt the furloughs of our air traffic controllers.Rep. Kind has frequently written letters and spoken publicly about the need to keep the towers open, citing the important roles they play beyond providing excellent service to the flying public. Kind has also made it clear that he wants to replace sequestration in its entirety with comprehensive, responsible legislation that protects Head Start, Meals on Wheels, job training services and other critical programs that are being harmed by sequester cuts. The letter is available online here.
05.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)reacted to the news this week that United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) intends to purchase $5 million of cranberry concentrate for federal nutrition assistance programs, including food banks.Kind recently joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in sending a letter to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack urging him to purchase cranberries to help bring stability to commodity prices.“After last year’s record cranberry harvest, it’s critical that the USDA utilizes the programs in place to ensure that global markets are not flooded with U.S. cranberries and that commodity prices are not driven down even further,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m very pleased that Wisconsin cranberry producers will receive help from the USDA to ease some of the uncertainty brought by the high Canadian harvest and global uncertainty. Not only will the rural economy benefit from the move by the USDA, but food assistance programs will be able to offer healthy cranberry products.” The letter, signed by Kind and a bipartisan group of Representatives from Wisconsin and other cranberry-producing states, detailed the current unfavorable market conditions for the cranberry industry. The group urged the USDA to make a large purchase of cranberries as a response to the pressure put on cranberry prices by 2012’s record harvest and the effect of Canadian exports. The letter stated that for almost half of all cranberry growers in the United States, farm-level prices will be below the cost of production."I commend the USDA for making the decision to purchase cranberries. This announcement is welcome news not just for cranberry growers, but for all the people who will now benefit from the nutritional value of cranberries,” concluded Kind.The letter is available online here.
05.02.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced this week that he is returning $81,326 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the deficit. Rep. Kind has donated a portion of his congressional budget every year since taking office, for a grand total of over $1.4 million returned to taxpayers.“Every year I look at my budget for ways to save taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Kind. “My commitment to fiscal responsibility starts in my office, where I have control over how money is spent. I’m proud to say that every year I’ve been able to return taxpayer dollars to the Treasury, while still making sure that my office provides top-notch constituent services.”Kind’s commitment to fiscal responsibility extends far beyond his annual budget givebacks. Since coming to Congress, Rep. Kind has adhered to a set of budgetary principles that aim to set America on a more sustainable fiscal path. He has opposed the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress, worked to simplify the tax code, and fought to cut wasteful and unnecessary federal spending in areas such as health care, defense spending and farm subsidies.“Congress needs to deal with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt so that future generations aren’t stuck with our unpaid bills,” said Rep. Kind. “I am committed to making the tough decisions to cut wasteful spending while protecting investments needed for economic growth. Wisconsin families know how to manage their budgets and that’s precisely the kind of discipline we need in Washington.”
04.26.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)made the following statement after voting today to give the Department of Transportation (DOT) the flexibility to transfer funds that will prevent the staffing shortages in air traffic control towers that have been causing widespread flight delays across America. The bill allows for the transfer of up to $253 million from various accounts to avoid reductions of staff and operations through Sept. 30. Ultimately, the bill is expected to reduce the delays that travelers began to experience this week at airports across the country related to air traffic controller furloughs.“I voted for this legislation because it helps ease the pain that the sequester is causing for the American people,” said Rep. Kind. “I’ve said all along that ‘sequester’ is Latin for ‘stupid spending cuts’ and these airport delays are a perfect example of that.“Air tower furloughs caused major headaches this week, but the sequester’s impact will also be felt by generations to come. Across the country, over 70,000 kids are going to be denied access to Head Start and Early Head Start services, and Individuals with Disabilities Education (IDEA) programs won’t have the funding they need to servespecial-needs children. Additionally, low-income, minority and first-generation college students and those with disabilitieswill see 5 percent cuts to programs that help them afford college.“I can’t help but be a little cynical when I see Members of Congress jumping into action to rectify a problem that has a direct impact on them, but do nothing while young kids find themselves being shut out from programs like Head Start. When it comes to helping our young people, we only get one chance to give them the tools and skills they need for future success.“The scope of the sequester’s damage is both broad and deep. It’s time for Congress to pass comprehensive, responsible legislation to prevent any further damage.” -30-
04.25.2013	Washington, D.C.– U.S. Congressman Ron Kind (D-WI), Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX), Congressman Gene Green (D-TX), Congressman Michael C.Burgess, M.D. (R-TX), Congresswoman Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), and Congressman Ed Whitfield (R-KY) led a bipartisan group of more than 100 of their House colleagues in sending a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) asking for information regarding its implementation of the two percent sequester cut to Medicare payments to providers. The lawmakers expressed particular concern for its impact on Medicare Part B drugs – specifically chemotherapy and other specialty infusible drugs.“We’re calling on CMS to do whatever they can to ease the burden of the sequester on people bravely fighting cancer,” said Kind. “We need to take action now, before more patients lose access to life-saving cancer drugs.” The letter urged CMS to clarify to Congress both its statutory authority to reduce Medicare Part B drug reimbursement and its understanding of Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance directing federal agencies to use any available flexibility when implementing the sequestration spending cuts to reduce operational risks and minimize its impact on the American people. Moreover, the bipartisan letter challenged CMS to use what flexibility it has available to direct the cuts away from patients.The pricing for cancer drugs covered under Medicare Part B is a formula – Average Sales Price (ASP) plus six percent – intended to reimburse cancer clinics and other providers for their drug acquisition costs at average market rates. This reimbursement formula is comprised of both the fixed cost of the drug – ASP – and an additional physician services payment – six percent – that covers costs for inventory, facilities, storage, handling and waste disposal associated with these drugs.The letter, which was signed by 124 Members, was submitted to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) on Tuesday, April 23, 2013.The letter is available online here.
04.19.2013	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR)re-introduced legislation to put an end to the $147 million in taxpayer dollars going to the Brazilian cotton agribusiness each year. “Spending millions upon millions of taxpayer dollars to subsidize Brazil’s cotton industry is absurd public policy,” said Rep. Kind.“Congress needs to get its priorities straight to ensure a fiscally responsible, smart food and farm bill for the 21st century. We need to act now, because the Agriculture Committees have shown that they are unwilling to make the commonsense reforms needed to eliminate these outrageous payouts.”This legislation stops all payments to the Brazilian Cotton Institute, and puts pressure on the House and Senate Agriculture Committees to make the necessary reforms to be World Trade Organization (WTO) compliant to ensure that American goods, services, and intellectual property aren’t subject to future trade retaliations.“Our subsidy program in the US, particularly in the case of the Brazil cotton payout, only serves to coddle corporate agribusiness here in the U.S.,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “It’s time for us to get our own house in order, rather than pay out millions of dollars each year to Brazilian farmers. This legislation is an important step in reducing the cost of the cotton program to the American taxpayer, while simultaneously encouraging reform.”In 2008, Brazil successfully argued before the WTO that U.S. agriculture subsidies to cotton producers violated WTO agreements. Following the WTO’s ruling, instead of reforming the cotton program when facing retaliatory tariffs and sanctions from Brazil, Congress and the Administration agreed to pay the Brazilian cotton industry $147.3 million a year – the amount determined as the losses Brazilians incur as a result of U.S. cotton subsidies.
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, announced the winners of the 17th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest. “This year’s competition drew entries from across the Third Congressional District, showcasing just how talented and ambitious our young artists are here in western and central Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s a real pleasure to honor these outstanding artists and celebrate the great work they have done.” The winners are: 1st PlaceCorina Strait, La Farge High School “Truck Yeah” Best in ShowDevon Lee, La Crosse Logan High School “Sound” 3rd PlaceRyan Herken, La Farge High School “Gracie” 4th PlaceClaire Firary, La Crosse Logan High School “Self-Portrait” Honorable MentionsGreta Gunnarson, La Crosse Central High School “The Coast” Cody Harris, La Farge High School “296 Frogs” Chiara Ruff, Aquinas High School “The Lamb-eyed Lion” Andie West, La Farge High School“Pieces of Me” Rose von Muchow, La Crosse Logan High School“Devon I” Jenna Wegner, La Farge High School “Home is Where the Heart Is” Macy Hembd, La Crosse Logan High SchoolUntitled Bethany Parr, La Crosse Central High SchoolUntitled Soren Johnson, La Crosse Logan High SchoolUntitled Kaila Larson, La Crosse Logan High School“Choose Happiness” The first-place entry, “Truck Yeah” by La Farge senior Corina Strait, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second- place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while the third and fourth-place works will be hung in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of our region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western and central Wisconsin.
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C., April 16, 2013 – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)was awarded the Champion of Science Award by the Science Coalition in recognition of his commitment to funding the research that keeps Wisconsin and the U.S. at the forefront of scientific discovery and technological innovation.“It’s an honor to receive this award from the Science Coalition, a group that is doing great work ensuring that our country stays on the cutting edge of technological and scientific research,” said Rep. Kind.“I will continue to fight for policies that strengthen education and invest in research to ensure that America will always be an innovative leader in the global marketplace.”The Science Coalition is comprised of the nation’s leading public and private research universities, dedicated to sustaining strong federal funding of basic scientific research to bolster the economy, spur innovation and drive America’s global competitiveness.Since coming to Congress, Rep. Kind has been committed to keeping Wisconsin and America on the cutting edge of scientific innovation. He was a strong supporter of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010 and hasfought for key investments in higher education, and in basic and applied research. He’s been an ardent supporter of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education to prepare students for high-paying tech jobs of the future. Kind also co-authored an op-ed last week with UW-La Crosse Chancellor Joe Gow about the incredible undergraduate research being done across Wisconsin."Support for science is vital. New knowledge is the basis of our future economy, as well as for things we care deeply about such as improved health care and medicine," said University of Wisconsin-Madison Interim Chancellor David Ward. "Support from Congressman Kind and others is critical for us. It will help us succeed and deliver on the promise of modern science."“Congressman Kind is a stalwart champion of scientific research and innovation. He understands the important relationship between federal investments in education and research and America’s ability to create jobs, grow our economy and compete globally,” said Science Coalition President Tim Leshan of Northeastern University.-30-
04.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)voted today against H.R. 1120, an anti-labor bill that effectively shuts down the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The NLRB is charged with resolving differences between business and labor.“I grew up in a union household on the north side of La Crosse, so I take particular exception to efforts to weaken the labor movement and the working families it represents,” said Kind. “This is just an ideologically driven strategy that undermines America's economic competitiveness, creates uncertainty in the workplace and destabilizes labor relations.”Both workers and employers rely on the NLRB to enforce American labor laws. This bill would prevent the NLRB from issuing new decisions, enforcing existing decisions, or advancing any rulemaking that prevents unfair labor practices or defends the right of workers to join a union and bargain collectively. These changes would have the ultimate effect of stopping labor law enforcement, halting union elections, and promoting strikes.“The National Labor Relations Board is widely seen as the last line of defense for workers,” Kind concluded. “Congress should be focused on creating jobs right now, not attacking unions and the NLRB.”
04.12.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)is cosponsoring the Air Traffic Control Tower Funding Restoration Act (H.R. 1432), a bipartisan bill that restores funding to the control towers that are slated to be shut down by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).“I’m cosponsoring this legislation because closing these air traffic control towers would harm economic development, national security and passenger safety,” said Kind. “The sequester has forced a lot of reckless cuts, but to shut down these towers is especially shortsighted.”The bill would restore funding to all 149 towers slated for closure using unobligated funds within the FAA budget. No new funds would need to be appropriated in this fiscal year.The FAA recently announced that the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport and the La Crosse Municipal Airport are on their list of scheduled tower closures. Recently, those closures were postponed until June 15. Kind has sent letters and spoken publicly about the need to keep both towers, pointing to the important roles they play beyond providing excellent service to the flying public.“I’ve been working to prevent the closure of these towers and I’ll be fighting to get this legislation passed in the House, on behalf of the businesses, residents and uniformed men and womenwho rely on these airports,” Kind concluded.
04.10.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after the release of President Obama’s budget:“The President’s budget restarts the conversation we need to have right now, one that shouldn’t be about ‘big’ or ‘small’ government, but about ‘smart’ government. A government that is responsive to the needs of the people it serves, but always managed in a balanced, fiscally responsible manner.“To meet that goal, the President is right to call for the consolidation or elimination of up to 215 federal programs that are redundant or duplicative, such as the 220 science education programs that are currently spread over 13 federal agencies. These moves could result in $25 billion in savings next year. Since my days doing research for Senator William Proxmire’s ‘Golden Fleece’ awards I’ve worked to identify and end wasteful government spending, so I strongly support the President’s efforts to streamline government and reduce waste.“The President’s budget also prioritizes initiatives that lay the groundwork for improved economic competitiveness in the global marketplace, including Head Start, higher education, job training programs and broadband expansion. Pro-growth programs that invest in America’s human capital need our support now, because we won’t get a second chance to invest in our students and our workforce.”
04.03.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)reacted to the recent news that implementation of important parts of the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Exchanges, which would make health insurance more available and affordable for small businesses and their employees, has been delayed. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has proposed eliminating the ability of employees to select the plan of their choice through SHOP Exchanges for 2014. Small businesses will instead only be able to choose one plan until 2015 under the HHS proposal.“I’m disappointed to learn that this critical help for small businesses to afford health insurance will be delayed,” said Kind. “Small businesses and workers need health care options so they can decide which plan is best for their needs and their budgets, and delaying those choices will mean higher costs for coverage.”The SHOP Act helps make health insurance more affordable for self-employed individuals and small businesses, including family farmers. SHOP Exchanges included in health care reform allow small business employees to pool their buying power so that plans have to compete for their business and workers can comparison shop among a variety of plans and prices so they have the same type of quality, affordable coverage now available only through large employers. First introduced by Rep. Kind in 2008, the SHOP Act has consistently won balanced, bipartisan Congressional support as well as support from a broad coalition of labor and business groups.Wisconsin will be hard-hit by the delay, thanks to Governor Scott Walker’s decision to rely on the federal government to operate the health care exchange instead of setting up a state-based exchange. States that decided to operate their own exchanges will have more freedom to offer coverage through SHOP exchanges starting next year.“The benefits offered in the SHOP Act would be of great value to Wisconsin’s small businesses and workers,” Kind continued. “This news is further evidence that Governor Walker was wrong to play political games and oppose the creation of state-based exchanges. I encourage the Department of Health and Human Services to expedite the process of creating all parts of the SHOP Exchanges, since further delay will make it harder for small businesses and employees to find affordable coverage.”Kind also noted that the Affordable Care Act does not require small businesses with fewer than 50 employees to provide coverage to their workers, although small businesses that do offer coverage will be eligible for a larger 50 percent tax credit to make coverage more affordable starting in 2014.
03.21.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI)voted today against the Republican Budget proposed by Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). This unbalanced plan prioritizeshuge tax breaks for millionairesand special interests over protecting investments for working families and the safety net for our seniors and the most vulnerable Americans.“There are much smarter ways to balance our budget than by cutting critical investments in health care, education and economic development,” said Kind.“We need to reduce spending and get our budget deficits under control but the Ryan Plan is blatantly unbalanced in favor of the wealthiest among us. If the majority party was serious about balancing the budget, then almost one-third of the plan’s budget cuts wouldn’t be unspecified.”The Republican Budget calls for repealing the coverage expansions and consumer protections in the Affordable Care Act while counting on the law’s savings and new revenues to balance their budget. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office analyzed a nearly identical Medicare voucher proposal last year and found that the Ryan Budget could cost seniors up to an additional $2,200 per person by 2030 and up to $8,000 more per year by 2050.The plan also calls for converting Medicaid into a block grant and slashing federal funding for the program by $810 billion over the next ten years, which would cut Medicaid funding by almost one third by 2023.“The Ryan Budget doesn’t address the high cost of health care, and shifts costs onto seniors and future retirees,” Kind continued. “What we should do to lower costs is pay providers based on the quality and value of care they deliver instead of the number of services performed.”The Ryan Budget also hurts students by cutting Pell Grant funding by $98 billion over 10 years and lets student loan interest rates double in July, from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent. The Republican plan also dramatically cuts elementary and secondary education programs.“Gutting funding for our schools will have a lasting economic impact that will put America behind in the global economy,” concludedKind. “This plan could cost two million jobs next year and increase middle class taxes by as much as $3,000. The American people want and deserve better than more tax breaks for the wealthy and cuts to critical investments that impact middle-class families.”
03.19.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) reacted strongly to the new Jackson Hewitt Tax Service study estimating that Wisconsin employers could face federal penalties of up to $36.1 million per year thanks to Governor Scott Walker’s decision to reject the federal dollars for Medicaid expansion provided to states through the Affordable Care Act (ACA).“Governor Walker has made it clear that he puts a higher priority on political gamesmanship than he does on the health and economic security of Wisconsin families,” said Kind. “Now we have a price tag to attach to his anti-Medicaid agenda, and Wisconsin employers are the ones paying the bill.”The governor has proposed putting residents with incomes above 100% of the federal poverty level into a federal health care exchange; if those Wisconsinites work for an employer with 50 or more full-time workers, that employer pays a $2-3,000 tax on each employee who gets coverage through the exchange. According to the Jackson Hewitt Tax Service study, that could apply to over 12,000 Wisconsin workers.“Taking the federal expansion means that state government and local businesses don’t incur unnecessary costs,” Kind continued. “Governor Walker could make life a lot easier for consumers who need access to health care, and in doing so, save Wisconsin businesses and taxpayers a lot of money in the process.“When Governor Walker refused the ACA Medicaid expansion, he denied coverage to175,000 low-income people and blocked the creation of up to 10,500 new Wisconsin jobs. And recent estimates found that Medicaid expansion would save Wisconsin up to $250 million between now and 2020, because the expansion is paid for by the ACA,” Kind concluded. “Walker’s disappointing decision to reject this deal hurts children, the disabled, seniors and employers. More and more people across Wisconsin are wondering whose side Governor Walker is really on.”
03.13.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against politically motivated legislation that would deny needed flexibility to our “welfare to work” programs.The bill, H.R. 890, was an effort to politicize the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program by eliminating certain waivers that give states flexibility in administering employment programs. Since last year, the majority party has attempted to make these waivers a political issue by claiming that they relax work requirements for welfare recipients, even though that claim has been repeatedly debunked by independent, non-partisan fact checkers.“This bill is a political stunt that comes at a time when we should be addressing serious issues that affect American families,” Kind said. “And the bill would actually move us backwards, since the waivers require more welfare recipients to join the workforce and create more innovative solutions to help people find jobs.” Last year, the Obama Administration’s Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) offered a plan to provide states with waivers that would allow increased flexibility to move more Americans from welfare to work. The proposal specifically called on states to place 20 percent more welfare recipients into the workforce as compared to previous years.For years, the concept behind these waivers has been embraced by elected officials on both sides of the aisle. In July of 2012, Republican Governor Gary Herbert of Utah emphasized the need for waivers in a letter to HHS, saying “some of [the TANF work] participation requirements are difficult and costly to verify, while other participation requirements do not lead to meaningful employment outcomes and are overly prescriptive. Utah suggested that we be evaluated on the basis of the state’s success in placing our customers in employment ...[and] this approach would require some flexibility at the state level and the granting of a waiver.”“The House majority opted to push a tired, discredited political attack that undermines the important task of helping people who need jobs find them,” Kind continued. “It’s a shame that they would make it harder for welfare recipients to find work just to score a few political points.”
03.11.2013	Washington, DC – Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Tom Reed (R-NY) are urging federal officials to take proactive steps to prevent Canada from imposing new barriers to U.S. dairy exports. Wisconsin and New York are well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in the Canadian market, but only if Canada does not move to block U.S. dairy imports.“Dairy exports are critical to Wisconsin’s economy, and Canada has long been a valued trading partner for both Wisconsin and the United States,” said Kind. “We need to act now to avoid damaging new trade policies that could harm our dairy farmers and weaken the flow of commerce between our two countries.”Congressmen Kind and Reed, along with members of the Wisconsin delegation including Reps. Sean Duffy, Gwen Moore, Tom Petri, Mark Pocan, Reid Ribble and Jim Sensenbrenner as well as members of the New York delegation sent a letter outlining concerns over the inaccessibility of the Canadian dairy market to U.S. dairy products to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the United States Trade Representative (USTR). Of particular concern is a possible change to Canadian cheese standards that would further restrict trade, in addition to a 2007 revision of the Cheese Compositional Standards (CCS) by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) that reduced opportunities for dairy sales from the U.S. to Canada.Wisconsin and New York are home to approximately 17,000 dairy producers who rely on export opportunities to help sustain their farms. In addition, both states have robust dairy manufacturing sectors, such as yogurt and cheese, that help provide stable jobs in rural areas.The letter is available online here.
03.11.2013	Nothing has made me more proud to be an American than seeing, firsthand, the job our troops do under difficult circumstances to keep our country safe. I had the chance to meet with Wisconsin's National Guard 1157th and General Allen, who couldn't be more thankful for the work our troops are doing.
03.06.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today opposed H.R. 933, a government funding bill that allowed Defense and Veterans Affairs Agencies the flexibility to prioritize spending while leaving the rest of the government to operate based on outdated fiscal year 2012 spending plans for this year’s needs.“Governing is about making tough but responsible choices. Unfortunately, today’s bill ignores Congress’s responsibility to make the hard decisions to set spending priorities,” said Kind.“What the majority proposed doing today was essentially ‘earmarking’ flexibility for two agencies while ignoring the need to make hard decisions with the rest of the federal budget,” Kind continued. “We should prioritize where we need to invest more and what we can afford to cut regarding all government spending. Instead, the majority today decided to leave 18-month-old spending plans in place for the vast majority of the government without any changes to eliminate wasteful spending or make important new investments based on the needs of today’s economy.“We shouldn’t allow one agency the flexibility to set new priorities and adapt to new circumstances, then turn around and tell another agency that it won’t have that freedom because they have to operate on an old budget,” concluded Kind. “This is not how our government is supposed to be operated.”
02.22.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, former member of the House Natural Resources Committee from 1997-2011, and Rep. Tim Walz, were recently selected as Co-Chairs of the Mississippi River Caucus. The Mississippi River Caucus leadership is made up of six co-chairs: Kind, Walz, U.S. Representatives Stephen Fincher (R-TN) and Rick Crawford (R-AR) as well as Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Tom Harkin (D-IA). The primary objective of the Mississippi River Caucus is to provide a bicameral and bipartisan forum for the various issues that affect the entire reach of the Mississippi River. The Caucus will focus on a strong sustainable economy and high quality of life for communities along the main stem of the Mississippi River. “The Mississippi River plays a vital role in our economy and our quality of life not just in western Wisconsin but in all of states along its path,” said Rep. Kind, founder and Co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force. “I’m proud to have worked hard on behalf of the river and the farms, businesses, and communities it impacts and look forward to the bipartisan progress we will be able to make as a caucus. Ensuring the protection of the river is vital to the long-term sustainability of the entire Mississippi River Basin.” “The Mississippi River is at the heart of both our nations shipping and sporting industries. For hundreds of years American made goods have followed the snakes and bends down the river’s path, while hunters and fisherman have followed its shores," said Rep. Tim Walz, Co-chair Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force and Ranking Member of the House Ag Subcommittee on Conservation, Energy, and Forestry. In order for American farmers and manufacturers to stay competitive in a 21st century world economy, we must ensure the Mississippi River continues to provide a safe, modern, efficient, and effective avenue for shipment while balancing the need to maintain its natural character for future generations of sportsmen.” The Mississippi River is the second longest river in the United States, stretching 2,320 miles through the heart of our nation from Lake Itasca in Minnesota to the Gulf of Mexico. The Mississippi River and its floodplain are rich in biodiversity, as it is home to hundreds of different species of fish, birds, mussels, mammals, amphibians and reptiles. The Mississippi River is also a thriving economic thoroughfare in the United States with billions of tons of cargo being transported up and down the river each year, including grain and other agriculture products, coal, iron, steel, and petroleum products. Throughout his time in Congress, Kind has made conserving our natural heritage one of the hallmarks of his work, establishing leadership on sportsmen’s issues, protecting the Mississippi River, advocating for our National Wildlife Refuge System, and working to maintain conservation funding through the Farm Bill. Kind founded and co-chairs the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force, is Co-Chair of the Mississippi River Caucus and Co-Chair of the National Parks Caucus. He is former Co-Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen Cacus. Kind was named Safari Club International’s Legislator of the Year, the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF) Legislator of the Year, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Conservation Legislator of the Year, National Parks Conservation Association’s (NCPA) Friend of the National Parks and received the Teaming with Wildlife Association Award. Rep. Kind is an active outdoorsman and enjoys hunting with his sons on their family farm in western Wisconsin and fishing on the Mississippi River. Congressman Walz was recently named the Vice Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen Caucus and is an active outdoorsman who enjoys canoeing and hunting pheasants in southern Minnesota. He was chosen by his colleagues as the lead Democrat on the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Conservation, Energy, and Forestry for the 113th Congress. Last week, Walz joined a bipartisan group of Minnesota lawmakers, headed up by Senator Klobuchar and Rep. Ellison, to introduce legislation that would fight the spread of Asian Carp in Minnesota, specifically through the Mississippi River.
02.21.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today sent a letter to Mike Huebsch, Secretary of the Department of Administration and Tony Evers, State Superintendent of Public Instruction, stating concerns about possible discrepancies in the evaluation and analysis of Skyward’s proposal during the Department of Administration’s procurement process for a Statewide Student Information System (SIS). “It’s time to put people first. And that means maintaining good-paying jobs in our state and limiting the tax burden on hard working Wisconsin families,” said Rep. Kind. “The decision made in the SIS procurement process not only appears flawed and obscure, but the result is clearly not in the best interests of our schools or Wisconsinites.” The letter states, “The company [Skyward] employs over 280 people and had plans to create 500 new jobs in Wisconsin over the next 10 years. If the current contract decisions stands, hundreds of Wisconsin jobs and future job opportunities may be lost. For these reasons, I urge you to conduct an independent and transparent review of the SIS selection process.” The 2011 Wisconsin State Budget required the Department of Public Instruction to establish a statewide student information system (SIS). Seven vendors were considered in the procurement process for the state-wide contract. The Department of Administration recently awarded the contract to Infinite Campus, a Minnesota-based vendor that currently serves only 10 percent of Wisconsin school districts, over Skyward, a Wisconsin-based vendor that currently serves over 50 percent of school districts in the state.
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Ron Kind today shared his disappointment in Governor Walker’s decision to reject the federal dollars for Medicaid expansion provided to states through the Affordable Care Act. Republican governors Jan Brewer or Arizona, Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota, John Kasich of Ohio, Susana Martinez of New Mexico, and Brian Sandoval of Nevada have already agreed to the expansion. “Governor Walker put politics before people today. His decision to reject the federal support for Medicaid expansion in our state is foolish. Expanding Medicaid would provide coverage to an additional 175,000 low-income people, create 10,500 jobs in Wisconsin, and because it is fully paid for through the Affordable Care Act, would save the state $66 million over three years. “The Governor’s math just doesn’t add up. The offer by the federal government would share 100 percent of the cost, versus the 60 percent that the federal government pays today. On top of that, those without coverage still receive treatment, passing costs along to hospitals and the insured. Accepting the support for Medicaid expansion would reduce the number of uninsured, saving Wisconsin’s health care system $247 million in uncompensated care costs over the next 10 years. Rejecting this deal is wrong for Wisconsin.”
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union Address. “The President laid out a clear path tonight – one that makes smart investments in a growing America, takes a hard look at important cuts, and most importantly, fosters job growth in an improving economy. “I couldn’t agree with the President more, we need a smarter government that maintains support for education, worker training, manufacturing and infrastructure so that we can ensure our economy is built to last and can compete in a global economy. But we have to do so in a way that’s fiscally responsible. And that means eliminating wasteful spending and finding ways to raise revenue at the same time. “It’s time to go big and make the cuts necessary to keep our economy on track and get our fiscal house in order. It’s time to put the politics aside and come together to make sure our government works for the families of Wisconsin and this great country.”
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union Address. “The President laid out a clear path tonight – one that makes smart investments in a growing America, takes a hard look at important cuts, and most importantly, fosters job growth in an improving economy. “I couldn’t agree with the President more, we need a smarter government that maintains support for education, worker training, manufacturing and infrastructure so that we can ensure our economy is built to last and can compete in a global economy. But we have to do so in a way that’s fiscally responsible. And that means eliminating wasteful spending and finding ways to raise revenue at the same time. “It’s time to go big and make the cuts necessary to keep our economy on track and get our fiscal house in order. It’s time to put the politics aside and come together to make sure our government works for the families of Wisconsin and this great country.”
02.05.2013	We have some of the best rural health care providers in the country right in our own backyard. I'm proud to have worked hard on their behalf during my time in office and look forward to the bipartisan progress we will be able to make as a coalition. Ensuring access to health care providers is vital to the long-term sustainability of rural communities.
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, member of the House Ways and Means Committee health subcommittee, was recently selected as Chair of the Rural Health Care Coalition in the House of Representatives. The Caucus is a bipartisan group of over 100 members who focus on improving access to care in rural communities. “We have some of the best rural health care providers in the country right in our own backyard,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud to have worked hard on their behalf during my time in office and look forward to the bipartisan progress we will be able to make as a coalition. I will continue to advocate for legislation that gives rural hospitals and clinics the support they need and increases access to the care they provide. Ensuring access to providers is vital to the long-term sustainability of rural communities.” In addition, today Rep. Kind spoke at the National Rural Health Care Association’s annual policy institute where he addressed the importance of rural hospitals for both patient access and economic development, the potential impact of impending indiscriminate cuts on rural providers, and legislation he is authoring to provide more flexibility to rural hospitals to better care for their communities. Rep. Kind also sat down with members of Wisconsin’s Rural Health Association including Tim Size, Executive Director of the Rural Wisconsin Health Cooperative; Jeremy Levin, Director of Advocacy of the Rural Wisconsin Health Cooperative; Bill Sexton, CEO of Prairie du Chien Memorial Hospital; Jim O'Keefe, CEO of Mile Bluff Medical Center in Mauston; David Hartberg, CEO of Boscobel Area Health Care and John Eich, Director of the Wisconsin Office of Rural Health; among others. “Congressman Kind has been a staunch supporter of access to quality health care for rural Americans,” said Bill Sexton, CEO Prairie du Chien Memorial Hospital and 2006 President of the National Rural Health Association. “I have known him since he first took office and he has always been there when we needed him.” Rep. Kind’s district is home to 17 critical access hospitals. Rep. Kind was recognized as 2011 Legislator of the Year by the National Rural Health Association for his support, leadership and outstanding commitment to rural health care issues. Specifically, as part of health care reform, Rep. Kind helped secure health insurance exchanges and small business tax credits which were modeled after legislation he authored called the SHOP Act. The exchanges and tax credits will help small businesses compete for talented employees on an even footing with larger firms for the first time, benefitting rural America. With Rep. Kind’s leadership, health care reform also expanded provisions to help ensure rural doctors are paid fairly to cover operating expenses and are paid closer to the same amount as urban doctors. In addition, Rep. Kind helped include in the bill both an Institute of Medicine study that will result in fairer Medicare payments for rural communities as well as important protections to maintain increased payments for rural labs, home health agencies, ambulances, rural outpatient hospitals and other rural providers.
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement after supporting the No Budget, No Pay Act of 2013 (H.R. 325). The Act, which passed 285-144, extends the limit on federal borrowing for four months, until May 18, in order for the U.S. to fully meet current obligations and avoid default. It also prohibits congressional pay for Members of Congress, unless a budget passes. “Instead of coming together on a long-term solution, my Republican colleagues are again putting a Band-Aid on the problem,” said Rep. Kind. “These repeated short-term fixes are not the answer. We cannot continue to have this argument every few months, create waves of uncertainty for both families and businesses, and expect our economy to grow.” When Republicans took the debt limit hostage in August 2011 and passed an increase at the very last minute, America’s economy paid the price. For the first time in history, the credit rating of the U.S. was downgraded; consumer confidence dropped by 25 percent and the economy saw the lowest level of private sector job growth in nearly three years. If the U.S. were to default, it would have a catastrophic effect on the credit market both in the U.S. and across the world. Without access to credit, both consumption and investment would fall sharply, doubling the unemployment rate and devastating businesses. “Though it’s not perfect, this bill keeps us from defaulting on our obligations and is the right thing to avoid economic disaster,” said Kind. “We have an obligation to pay the bills we’ve incurred and then work on getting future debt under control.” “Wisconsinites know hard work and they know if they don’t do their jobs, they don’t get paid. Members of Congress should have to abide by the same rules. It’s time to do our job, make the tough decisions to get our fiscal house in order, and lay out a bipartisan, long-term solution to our budget deficits.” *Congressman Kind’s weekly video address on this topic*Congressman Kind’s speech on the floor of the House of Representatives
01.17.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Ron Kind today encouraged Governor Walker to agree to the Medicaid expansion provided to states through the Affordable Care Act. At this time, Republican governors Jan Brewer or Arizona, Brian Sandoval of Nevada, and Susana Martinez of New Mexico have already agreed to the expansion. “The Supreme Court has ruled and the law is constitutional,” said Rep. Kind. “Now it’s time to move forward in updating our health care system so that all Americans have access to stable, secure, affordable coverage.” “Governor Walker has the opportunity expand BadgerCare in our state and ensure affordable coverage for low-income children, the disabled, and all Medicaid recipients and still save the state money over the next ten years. It’s time to rise above the politics, as other Republican governors have, and provide the people of Wisconsin access to quality health care.” The Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act gave states the ability to accept or opt out of the law's Medicaid expansion. According to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, Wisconsin will actually spend 0.6 percent less on Medicaid between now and 2022 if the state agrees to the Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act. With the Medicaid expansion, the state would also reduce the number of uninsured Wisconsinites by 123,000.
01.16.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement regarding the President’s announcement today on his plan to reduce gun violence in America. “We have a responsibility to take care of the safety and security of all of our citizens. We must move forward with a long-overdue discussion but at the same time, we must also listen to the voices of law-abiding, safety-conscious gun owners in America. “The President today highlighted a number of areas that we need to address to ensure this safety and rein in gun violence in our country. I commend President Obama and Vice President Biden for meeting with stakeholders on both sides of the issue to pursue solutions to reduce and prevent this violence. As a former prosecutor, I agree that we must do a better job upholding the laws that prohibit criminals from having guns and ensuring dangerous people aren’t slipping through the cracks. I support increased school safety initiatives so that our teachers and students are better protected with the help of additional officers and surveillance equipment. And we can and should be enforcing stricter penalties for gun trafficking to stop the spread of illegal weapons across our borders and among our communities. “As an avid hunter and a representative of sportsmen and women in Wisconsin and across the country, I believe current law should be examined so as to allow law-abiding sportsmen to enjoy hunting but also to keep guns out of the hands of convicted criminals and others who might misuse them. “The discussion is not over and there is still a lot to do. We must strike a balance between public safety and individual rights to really address the issue of gun violence and put into place reforms that work for and protect all Americans.”
01.03.2013	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement regarding the 113th Session of Congress. “I’ve had a chance to meet with many of the new members; they strike me as pragmatic and very reasonable, something we need more of in Congress. We have to stop electing people that have a “my way” or “no way” attitude. Whether the 113th Congress succeeds or fails is going to be based on bipartisanship and compromise. “I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to create good paying jobs and get our economy moving again. It’s time to really start attacking our budget deficits and that means going where the money is – health care, defense , and tax reform. This is the only way to ensure continued economic growth and a sound fiscal path for our country.”
01.01.2013	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today supported the American Taxpayer Relief Act providing tax relief to working families across America. “I’m pleased that despite what it’s taken to get to this point, we’ve come together on a bipartisan bill that works for middle class families across America. Compromise isn’t about one party getting its way; it’s about doing the job we were elected to do and coming together for the good of the country. The bill isn’t perfect, but it continues income tax relief to 98 percent of Americans and small businesses while avoiding unnecessary damage to our economic recovery. It is a big step in the right direction. “There is still a lot to do, including a comprehensive agreement to get our fiscal house in order and our deficits under control. I still believe we must go big and find real savings in defense, health care, and tax reform to get ourselves on a sustainable fiscal path. As we enter the 113th Congress this week, it’s time to roll our sleeves up and really get to work.”
12.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today stressed the importance of moving forward on a fix to avoid going over the Dairy Cliff on December 31. Recent reports indicated that House leadership will not take up a Farm Bill before the end of the 112th Congress. “Failing to take up a Farm Bill will take us back to the outdated agriculture policies of 1949,” said Rep. Kind. “This would devastate the dairy market and unnecessarily burden consumers who would bear the brunt of higher prices. “ When Congress passes a five-year Farm Bill, they include a provision to suspend what is known as “permanent law”— policies that date back to the 1930s and 1940s. Without Congressional action yet this year, the nation’s agricultural policy would revert back to price controls from more than 60 years ago. At that time, the government used a complex formula to set milk prices for farmers based on the cost of their inputs. If a Farm Bill is not addressed in the next 10 days, USDA would be required to implement these antiquated price controls and the government would have to start buying dairy products at nearly double recent market prices to drive up the price of milk to cover dairy producers’ costs. Retailers and other businesses would have to pay more than the government rate to buy dairy products. The cost of milk and other dairy products would then skyrocket for consumers and businesses. “We have had more than enough time to take up a Farm Bill,” said Kind. “And even if we can’t pass the next Farm Bill to fully address our outdated farm policies, we must move forward with a short-term extension to address the impending dairy cliff. “ “Reverting back to 60-year-old policies will cost taxpayers as much as $15 billion over the next year and would be disastrous for the dairy industry. Our farmers deserve policies that provide them with the certainty they need in planning their operations. It’s our responsibility to take a real look at our farm programs, reform what is not working and pass a food and farm bill that works for the 21st century.”
12.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind opposed irresponsible over-spending in the Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2013 which passed today. “I fully support training for our troops and providing our soldiers the equipment necessary to help them get the job done and get home safely,” said Rep. Kind. “But we’ve got to find a way to do that and still be fiscally responsible with our defense budget.” “The bill spends $1.7 billion more than the President’s request and allocates money for programs that the Pentagon doesn’t need and hasn’t requested. The bill prohibits the Air Force from retiring a number of planes it says are unneeded, funds drones that the department claims are unnecessary, and authorizes funding increases to replace equipment and weapons that have been expended in combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “The spending is out of control, we’ve got to make responsible cuts and get our fiscal house in order. And that means we’ve got to start holding the Pentagon accountable to find real savings.” The agreement authorizes: • $9.8 billion for missile defense programs, $152 million more than the president's request• $6 billion for continued procurement of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter plane • $500 million for the Global Hawk Block 30 aircraft, which the Pentagon decided to terminate to save $2.5 billion over the next five years• And prevents the retirement of three naval cruisers that the Pentagon is seeking to retire
12.13.2012	It's time to come together and find a bipartisan solution to get our fiscal house in order. Everything must be on the table.
12.05.2012	It's time for us to come together, find commonsense budget solutions, and do what is best for the future of this country. That means we must move forward on a long-term sustainable plan to get our economy moving and our budgets in check.
11.20.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Ron Kind (D-WI), Chair of the New Democrat Coalition and member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Tim Walz (D-MN), member of the House Agriculture Committee, today sent a letter to U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Ron Kirk and U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack urging them to make full use of all of the World Trade Organization’s tools to address issues that have continued to prohibit U.S. dairy exports from having fair access to the Russian market. “Wisconsin exported a record $2.85 billion worth of agricultural products in 2011, an increase of 18 percent over 2010,” said Rep. Kind. “Clearly, exporting is a growth opportunity for our producers. Establishing normal trade relations with Russia and holding them accountable through the World Trade Organization not only expands diplomatic and economic engagement in the growing Russian marketplace but creates increased economic opportunities for dairy farmers in Wisconsin and across the country.” “For years, southern Minnesota’s dairy producers have been shut out of Russia’s $2 billion dollar dairy import market due to restrictive trade barriers,” said Rep. Walz. “Last week, the House overwhelmingly voted to allow U.S.-Russian trade to become unconditional and competitive. Granting U.S. farmers, ranchers and dairy producers unfettered access to the world’s sixth largest economy, in addition to the full arsenal of WTO trade rules, is a big victory for the future growth and competitiveness of U.S. agricultural exporters.” The House of Representatives passed H.R. 6156, The Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012 late last week. The bill, which establishes normal trade relations with Russia and gives the U.S. the ability to challenge Russia’s discriminatory trade practices, will move to the Senate for approval. Kind and Walz write, “When [the bill], is signed into law and the U.S. permanently grants Russia normal trade relations, the United States will be able to use the WTO’s mechanisms to address Russia’s non-science based sanitary and phytosanitary barriers to American dairy exports. We strongly urge you to consider using the WTO’s mechanisms to reopen these markets and ensure that American dairy producers and processors have the opportunity to compete on a level playing field in the Russian market.” International trade has a net positive effect on the agricultural economy. According to the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, export revenues account for 26 percent of Wisconsin farm cash receipts in 2010. Wisconsin exported more than $230 million worth of dairy products in 2011. As the number one producer of cheese in the United States, Wisconsin ranked second in the nation for the export of cheese in 2011 ($106 million). In 2011, U.S. exports of cheese, total whey products, lactose and other dairy products reached record levels, valued at $4.82 billion, up 30 percent from 2010 totals of $3.71 billion. National exports have increased 21 percent annually over the last eight years. Letter here.
11.16.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Ron Kind today expressed disappointment following Governor Walker’s decision to allow the federal government, instead of the State of Wisconsin, to operate Wisconsin’s health insurance exchange. “Governor Walker put partisan politics before people today. Instead of allowing Wisconsin to run its own health insurance exchange, make key health care decisions for Wisconsinites, and better meet the needs of families and businesses here at home, Governor Walker punted that responsibility to Washington. “Health insurance exchanges are based on the SHOP Act, legislation I authored, and have always had bipartisan support. They allow small businesses, family farmers and individuals to choose amongst competing health care plans which are coupled with tax credits to make them affordable. What’s not to like? “I’m disappointed in Governor Walker’s decision and hope that we can find a way to rise above the politics, work together, and provide access to quality, affordable coverage for the people of Wisconsin.” Earlier this week, Kind joined Senator Herb Kohl, Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin, U.S. Rep. Gwen Moore and U.S. Rep-elect Mark Pocan in sending a letter to Governor Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin’s state-based health insurance exchange.
11.15.2012	We must act now to reach a balanced deal that averts severe economic consequences. Everything should be on the table. We need an open discussion about spending cuts and revenue.
11.15.2012	Washington, D.C. –Today, at this critical juncture for our nation, in the midst of a fragile economic recovery, New Democrat Coalition Chair Ron Kind (WI-03), Vice Chairs Representatives Jim Himes (CT-04), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) and other New Dem Members are reaching out to President Barack Obama, Speaker John Boehner, and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to work with them to secure agreement on a plan for the fiscal well-being of our economy.“We must act now. As the largest group of moderates in Congress, we are the key to bridging the gap between Republicans and Democrats. We stand by the President in support of a balanced deal that averts severe economic consequences, and we do not support calls to delay or put off the difficult decisions that are necessary for the fiscal well being of our nation. We believe everything should be put on the table—an open discussion about spending cuts and revenue. The time is now.” Earlier today, Members of the coalition and Members-Elect sent a letter urging President Obama, Speaker Boehner, and Democratic Leader Pelosi of the important role their coalition will play in reaching a comprehensive deal. “Our coalition will work with you to secure agreement on a plan of significance. Now is the time to act. Americans are ready for pragmatic solutions to address our pressing fiscal issues… Congress has a responsibility to address the fiscal situation in a way that inspires confidence in the markets and avoids further damage to our credit. That means being deliberative, responsible, and thoughtful about any short-term spending cuts that could adversely affect economic growth and job creation. We cannot have a full debate that allows us to address the multitude of issues facing our country if either side takes a potential solution off the table,” Members stated in the letter. To see a copy of the letter, please click here.
11.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today was elected leader of the New Democrat Coalition, a centrist group of over 50 Democratic members - one quarter of the entire Democratic Caucus, focused on harnessing American ingenuity and advocating pro-growth strategies. Kind has been a member of the Coalition since 1997 and vice-chair since 2003. “I’m honored to work with a group of my colleagues who are, above all, dedicated to creating jobs and getting our economy back on track,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s going to take hard work and a willingness to rise above the partisanship and find common ground to address our nation’s challenges. But I know that our commitment to building a more prosperous economy and fostering an environment where American workers and small businesses can thrive will help us come together, do what’s right for the American people, and create an economy that is built to last.” The New Democrat Coalition is dedicated to maintaining America’s standing as the world’s most innovative and competitive nation. Founded in 1997, the New Democrats firmly believe in the power of American ingenuity and are focused on finding ways to foster this creativity to grow our economy, create new jobs, ensure a safer and more secure future for our country, and make sure that all Americans can be full participants in the global economy. The organization is comprised of a range of members from across the country. Many are former entrepreneurs, small business owners, physicists, doctors, and local policy makers who have brought their practical and real world experience to both this organization and the U.S. Congress. “We have an opportunity now to find ways to work across the aisle and bring our country back together again,” said Rep. Kind. “The New Democrat Coalition can play a critical role in achieving that.” The Coalition consists of seven task forces. They are: • Energy• Financial Services and Retirement Security• Health Care• National Security• Tax Reform and Fiscal Responsibility• Technology, Education, and Entrepreneurship• Trade, Critical Infrastructure and Manufacturing
11.13.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-3), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Representative-elect Mark Pocan (WI-2) today sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin’s state-based health insurance exchange, made possible through the Affordable Care Act of 2010. Walker faces a November 16th deadline in deciding whether the state will run its own exchange or the federal government will run Wisconsin’s exchange. “It is critical that Governor Walker moves forward and allows the State of Wisconsin to set up the health insurance exchange that best meets the needs of small businesses, family farmers and consumers here at home, it’s the Wisconsin way,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Health insurance exchanges have previously had bipartisan support. Now is the time to put partisanship aside and do what is best for the people of Wisconsin.” “State leaders must choose whether to create a state-based exchange, a hybrid state-federal exchange, or leave it entirely up to the federal government,” said Senator Herb Kohl. “The best choice for Wisconsin’s small businesses, families and individuals is to keep things in our state so we can meet our unique and specific needs. I hope that they will make the right decision for Wisconsinites.” “Wisconsin has a strong tradition of advancing health care reforms and this is an important opportunity for our state to lead in moving reform forward,” said Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin. “I am committed to bringing people together and working collaboratively to make America’s new health care law work for Wisconsin. I also believe that putting in place a Wisconsin-run health insurance exchange will provide Wisconsin families and businesses more choices for the quality coverage our state is known for providing our citizens. Taking ownership of this opportunity is the right path forward for all of Wisconsin." “The implementation of this health insurance exchange, should Governor Walker allow it to proceed, will provide Wisconsinites with a ‘one stop shopping’ experience to compare prices, quality and physician and hospital networks,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “This program will empower Wisconsinites to determine what works best for them and their families while keeping prices low and affordable. I join my colleagues in urging the Governor to move forward with this vital implementation.” "Wisconsin voters went to the polls this election and supported candidates who advocate polices that extend health care to more and more Americans," said Rep-Elect Mark Pocan. "We must ensure the people of our state have every opportunity to access quality health care." Health care reform provides for state-based health insurance exchanges that allow small businesses, family farmers, and individuals to pool their purchasing power to find quality, affordable health care. Exchanges create a marketplace that allow consumers to comparison shop among a variety of plans and prices, giving all Americans access to the same type of quality, affordable coverage that is now often available only to large employers. Based on the SHOP Act, authored by Rep. Kind, exchanges have long received strong bipartisan support because they are transparent, consumer-friendly, and operate on free market principles. With President Obama’s reelection and a Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act will continue to be fully implemented. The state faces a November 16, 2012 deadline to notify the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services how the Wisconsin exchange will operate. Link to letter here.
11.09.2012	Encourage a veteran in your life to preserve their story as part of the Veterans History Project, the largest oral history collection in the world. These experiences are an important part of history and a permanent reminder of the sacrifices made defending our country.
10.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today returned from a Congressional delegation trip to Afghanistan and India. While in Afghanistan, Kind had the opportunity to meet with the leadership team and members of the Wisconsin National Guard 1157 Transportation Company. “Nothing has made me more proud to be an American than seeing, firsthand, the job our troops do under difficult circumstances to keep our country safe,” said Rep. Kind. “I had the chance to meet with Captain Chris Menden and our National Guard 1157th, who are doing an excellent job providing route security for U.S. forces drawing down in Afghanistan. I also talked with General John Allen, the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, who couldn’t be more thankful for the work our troops are doing and more excited to have the help of western Wisconsin’s 229th Engineer Company.” Kind participated in the deployment ceremony of Wisconsin Army National Guard 229th Engineer Company in Prairie du Chien in late August. The 159 men and women who make up the 229th are now based in southern Afghanistan, in the Kandahar Province, where they are performing engineer construction missions. During the trip, Kind also met with high ranking U.S. and Afghan government officials, including General Allen and U.S. Ambassador James Cunningham, as well as President Karzai’s National Security Advisor and Minister of Defense. He also spent time with special ops forces for briefings on their mission to disband Taliban and Al Qaeda forces and private business leaders to discuss U.S. national security, foreign policy, trade, and development priorities. “Based on my observation, I believe the Afghan forces are capable of assuming more of the frontline mission in the region, allowing us to pull back our troops so that they can return home as soon as possible. According to the President’s plan, 33,000 troops were withdrawn this year and all combat troops are scheduled to leave Afghanistan at the end of 2014, shortly after Afghan national elections are held. I look forward to working with the Administration to make sure we can get our men and women home safe and sound and get to work doing some of our own nation building.” This was Kind’s second trip to Afghanistan and first trip to India. In addition, Kind has visited the Middle East several times, including Pakistan once and Iraq on four different occasions.
10.02.2012	Ron hosted Nancy Sutley, Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality, for tours of two significant clean energy initiatives in western Wisconsin. Kind and Sutley visited both Gundersen Lutheran Heath System’s campus in Onalaska as well as a small scale farm digester in Chaseberg.
09.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today hosted Nancy Sutley, President Obama’s principal environmental advisor and Chair of the White House Council on Environmental Quality for tours of two significant clean energy initiatives in western Wisconsin. Kind and Sutley visited both Gundersen Lutheran Heath System’s campus in Onalaska, Wis. as well as a small scale digester located on the Peters Dairy Farm in Chaseberg, Wis. “Right here in our own backyard, we have local people and small businesses using waste to create clean energy,” said Rep. Kind. “They are saving money, reducing pollution, and increasing efficiencies. These leaders should be a model for the rest of the nation. I’m pleased to be able to share these innovative and renewable energy solutions with Ms. Sutley.” “La Crosse County is home to innovative efforts that exemplify the Obama Administration’s approach to growing our economy and saving families and businesses money through smart clean energy initiatives,” Sutley said. “Taking an all-of-the-above approach to energy that includes developing renewable energy sources and cutting energy waste is good for communities in Wisconsin and a model for successful efforts across the country.” Kind and Sutley’s first stop today was at Gundersen Lutheran, which is working to become the first health care system in the nation to obtain energy independence, a goal they expect to reach by 2014. Gundersen’s Onalaska campus is a model for achieving this ambitious goal across all of their hospitals and clinics. Through a partnership with La Crosse County, Gundersen uses biogas from a local landfill – piped to an engine on their Onalaska Campus – for heat and electricity. The engine produces as much energy as the Onalaska Campus consumes, making the multiple building healthcare campus 100 percent energy independent. “There are some great, local solutions when members of communities partner to focus on the long-term health and well-being of the community,” said Jeffrey Thompson, MD, CEO, Gundersen Lutheran. “Our landfill gas-to-energy partnership with La Crosse County is just one example. We were honored to show Ms. Sutley and Rep. Kind what can be accomplished when the government and private organizations work together to achieve a goal.” Kind and Sutley then traveled to Vernon County where they visited a 45 kW anaerobic digester located at a small dairy farm owned by Wayne Peters and his sons, Rory and Roger, in Chaseberg. The digester is currently selling renewable energy to Dairyland Power Cooperative. The 200-cow farm facility is unique in that it represents the first small-scale use of a manure digester system in the region. Typically, “cow power” manure digester plants are designed for large-herd dairy farms of at least 1,000 cows. The Universal Sanitary Equipment Manufacturing Company (USEMCO), based out of Tomah, Wis., developed this digester operation specifically to encompass small-herd operations such as the Peters Farm. The technology behind the digester creates new opportunities for smaller farms to both minimize waste and increase renewable energy production. “Dairyland Power is a national leader in terms of the quantity of on-farm digesters producing renewable energy for our cooperative system. We are pleased to be part of this partnership which produces more renewable power locally while offering great promise for small family-owned farms,” said William Berg, President and CEO, Dairyland Power Cooperative. The tours with Nancy Sutley today were meant to highlight not only local innovative initiatives focused on renewable energy but President Obama’s all-of-the-above energy approach that doubles down on clean energy to save money, reduce pollution, and create 21st century American jobs and industries.
09.18.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind, Tammy Baldwin, and Gwen Moore, along with U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl, today sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), urging extension of Wisconsin’s popular SeniorCare program. The letter emphasized SeniorCare’s tremendous value to Wisconsin seniors and the federal government because of its ability to negotiate prescription drug prices directly with drug manufacturers. ”SeniorCare has saved Wisconsin seniors millions of dollars on prescription drugs and continues to provide important benefits to thousands of seniors across our great state,” said Rep. Kind. “Not only is SeniorCare a cost-effective model to providing affordable medication, but it is a valuable tool in cutting health care costs at the federal level now and in the long run.” “By bargaining directly with drug manufacturers, SeniorCare provides Wisconsin seniors with a quality, affordable prescription drug benefit,” said Baldwin. “I strongly support extending SeniorCare in Wisconsin, as well as using the program as a model to lower prescription drug prices for all Americans.” “SeniorCare is not only working, it saves money for participants and taxpayers,” Sen. Kohl said. “It’s a great and successful investment that needs to be preserved and emulated.” “I am pleased to join my colleagues in supporting Wisconsin’s SeniorCare renewal application,” Rep. Moore said. “This is a program that has made a real difference in seniors’ quality of life, allowing them to afford the prescriptions they need to care for their health. With so many seniors on tight, fixed incomes, we must do all we can to protect SeniorCare now and for years to come.” Since its creation in 2002, SeniorCare’s power to bargain directly with drug manufacturers has saved Wisconsin seniors hundreds of millions of dollars in manufacturer rebates. On average, these rebates pay for over 40 percent of SeniorCare costs. In 2010 alone, SeniorCare’s negotiating powers saved seniors $80 million. The program’s benefits are passed on to the federal government through reduced Medicare and Medicaid spending. Unlike SeniorCare, Medicare legally prohibits the Secretary of HHS from negotiating lower prescription drug prices for seniors. This sweetheart deal, made with big pharmaceutical companies during the creation in 2003 of Medicare Part D, has resulted in higher drug prices for Medicare recipients and increased costs for taxpayers. Congresswoman Baldwin recently introduced legislation in the House (the Negotiating for Seniors Act), to repeal that sweetheart deal, reducing drug costs and keeping savings from future drug price negotiations within Medicare. Her legislation is largely inspired by the success of drug price negotiations in Wisconsin. SeniorCare operates through a special Medicaid waiver obtained through HHS. Though the current waiver is set to expire at the end of the year, the Wisconsin Department of Health Services recently submitted an application to HHS for a three-year extension through 2015. The Members’ letter urged quick approval of that extension request. The letter to HHS can be found here.
09.14.2012	Washington, DC – As Congress wraps up one of the last weeks of business before Election Day, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called on his Republican colleagues to stop playing games and bring a Farm Bill to the House floor. “It’s time to stop kicking the can down the road on the Farm Bill,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s our responsibility to take a real look at our farm programs, reform what is not working, end huge taxpayer subsidies that distort the market and do not help family farmers, and pass a food and farm bill for the 21st century.” Republican leadership has refused to bring a Farm Bill to the House floor, despite the bill moving through the House Agriculture Committee on July 11. Prior to that, the Senate passed their farm bill on June 21, with enough time for the House to take up the legislation before programs are set to expire on September 30, 2012. The Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program, which since the 2008 Farm Bill has compensated dairy producers when domestic milk prices have fallen below a specific level, is also set to expire this month. Expiration of this program leaves Wisconsin’s 12,000 dairy farmers vulnerable to future price shocks. “Our family farmers deserve a Farm Bill that provides the resources they depend on,” said Rep. Kind. “Following the worst drought we’ve seen in decades, we must give our farmers emergency assistance where necessary and provide them with the certainty they need in planning their operations. It's time for Republicans to bring the Farm Bill to the House floor.” Rep. Kind has long been an advocate for reforming Farm Bill programs. He played a significant role in the 2007 Farm Bill through his amendment to reform wasteful taxpayer funded farm subsidies going to large agribusinesses. Kind is co-chair of the bipartisan National Parks Caucus, founding member of the Wildlife Refuge Caucus, and member of both the Organic Caucus and Congressional Dairy Caucus. Kind served on the House Natural Resources Committee from 1996-2010.
09.12.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, today supported the bipartisan American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act, H.R. 5865, legislation that requires the development of a national strategy to revitalize American manufacturing and create good-paying middle class jobs. “Ensuring the success of American manufacturing is critical to remaining competitive in a global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Manufacturing spurs innovation. If we continue to invest in domestic manufacturing, we will see the research and development we need to maintain American competitiveness. In a nation as great as ours, we must have the ability to invent, create, build and grow things.” The American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act would require a federal board comprised of manufacturing experts, appointed by House and Senate leaders and the President, to conduct in-depth analysis of the nation’s manufacturing sector, government policy, and efforts by our global competitors to determine how best to make the United States an ideal location for establishing and maintaining manufacturing operations. Based on this analysis, the board will issue a draft national competitiveness strategy, which will ultimately be approved by the President. The first strategy is due by April 2014. In an effort to encourage manufacturing and grow the economy, Kind introduced legislation earlier this year, the Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act, H.R. 5795, which reduces the effective tax rate for domestic manufacturers to 20 percent. The bill creates a new section of the tax Code that provides a significantly lower tax rate for domestic manufacturers, providing important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring here in the United States. These firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth. “Reducing the effective tax rate gives our manufacturers greater opportunity to succeed globally,” said Rep. Kind. “It will help them keep facilities in the Unites States, produce American goods, hire American workers, and continue to grow and innovate. This is a commonsense investment in America’s future.”
08.02.2012	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind stood with conservation organizations and agriculture groups from across Wisconsin and the country, in opposition to H.R. 6233, the disaster assistance bill on the House floor today. “This disaster assistance package is just another partisan attempt to prevent us from taking up five year, comprehensive farm bill. One year extensions and ad hoc bills aren’t going to get us a farm policy that better serves our family farmers. “We do need to provide relief during this historic drought, but that should not come at the expense of already under-funded conservation programs that better prepare farmers to withstand the effects of future natural disasters. Instead we should look to wasteful spending that already has bipartisan support. Members of both houses and both parties agree that millions of dollars in direct payments going to very few large agribusinesses does nothing to help our family famers and is a misuse of taxpayer dollars. “A five year farm bill would allow us not only to eliminate outdated direct payments, but continue to provide the conservation funding our famers rely on and make important updates to programs that support agriculture in our state and across the country.” This bill is opposed by a number of state and national conservation and sportsmen’s groups and in addition lacks the support of major farm organizations.
08.01.2012	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind, a member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, today voted against the GOP bill, H.R. 8, which would increase taxes on 25 million middle class families, including military families and veterans, by reducing and eliminating important tax credits that they rely on. “We should not be giving $1 trillion in tax breaks to the wealthiest two percent while at the same time asking our hardworking middle class families, including military families, to pay more,” said Rep. Kind. The GOP extends tax cuts for the wealthiest while raising taxes on millions of families. The bill reduces the Child Tax and the Credit Earned Income Tax Credit and puts an end to the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which helps make college more affordable for middle class families. All this means a $1000 tax increase for 25 million American families, including military families who are disproportionally impacted. “We are clearly in need of critical spending reform if we ever expect to get our deficits in order and our economy back on track,” said Rep. Kind. “We must come together in a bipartisan fashion to get our fiscal house in order. Congress needs to move forward on a long-term deficit reduction plan while working to protect our small businesses and family farmers and ensuring middle class families have the certainty they need to weather this economy.”
07.27.2012	Wisconsin farmers have been hit by the most severe drought in decades, calling for disaster declaration in 23 counties across the state. For information, resources, and assistance, please follow the links.
07.19.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind called out his Republican colleagues for bringing a bloated Defense Appropriations bill to the House floor today. “For a party that preaches spending cuts, this bill is anything but fiscally responsible,” said Rep. Kind. “Not only does it exceed the President’s request by $3 billion, but it spends hundreds of millions on weapons and equipment not requested by the Pentagon. In a time when families across Wisconsin are facing tight budgets, we should be setting the example and cutting federal budgets too.” The Defense Appropriations bill appropriates $3 billion more than the requested by the President and the Pentagon, unnecessary spending Kind has been pointing out for years. These wasteful spending items include: • As much as $690 million to purchase one Virigina-class sub and two Aegis destroyers that the Pentagon did not request• $602 million to maintain Aegis cruisers that the Pentagon wants to retire• An additional $320 million for tanks and other vehicles that the Pentagon did not ask for• $262 million to buy and maintain drones that the Defense Department claims are unnecessary “This blank check that defense contractors expect from the American taxpayer must end. We have to get this kind of unnecessary spending under control if we ever want to reduce the deficit and get our economy back on track.”
07.11.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted to preserve patient protections and uphold the health and economic security of Wisconsin families and small businesses, while calling on Republican leaders to get to work to create jobs and grow our economy. “Enough is enough,” said Rep. Kind. “The Supreme Court found the Affordable Care Act constitutional. Let’s stop playing games and instead of wasting time trying to repeal the law and take away not only tax credits from small businesses but health care from 39,000 children in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions, let’s continue implementing it and focusing on creating the jobs we need right now.” Today, for the 33rd time this Congress, House Republicans voted to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act, taking away critical protections for millions of Americans. Rather than focusing on jobs or on implementing the law that changes the health care system to better ensure that all Americans have access to stable, secure, affordable health care coverage, Republicans chose to waste time on another message bill that will never become law. The Affordable Care Act is already helping families, individuals and small businesses: • More than 39,000 children in western Wisconsin alone, who were previously denied coverage due to a pre-existing condition, now have health insurance • 43,000 young adults in Wisconsin are covered under their parent’s plans• More than 60,000 Wisconsin seniors have lower prescription drug costs• 647,617 Wisconsin seniors on Medicare receive free preventive care • Small businesses and family farms qualify for tax credits for the health care they provide their workers “Repealing these important patient protections increases costs for seniors, weakens health care coverage for children and students, and raises taxes on the hundreds of small businesses in western Wisconsin who qualify for tax credits under the bill. It’s time to stop fighting each other and instead come together to start fighting for job creation and economic recovery.”
07.11.2012	Ron speaks on the floor of the House of Representatives as Republicans again attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act and the important patient protections it provides.
07.03.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today held a press conference to highlight his plan for deficit reduction and make his annual office give back, returning $120,078 to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the deficit. “We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills,” said Rep. Kind. “I learned well from Senator Proxmire that there it too much waste, fraud and abuse in the budget and that we need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.” Kind believes savings can be found by cutting wasteful and unnecessary spending in four key categories. They include: • Rising health care costs - the fastest area of spending in the federal budget. One out of every three health care dollars, nearly $800 billion, is spent on things that don’t work. We must change the way we pay for health care to get these costs under control. Fortunately, recent health care reform puts us on a path to do this.• Wasteful spending and cost overruns in the defense budget. Nearly 80,000 troops are stationed in Western Europe protecting us from nonexistent Cold War threats and the latest GAO report states that our weapons programs are $300 billion over budget.• Outdated taxpayer funded farm subsidy programs. These subsidies are not responsible to taxpayers, do not help family farmers, and have only distorted the marketplace. Every year, over $30 billion in taxpayer dollars goes to wasteful farm subsidies that fund only a few large agribusinesses.• Earmarks are irresponsible spending. We must eliminate earmarking altogether. Kind has for years worked with his colleague Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) to reform the earmarking process and has forgone requests since 2008. Rep. Kind also opposes the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and gives back a portion of his Congressional budget each year to reduce the deficit. This year’s giveback brings Kind’s total to a sum of $1.48 million since he first took office in 1996. “I am committed to making the tough decisions to support investments and programs that are vital to our economy and at the same time cutting wasteful and unnecessary spending. When times are tough, western Wisconsin families tighten their belts and that’s exactly what we need to do in Washington.”
07.02.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, today visited Shape Products in Menomonie to roll out legislation that encourages American manufacturing by lowering the effective tax rate for domestic manufacturers to 20 percent. Shape Products, which produces thermal molded window well covers and other glass coverings and has worked with the Northwest Wisconsin Manufacturing Outreach Center, is one of several western Wisconsin manufacturers that stand to benefit from the legislation. “Investing in American manufacturing is critical to remaining competitive in a global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Reducing the effective tax rate gives our manufacturers greater opportunity to succeed globally. It will help them keep facilities in the Unites States, produce American goods, hire American workers, and continue to grow and innovate. This is a commonsense investment in America’s future.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, approximately 1.9 million workers are employed by domestic manufacturers. The manufacturing industry provides stable jobs and on average, provides wages that are above the national average and offers a gateway to the middle class. “In this recovering economy it is extremely important that we help keep and grow American manufacturing,” said Rock Eiden, Owner of Shape Products. “Manufacturing has always been the backbone of our society and it is the key –especially in Western Wisconsin – to a strong economic outlook. Congressman Kind’s bill is helping us to compete in a global market and keep “Made in the USA” on our products. We thank Mr. Kind for recognizing the importance of our industry and his dedication to the people of Wisconsin.” "We work side by side with northwestern Wisconsin manufacturers throughout the year and hear about the variety of challenges they are facing" said Larry Blackledge, Director of Northwest Wisconsin Manufacturing Outreach Center (NWMOC). "While our interactions provide assistance required to excel in key success categories, the continued success and growth of our strong manufacturing communities can multiply in impact as additional means of support are provided, such as Congressman Kind's bill." Congressman Kind’s bill, H.R. 5795, places a high priority on supporting these stable jobs and sustainable wages in the American manufacturing industry. Movement on comprehensive tax reform must remove barriers to growth and simplify the tax code but it must also increase U.S. competitiveness, boost economic growth, and foster the creation of sustainable American jobs. The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act does this by creating a new section of the tax code that provides a significantly lower tax rate for domestic manufacturers, providing important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring here in the United States. These firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth. “Manufacturing is the backbone of Wisconsin’s economy,” said Kurt Bauer, President and CEO Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce. “We applaud Congressman Kind’s efforts to make Wisconsin manufacturers more competitive in a global economy.” “If America wishes to compete for manufacturing jobs in an increasingly competitive global marketplace, then it must present a compelling case to businesses that are considering where they will locate their operations,” said Cindy Brown of Chippewa Valley Bean Co. “This Act helps level the playing field where taxes are concerned, putting us in a better position to bring good-paying manufacturing jobs back to our shores. It’s not only needed for the health of American manufacturing and the American economy – it’s long overdue.” “Today, U.S. domestic manufactures are the most productive in the world,” said Mike Bedessem, CFO Organic Valley. “Lower tax rates on this activity will help increase our competiveness as a center of world class manufacturing.” “Since our founding in the 1930s, Ocean Spray has been proud to support our country's economy by manufacturing our products in America,” said Fran Podvin, Chairman of the Board, Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. “With the passage of this bill, Ocean Spray can continue to invest in -- and create jobs at -- our manufacturing facility in Tomah, Wis. We strongly support efforts to facilitate the needed investments in the rural communities supported by the U.S. cranberry industry and related agriculture industries and commend Representative Kind for his efforts to stimulate U.S. jobs and manufacturing.”
06.29.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted to strengthen our economy through investments that create jobs now and ensure our students are prepared for the jobs of the future by making college more affordable. H.R. 4348 passed 373-52.“Businesses and local governments in Wisconsin and across the country will now have the certainty they need to move forward on important transportation and infrastructure projects that are so vital to our economy,” said Rep. Kind. “This is a bipartisan, job-creating bill that invests in our future, ensures we get people back to work now and creates long-term opportunities in our state.” The bill will create or save more than 2 million jobs, authorize highway and transit programs for more than two years at current levels, make key reforms consolidating transportation programs and cut red tape, and leverage federal resources to expand public-private partnerships in transportation. Every $1 billion of federal funds invested in highway and transit infrastructure is expected to create or sustain an estimated 34,800 jobs. Wisconsin is slated to receive $786 million in highway and transit infrastructure dollars in 2012. The bill also makes an important investment in our ability to grow the economy and compete globally by including the provisions to keep student loan interest rates from doubling on July 1. “We must take the steps necessary to keep students in the classroom and interest rates low so that our kids can get the education and skills they need to succeed,” said Rep. Kind. “Anyone with the talent and determination to attain a higher education should have the opportunity to do so, especially in a 21st century economy in which a growing number of jobs require a degree.” Tuition rates at four-year colleges and universities have risen over 32 percent in the last decade, piling our young adults high with student debt. In fact, two-thirds of the Class of 2010 graduated with loan debt and student loan debt now exceeds credit card debt in the United States. Western Wisconsin is home to six four-year universities, one two-year university, and four technical colleges attended by over 80,000 undergraduate students. According to the 2010-11 University of Wisconsin System Fact Book, in the entire UW system, 71 percent of resident undergraduates had loan debt at graduation, with the average loan debt being $25,397. Without Congressional action, interest rates on subsidized Stafford student loans – one of the few affordable programs for students and families – would have doubled, from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1. The bill will save 163,427 Wisconsin student borrowers (in the 2012-13 academic year) an average of $968 over the life of their loan.
06.29.2012	The Supreme Court's decision will help us move forward in changing the health care system to better ensure that all Americans have access to stable, secure, affordable health care coverage.
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today supported the decision to hold U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt for failing to provide information regarding the Fast and Furious gunwalking program at our southern border. “I have always disliked any Administration’s decision to invoke executive privilege. We need more transparency and sunshine in government - not less. “As a former prosecutor, I know that full disclosure of information is the surest way to get to the truth of any matter. That is why I was highly critical of President Bush’s decision to withhold information about the firing of numerous U.S. Attorneys in his Administration. Unless information involves state secrets that are important to our national security, I am highly suspicious of any Administration’s decision to withhold information from Congress and the American people. “Attorney General Holder has admitted to the failure and poorly conceived nature of the Fast and Furious program, which started during the Bush Administration and was known as “Operation Wide Receiver”. He has ongoing investigations moving forward at this time. Although the Attorney General has provided a significant number of documents, I fail to see any compelling reason to withhold information requested by Congress.”
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling on the Affordable Care Act. “We have a system of checks and balances in our government for good reason and the Supreme Court has agreed that the Affordable Care Act is constitutional. The ruling today will help us move forward in changing the health care system to better ensure that all Americans have access to stable, secure, affordable health care coverage. “During the health care debate, a young mother introduced me to her one-year-old son, Henry, and shared their story. Before Henry was born, he suffered a seizure in the womb and therefore, upon his first breath, they were told he was uninsurable due to a pre-existing condition. I’m especially pleased that today’s ruling ensures that Henry and the 39,000 children in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied health care. “The law isn’t perfect but it takes significant steps to get costs under control and provides important patient protections. We must find a way to continue working together to build on the important reforms made in the Affordable Care Act and continue implementing the law.”
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today expressed his concern over the Board of Regent’s decision to increase tuition across all UW System schools by 5.5 percent for the 2012-13 academic year. “Repeated cuts to education in Wisconsin mean students pay more in tuition and graduate with more debt,” said Rep. Kind. “Less state funding will mean fewer students able to afford college. This is detrimental to the future of our young people and detrimental to the economic success of our state.” Under Governor Walker, the UW System has had to absorb more than $250 million in cuts, some of the largest cuts in state history and the largest cut in education per pupil in the nation. He did this while providing nearly $1 billion in tax breaks to powerful special interests. His budget also makes a 30 percent reduction in investments in the technical college system. UW System President Kevin Reilly himself said the rate hikes are meant to help compensate for cuts in state aid. Not long ago, according to the UW System Fact Book, in 2000, the state provided 33 percent of the UW System’s funding. In 2010, that number was down to 21 percent and for the 2012-13 school year, will be at 15 percent. Universities have had to find other sources of revenue to continue providing a high caliber education. “The greatest threat we’re facing as a state and as a nation is global competition,” said Kind. “Making it more difficult and more expensive for our students to have the opportunity to develop the skills they need to be successful, is a recipe for economic decline for our state, rather than the economic renewal we need.”
05.23.2012	DoD this month Announces Recruiting And Retention Numbers For Fiscal 2008 Ad quot reque invenire eosURL=(/)
05.23.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, today visited City Brewery in La Cross to roll out legislation that encourages American manufacturing by lowering the effective tax rate for domestic manufacturers to 20 percent. Kind’s bill is supported by City Brewery as well as several western Wisconsin manufacturers that stand to benefit from the legislation. “Investing in American manufacturing is critical to remaining competitive in a global economy,” said Rep. Kind. “Reducing the effective tax rate gives our manufacturers greater opportunity to succeed globally. It will help them keep facilities in the Unites States, produce American goods, hire American workers, and continue to grow and innovate. This is a commonsense investment in America’s future.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, approximately 1.9 million workers are employed by domestic manufacturers. The manufacturing industry provides stable jobs and on average, provides wages that are above the national average and offers a gateway to the middle class. “Manufacturing is the backbone of Wisconsin’s economy,” said Kurt Bauer, President and CEO Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce. “We applaud Congressman Kind’s efforts to make Wisconsin manufacturers more competitive in a global economy.” Congressman Kind’s bill, H.R. 5795, places a high priority on supporting these stable jobs and sustainable wages in the American manufacturing industry. Movement on comprehensive tax reform must remove barriers to growth and simplify the tax code but it must also increase U.S. competitiveness, boost economic growth, and foster the creation of sustainable American jobs. The Rebuilding American Manufacturing Act does this by creating a new section of the tax code that provides a significantly lower tax rate for domestic manufacturers, providing important benefits to firms that are investing and hiring here in the United States. These firms can then use the savings to continue investments in innovation and growth. “In an increasingly competitive global economy, manufacturers like City Brewery need support to expand operations and hire here at home in the United States,” said George Parke, CEO City Brewing Company. “Congressman Kind’s bill provides precisely that support and creates future opportunities for growth and success.” “We commend Congressman Kind for his efforts to help U.S.-based manufacturing, such as Ingersoll Rand’s Trane facility in La Crosse,” said Brad Tacheny, General Manager, La Crosse Operations, Trane. “We look forward to working with him on this and other legislation to make American manufacturing more competitive.” “Today, U.S. domestic manufactures are the most productive in the world,” said Mike Bedessem, CFO Organic Valley. “Lower tax rates on this activity will help increase our competiveness as a center of world class manufacturing.” “Since our founding in the 1930s, Ocean Spray has been proud to support our country's economy by manufacturing our products in America,” said Fran Podvin, Chairman of the Board, Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. “With the passage of this bill, Ocean Spray can continue to invest in -- and create jobs at -- our manufacturing facility in Tomah, Wis. We strongly support efforts to facilitate the needed investments in the rural communities supported by the U.S. cranberry industry and related agriculture industries and commend Representative Kind for his efforts to stimulate U.S. jobs and manufacturing.” “If America wishes to compete for manufacturing jobs in an increasingly competitive global marketplace, then it must present a compelling case to businesses that are considering where they will locate their operations,” said Cindy Brown of Chippewa Valley Bean Co. “This Act helps level the playing field where taxes are concerned, putting us in a better position to bring good-paying manufacturing jobs back to our shores. It’s not only needed for the health of American manufacturing and the American economy – it’s long overdue.”
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today offered three amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act in support of military personnel, specifically those members of the armed forces from Wisconsin. The amendments include provisions to permit the Wisconsin REACT Center to expand programming, compensate National Guard troops for miscalculated leave time, and posthumously award Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing the Medal of Honor. All of the amendments passed. “Our service members, veterans, and their families deserve the best we have to offer,” said Rep. Kind. “That means support for their training, fair treatment and compensation, and awarding them the respect they deserve. I’m proud to honor the nation’s best with these amendments.” Wisconsin REACT Center: The House of Representatives today approved an amendment to the NDAA, offered by Rep. Kind, which permits the National Guard and federal agencies performing homeland defense activities to directly contract with the Wisconsin REACT Center at Volk Field for training purposes. Upon being able to train more agencies, the Wisconsin REACT Center will be able to expand their training program, creating seven full-time positions and approximately 46 part-time positions. “Providing our National Guard units and public service employees with increased opportunities to train at the Wisconsin REACT Center is just plain commonsense,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s a win for the military and service personnel who will be better prepared to safely work in the field and a win for the community, who will see local job creation.”“With this bill, The REACT Center will be able to fully support the National Guard in its rapidly evolving mission as a critical response partner in domestic emergency operations,” said Brian Satula, Administrator of Wisconsin Emergency Management. “The REACT Center teams the nation's civilian responders with our National Guard, ultimately preparing both to respond to incidents of national importance as one.” Fair Military Leave Act: The House of Representatives today approved an amendment to the NDAA, offered by Rep. Kind and Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI), to compensate National Guard troops for miscalculated leave time. The amendment corrects a government error to pay approximately 575 Army National Guard troops for leave time they earned but were unable to take after their last deployment. Twelve guardsmen in western Wisconsin and a total of 80 in the state will benefit from this correction. On average, each soldier will receive $5100 in compensation for leave time they earned, but were previously denied. The amendment incorporates H.R. 3863, the Fair Military Leave Act, which Rep. Kind introduced along with Rep. Tom Petri earlier this year. Senator Herb Kohl has also introduced a companion bill in the Senate. “These soldiers have spent time overseas defending our great nation – some in multiple deployments - and have earned their leave benefits,” said Rep. Kind. “I will do everything I can to make sure that they receive what they are entitled to.” Alonzo Cushing Medal of Honor: The House of Representatives today approved an amendment to the NDAA, offered by Rep. Kind and Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), to waive the time requirement on posthumously awarding the Medal of Honor to First Lieutenant Alonzo H. Cushing. Cushing was born in Delafield, Wis., heroically fought in the Civil War, and died during the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863. He is best remembered for his actions on the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg, in which he helped turn the tide during Pickett’s Charge. On the third day of battle, July 3, 1863, Cushing commanded 110 men and six cannons positioned on Cemetery Ridge. They received the full force of Confederate artillery and Pickett’s Charge of 13,000 infantry. Within just a few hours, all of his officers had been killed and he wounded, though he refused to withdraw from the field. He continued to fight, though he was wounded twice more, before he was ultimately killed. Today we remain one nation because of his ultimate sacrifice. Alonzo Cushing has long passed the required time to be awarded the Medal of Honor. During the Civil War, Medals of Honor were rarely awarded posthumously, and there is now a time limitation on awarding the medal. The only way to bypass this is through an act of Congressional approval to waive the time limitation, followed by the approval of the President. With the passage of this amendment, the award will go to the President’s desk for approval. “It’s an honor to be able to take the final steps to award Lieutenant Cushing the medal he so deserves,” said Rep. Kind. “On the eve of Memorial Day, it’s never too late to respect and honor our fallen heroes.” The Sons of Veterans of the Civil War were instrumental in helping move this forward. In addition, Senator Kohl introduced companion legislation in the Senate this spring.
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today opposed massive over spending and Republican plans to complicate troop withdrawal from Afghanistan as part of the House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The bill, H.R. 4310, passed 299-120. “I fully support training for our troops and providing our soldiers the equipment necessary to help them get the job done and get home safely. But we’ve got to find a way to do that and still be fiscally responsible with our defense budget. This bill is a far cry from fiscal responsibility. “The bill spends over the amount agreed to for defense spending in last year’s Budget Control Act by $8 billion, ties the Administration’s hands on troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, and includes funding for weapons systems we don’t need and the Pentagon doesn’t even want, including an unnecessary $50 billion missile defense system for the East Coast of the United States . “Our spending is out of control, we’ve got to make responsible cuts and get our fiscal house in order. And that means we’ve got to start holding the Pentagon accountable to find real savings.”
05.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, announced the winners of the 16th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest at a reception on May 12 at the University Gallery at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. “The competition drew entries from across the area, a testament to the artistic talent in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I am happy to honor these top student artists and thank all of the participants for their impressive contributions.” The winners are: 1st PlaceLars Johnson, La Crosse Logan High School “Self-Portrait” 2nd PlaceMegan Dittner, La Farge High School “Charisma” 3rd PlaceCori Strait, La Farge High School “Once in a Lifetime Pet” 4th PlaceAli Dickson, La Farge High School “Fruit Still Life” Honorable MentionsKellie Flottmaier, La Crosse Logan High School “Bitter Smoke” Pa Cha Yang, La Crosse Logan High School “Untitled” Jessica Schumaker, La Crosse Logan High School “Picture Perfect” Michael Snavely, La Farge High School“The Working Boy” Joelle Erickson, La Crosse Central High School“Jenna Leigh” Emily Jeffers, La Farge High School “The Beautiful Brightness” Edward Florence, Iowa-Grant High School “Underground Motion” Kody Klink, Durand High School“Hideaway Cat” Alejandro Itehua, Durand High School“Naïve Reality” Samantha Norby, Mondovi High School “Untitled” The first place entry, Lars Johnson’s “Self-Portrait”, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. He also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while third and fourth place works will be hang in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of the region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western Wisconsin.
05.16.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today opposed the partisan GOP bill that rolls back important protections for victims of domestic and sexual violence. The bill is significantly different than the Senate passed Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization. The Senate version passed with a bipartisan vote of 68 to 31 and upholds the tradition of VAWA Reauthorizations being bipartisan and working to ensure all victims of domestic and sexual violence should be protected. “We absolutely cannot sit back and watch these long-standing, important protections for victims of domestic violence and assault be taken away,” said Rep. Kind. “As a former prosecutor, I know how important it is to maintain these protections. We’ve got to ensure safety measures are in place and resources available for the security of everyone in our communities.” Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) has helped protect victims of domestic and sexual violence. It has twice been reauthorized with overwhelming bipartisan support, each time with important improvements to strengthen VAWA. Since the passage of the Act, annual incidents of domestic violence have dropped by more than 60 percent. H.R. 4970, the House GOP version of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization, fails to include important improvements to the Clery Act, found in the Senate-passed bill, that address the high rates of dating violence and sexual assault experienced by young people. The bill also directly discriminates against specific populations by failing to protect all people regardless of status, race, or sexual orientation. “Almost two decades of protection would take a large step backwards with the passage of this bill,” said Mary Kay Wolf, Executive Director of the YWCA of La Crosse. “Eliminating these critical provisions would remove important protections for some of the most vulnerable women in our communities. We cannot afford to take that risk.” “There shouldn’t be winners and losers – everyone deserves protection and safety, no matter their background,” said Gerald Wilkie, Executive Director of Bolton Refuge House in Eau Claire. “It is absolutely not acceptable to deny these important protections, everyone deserves to be safe. It’s not fair to play political games with people’s lives. Instead, we should be working together for the common good of all people.” “As an agency that provides lifesaving services to victims of domestic and sexual violence in our community, I can tell you that HR 4970 will divert time, money and energy away from direct services to vulnerable victims,” said Joanne Rausch, Executive Director of Passages, Inc. domestic violence and sexual assault shelter in Richland Center. “At a time when domestic violence agencies are facing increasing budget constraints and more requests for help, HR 4970, as it is currently written, will actually make it more difficult to serve victims in our community. “The bill weakens, rather than enhances, protections for victims of domestic violence,” said Ann Kappauf, Executive Director of New Horizons Shelter & Outreach Centers in La Crosse. “The network of survivors and advocates who work on a daily basis with courts, law enforcement, prosecutors, shelters, academic and medical institutions need VAWA’s tools – its laws and programs – to help keep victims safe.” More than 100 organizations oppose the House GOP bill, including such groups as the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, Break the Cycle, Legal Momentum, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Organization for Women, Feminist Majority, YWCA USA, AAUW, Business and Professional Women’s Foundation, National Women’s Law Center, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, American Bar Association, NAACP, National Council of La Raza, Human Rights Campaign, United Church of Christ, United Methodist Church, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, and National Congress of American Indians.
05.11.2012	For years now, I’ve heard concerns from land owners regarding the proposed lines. I’m concerned too. That’s why I’ve met with officials, sent letters demanding answers, and had my staff attend dozens of public hearings.
05.10.2012	Washington, DC – Following the decision made by the Wisconsin Public Service Commission to move forward with plans on the CapX2020 high-voltage transmission line, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind expressed his disappointment in the process and is encouraging people who may potentially be impacted by Badger Coulee line to make their voices heard. “For years now, I’ve heard concerns from land owners regarding the proposed lines,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m concerned too. That’s why I’ve met with officials at Xcel Energy, sent letters expressing these concerns and demanding answers, and had my staff attend dozens of public hearings. This process has been confusing and the decision making secretive. I’m disappointed in the way this decision was made.” Rep. Kind has personally met with both Xcel Energy and American Transmission Company (ATC) officials to discuss the transmission lines, sent letters to both Xcel Energy and ATC sharing the concerns he has heard from constituents and asking for answers, and has had staff attended dozens of hearings and public forums to better understand the project. “As part of this project, there is another line under consideration,” said Rep. Kind. “The process for the Badger Coulee Line has just begun. I encourage those who are concerned to make their voices heard by contacting both the Public Service Commission and ATC and by participating in upcoming public forums on the topic.” To stay posted about future opportunities to weigh in, visit the appropriate website for each project or Rep. Kind’s website. Wisconsin Public Service CommissionP.O. Box 7854Madison, Wisconsin 53707-7854(608)266-5481 Toll Free: (888)816-3831 CapX2020 Line Contact: Xcel EnergyPO Box 9437Minneapolis, MN 55440-9437www.capx2020.com/lacrosse/Email: lacrosseinfo@capx2020.com(800)-238-7968 Badger Coulee Line Contact: American Transmission Company P.O. Box 47Waukesha, WI 53187-0047www.atc-projects.comEmail: info@atcllc.comToll free: (866) 899-3204
05.09.2012	TEST
05.09.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind has introduced legislation that permits the National Guard and federal agencies performing homeland defense activities to directly contract with the Wisconsin REACT Center at Volk Field for training purposes, increasing training capacity and capabilities at the center and creating local jobs. “Providing our National Guard units and public service employees with increased opportunities to train at the Wisconsin REACT Center is just plain commonsense,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s a win for the military and service personnel who will be better prepared to safely work in the field and a win for the community, who will see local job creation.” Four facilities across the country, including the Wisconsin REACT Center, currently provide emergency management and disaster training to both civilian and military personal, including National Guard. But current legislation limits the breadth of training the Wisconsin REACT Center can provide by limiting who they can contract with. Under Rep. Kind’s bill, H.R. 5620, any military or federal organization training for homeland defense activities will be able to directly contract with the Wisconsin REACT Center for this training. Upon being able to train more agencies, including the National Guard, the Wisconsin REACT Center will be able to further expand the training program, creating seven full-time positions and increasing the part-time instructional staff from the current 24 positions to approximately 70 positions. “With this bill, The REACT Center will be able to fully support the National Guard in its rapidly evolving mission as a critical response partner in domestic emergency operations,” said Brian Satula, Administrator of Wisconsin Emergency Management. “The REACT Center teams the nation's civilian responders with our National Guard, ultimately preparing both to respond to incidents of national importance as one.” REACT has one Wisconsin location near Volk Field that includes both state of the art classroom facilities for 100 persons with distance learning capability and a 15 acre training ground. The outdoor training ground is equipped with structures to provide realistic response to collapsed lightweight and heavy construction for manmade and natural disaster response.
05.01.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, joined by university faculty and student leaders, today held a roundtable discussion on the University of Wisconsin La Crosse campus to address the rising cost of education including the potential federal student loan interest rate hike on July 1. “If interest rates for students double to 6.8 percent on July 1, more than 163,000 student borrowers across Wisconsin will see their debt load increase,” said Rep. Kind. “Instead of building more hurdles for young people to get the education and skills they need to succeed, Congress needs to take immediate steps to keep students in the classroom and interest rates low.” Tuition rates at four-year colleges and universities have risen over 32 percent in the last decade, piling our young adults high with student debt. In fact, two-thirds of the Class of 2010 graduated with loan debt and student loan debt now exceeds credit card debt in the United States. “Anyone with the skills and determination to attain a higher education should have the opportunity to do so, especially in a 21st century economy in which a growing number of jobs require a degree. These young adults not only better themselves but can provide for their families and strengthen our economy,” said Kind. If Congress does not act on the interest rate hike, interest rates on subsidized Stafford student loans – one of the few affordable programs for students and families – will double, from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1. This will increase costs for more than 7 million students in the 2012-13 academic year. Without action, next year a student borrower will pay $1,000 in additional repayment costs and $1,000 each year Congress does not act while the student is in school. According to the 2010-11 University of Wisconsin System Fact Book• There are 1,004 student loan recipients at UWL• 71 percent of UWL graduates have loan debt• Average debt of UWL borrowers is $23,411• In the entire UW system, 71 percent of resident undergraduates had loan debt at graduation, with the average loan debt being $25,397 In addition, the current budget proposal, the Ryan Budget, which has passed the House of Representatives but not the Senate, decimates student financial aid. Not only does it allow for the interest rates on subsidized Stafford loads to double from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1st, but it significantly reduces federal Pell grants. • Eliminates all mandatory funding for Pell grants• Eliminates Pell grant eligibility for less-than-half-time students, which significantly impacts students in the technical college system• Eliminates the scheduled Pell grant increases which were included in the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2010 (from $5,550 in 12-13 to $5,645 in 13-14 and to $5,725 in 14-15) The Ryan Budget also reduces the size of student work-study programs by 19 percent, potentially impacting 3,000 students in Wisconsin, and cuts TRIO funding by $159.6 million.
04.27.2012	We must act to ensure interest rates on student loans are not doubled on July 1, saddling our students with $1000 in additional debt every year. But not on the backs of women and children. Instead, let's cut subsides for Big Oil.URL=(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkoERVqZRSY&list=PL4C605AD22178E259&index=30&feature=plpp_video)
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today with his colleagues Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) introduced legislation to put an end to the $147 million in taxpayer dollars going to the Brazilian cotton agribusiness each year. “Failing to reform our own domestic cotton program has resulted in millions of taxpayer dollars unnecessarily subsidizing Brazil’s cotton industry,” said Rep. Kind. “This has got to stop. It’s clear that the Agriculture Committees aren’t going to make the commonsense reforms we need to eliminate these payouts – which is why I’ve authored this bill. We’ve got to get our priorities straight to ensure a fiscally responsible, smart food and farm bill for the 21st century.” Kind’s legislation, H.R. 5143, simply stops all payments to the Brazilian Cotton Institute. The bill also puts pressure on the House and Senate Agriculture Committees to make the necessary reforms to be World Trade Organization (WTO) compliant, ensuring American goods, services, and intellectual property aren’t subject to trade retaliations. “It’s absurd that U.S. taxpayers have been on the hook for millions to Brazil cotton farmers for years because of Congress’ unwillingness to reform our cotton subsidy programs,” said Rep. Flake. “Eliminating this penalty funding will put much-needed pressure on Congress to actually rein in our cotton subsidies so they’re WTO-compliant.” “The current model of paying off Brazilian cotton farmers only serves to coddle corporate agribusiness here in the U.S.,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “Rather than continuing to spend millions of taxpayer dollars in this way, American cotton farmers need to get their own house in order. This legislation is an important step in reducing the cost of the cotton program to the American taxpayer, while simultaneously encouraging reform.” In 2008, Brazil successfully argued before the WTO that U.S. agriculture subsidies to cotton producers violated WTO agreements. Following the WTO’s ruling, instead of reforming the cotton program, when facing retaliatory tariffs and sanctions from Brazil, Congress and the Administration agreed to pay the Brazilian cotton industry $147.3 million a year – the amount determined as the losses Brazilians incur as a result of U.S. cotton subsidies. The Senate Agriculture Committee had an opportunity to put an end to the subsidies going to the Brazilian Cotton Institute in their markup of the farm bill this week. Unfortunately, they instead created an entirely new, heavily subsidized “insurance” program for American cotton producers, which covers shallow revenue losses, and costs $3.2 billion over 10 years. “Adding a new shallow revenue loss program with unlimited payments will only burden taxpayers more and will surely be challenged again by Brazil at the WTO, risking another loss and even more costly, unnecessary payouts to foreign producers,” said Rep. Kind.
04.27.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today applauded the U.S. Department of Labor for their withdrawal of the proposed rule dealing with children under the age of 16 who work in agricultural vocations and on family farms. “The proposed labor rule would only have created an unnecessary burden on our family farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m pleased that the Department of Labor has withdrawn the rule and instead made their focus on education and the promotion of safe farm practices, as I suggested in the letters I sent to them. Our family famers have a unique way of life. We’ve got to work with them to promote best practices and safe working environments.” Following the initial proposal of the rule and having heard concerns from many family farmers in western Wisconsin, Rep. Kind emerged as a leader on this issue, personally discussing the issue with U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and sending three separate letters to the U.S. Department of Labor, requesting they revise the language related to the “parental exemption” and also modify other proposed rules. These included provisions that would limit the ability of children to move, clean, or repair a tractor, prohibit children from riding on a tractor as a passenger or helper, prohibit youth 16 and under from operating milking equipment, and prohibit youth from working with or around animals. “I will continue to fight for our family farmers and push back against proposals that threaten our way of life in western Wisconsin.” Letter to Dept. of Labor Secretary Solis 10.24.11Letter to Dept. of Labor 12.1.11Letter to Dept. of Labor Secretary Solis 12.16.11
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voiced his concern with the Senate Ag Committee’s markup of the 2012 Farm Bill, which slashes current levels of support for conservation by $6.3 billion. “These programs are vital to our family farmers and our clean water supply,” said Rep. Kind. “In addition, many state economies, including Wisconsin’s, rely heavily on outdoor conservation and tourism. This is the wrong time to be making these drastic cuts to conservation.” Conservation funding supports incentive-based land and water programs to help reduce sediment flow that would otherwise pollute our rivers and streams, and is vital to helping farmers be good stewards of the land. Today, more than half of the farmers applying for conservation programs are turned away due to inadequate funding. Coupled with rising commodity prices driving highly erodible land back into production, support for these programs is more important than ever. Wisconsin’s robust outdoor recreation industry contributes $9.7 billion to the economy, supports 129,000 jobs in the state, generates $570 million in annual state tax revenue, and produces $7.5 billion annually in retail sales and services across Wisconsin. (Outdoor Industry Foundation) In addition, hunting and angling supports 57,000 jobs in Wisconsin (Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation) and according to a study by the Trout Unlimited Driftless Area Initiative, recreational trout angling generates an economic benefit of $1.1 billion annually in the four state driftless area. “Clearly the farm bill needs reform. But deep cuts to conservation programs are not the answer. There is waste to be found – including the billions of dollars in farm subsidies supporting few but very large agribusinesses or the taxpayer funds going to subsidize Brazil’s cotton industry. We’ve got to weigh our priorities here and ensure a smart farm and food bill for the 21st century.” Kind is co-chair of the bipartisan National Parks Caucus, former co-chair of the Congressional Sportsman's Caucus and founding member of the Wildlife Refuge Caucus. Kind served on the House Natural Resources Committee from 1996-2010. He played a significant role in the 2007 farm bill through his amendment to reform wasteful taxpayer funded farm subsidies going to large agribusinesses.
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Herb Kohl and Congressman Ron Kind introduced legislation that would allow the President to award a Wisconsin native, Alonzo Cushing, the Medal of Honor. Cushing heroically fought in the Civil War and died during the Battle of Gettysburg. Alonzo Cushing was born in Delafield, Wisconsin. After graduating from West Point, he was put in command of Battery A, 4th United States Artillery, Army of the Potomac for the Union Army. During the Battle of Gettysburg, Cushing led his troops valiantly. He suffered repeated gunshot wounds during Pickett’s Charge, but continued to lead his unit before succumbing to a fatal gunshot wound. During the Civil War, Medals of Honor were rarely awarded posthumously, and there is now a time limitation on awarding the Medal of Honor. Alonzo Cushing has long passed the required time to be awarded the honor. The only way to bypass the time limitation is through an act of Congress. Former Senator Feingold nominated Alonzo Cushing for the Medal of Honor in 2003. His nomination was then reviewed and approved through the Department of the Army as well as the Secretary of Defense – a rigorous process which took over seven years to complete. The next step in the process is Congressional approval to waive the time limitation, followed by the approval of the nomination by the President. “Alonzo Cushing was a true American hero. He held his ground at the Battle of Gettysburg despite severe and ultimately fatal wounds, and led his troops to victory. His valor in combat deserves to be recognized with our nation’s highest honor.” Kohl said. “This legislation is an important step to properly honor Wisconsin’s own Alonzo Cushing with the Medal of Honor.” “Alonzo Cushing paid the ultimate sacrifice and gave his life for his country,” said Rep. Kind. “A brave Wisconsinite and respected officer, he deserves the highest honor we have to offer. I hope that finally, after so many years, our country can award him the medal he has earned.”
04.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – In honor of Earth Day, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind held a press conference this morning to highlight the importance of protecting and preserving the environment. Kind discussed the importance of Wisconsin’s natural resources in terms of the contribution to our state’s economy and laid out an Earth Day Agenda for Western Wisconsin. “We are fortunate to have an abundance of natural resources right here in our own backyard,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s important that we protect and preserve the environment, not only for our children, but for the economic impact the recreation industry has on our state.” Wisconsin’s robust outdoor recreation industry has a significant impact on jobs and the economy. Annually, the industry contributes $9.7 billion to the economy, supports 129,000 jobs, generates $570 million in annual state tax revenue, and produces $7.5 billion annually in retail sales and services across Wisconsin, according to the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation. In addition, hunting and angling support 57,000 jobs in Wisconsin. In addition, Kind outlined an agenda for western Wisconsin that includes: Maintaining funding for conservation programs through the conservation title of the Farm Bill, which will provide farmers the resources to make it easier to support our natural resources and will help protect our rivers and streams. Protecting the Mississippi River Basin from increased sediment and nutrient flows that gum up the river and poison its ecosystems. The Mississippi River annually contributes an estimated $1 billion in recreational benefits to the region.Supporting National Wildlife Refuges and Parks to provide vital protection for wildlife on America’s multiple-use federal lands. Western Wisconsin is home to three national wildlife refuges, helping our region benefit from millions of dollars these federal lands generate in economic activity.Studies show the Necedah and Trempealeau refuges provide $6.5 million in total recreation benefits, supporting a quarter of a million visitors per yearFostering appreciation for the outdoors to ensure future generations will continue to love and cherish the outdoors and work to protect our lands and waters.“I will continue my work to ensure our public lands are protected, our sportsmen and women have access to these activities, and farmers are given the resources they need to be good stewards of the land,” said Kind.
04.24.2012	We are fortunate to have an abundance of natural resources right in our own backyard. Not just on Earth day, but every day it's important that we protect and preserve these resources for our children and also for the economic future of our state.
04.18.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind and Tammy Baldwin and U.S. Sen. Herb Kohl today lauded a rule modification by the Treasury Department that prevents massive retirements among Wisconsin public safety employees. “This is a big win for Wisconsin,” said Kind. “I’ve been working to ensure a fair retirement for our public safety officers and their families for some time and with the support of Rep. Baldwin, even introduced a bill to fix this issue. I’m pleased that Treasury was able to resolve this issue quickly and we did not have to move forward with a legislative fix.” “The Treasury Department has listened and done right by Wisconsin’s police officers and fire fighters,” said Baldwin. “We owe it to our public safety officers and their families to ensure a fair retirement that honors the dangers they face at work,” she added. “This is a huge relief for communities across Wisconsin,” Kohl said. “This keeps our police officers and fire fighters on the job and allows them to determine when they are ready to retire.” Unlike other states, all of Wisconsin’s state employees – including public safety workers – are covered under the same retirement system. Currently, Wisconsin’s public safety employees, such as police officers and fire fighters, can retire at age 53 with 25 years of service or at age 54 with less than 25 years of service. Public safety officials were concerned that Treasury regulations going into effect January 1, 2013 would set a single normal retirement age (NRA) somewhere between the ages of 55 and 62 for all workers within the Wisconsin Retirement System (WRS). Because of the possible change, many public safety workers were contemplating retirement before year’s end. “This decision will ensure safer communities because hundreds of officers who may have been forced to retire prematurely will now remain actively serving,” said Dane County Sheriff David Mahoney. “I wholeheartedly thank Reps. Baldwin and Kind, and Sen. Kohl, for their direct involvement in providing for a safer Wisconsin,” Mahoney said. Kohl and Baldwin have been working to resolve this issue for many months, culminating in a letter sent to the Treasury Department last month urging a quick resolution of the issue. In addition, Kind authored and introduced legislation in the House of Representative in October of 2011 to address this issue legislatively. Specifically, Treasury agreed with an analysis by the Wisconsin Department of Employee Trust Funds that the new regulations should not apply to WRS because employees do not receive retirement benefit while they are still working. Secondly, the Treasury Department also recognized the unique nature of Wisconsin’s retirement system allowing for the current retirement ages for public safety employees. Finally, Treasury announced that it would delay the effective date for state and local government plans until no earlier than January 1, 2015. The rule modifications can be found here.
03.29.2012	Click the map to see how on the second anniversary, the Affordable Care Act works for western Wisconsin and other districts around the country.
03.27.2012	“Like” my Facebook page and you’ll get instant updates on what I'm up to in western Wisconsin and Washington, DC. Join the discussion and add you views!
03.26.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today announced the 16th Annual Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” for high school students. Organized by Congressman Kind and his wife, Tawni Kind, this event brings together high school artists from throughout western Wisconsin to recognize the tremendous talent of high school art students. “Every year, Ron and I look forward to the art competition,” said Tawni Kind. “It’s a great opportunity for us to meet the wonderful student artists from across western Wisconsin. These students are capable of amazing things and this competition is a wonderful opportunity for us to showcase their talent.” The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and four place pieces will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The deadline for submitting entries to Rep. Kind’s office is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 27, 2012. Art teachers throughout Wisconsin’s 3rd Congressional District have been notified about the competition and the rules for artwork submission. A reception to recognize the students will be held at the University of Wisconsin La Crosse’s University Gallery on Saturday, May 12, 2012 from 1:30-3:00 p.m. All participants, their families, and teachers are invited to attend. Anyone interested in entering the competition or having questions about the contest guidelines, is encouraged to call Rep. Kind’s aide, Danice Stanton, toll free at 888-442-8040.
03.21.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today announced that a new analysis shows that hundreds of thousands of people in western Wisconsin are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. The second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act falls on March 23. “In the two years since the Affordable Care Act has been made law, millions of Wisconsinites have seen lower costs and better coverage,” said Rep. Kind. “Seniors, young adults, and families right here in western Wisconsin are benefitting from important insurance protections, free preventive care and stronger Medicare benefits. And our small businesses, that have received tax credits to help them afford coverage for employees, are better able to survive and thrive, especially in a tough economy.” The new analysis shows that the new health care law has already provided: • 4,200 young adults in the 3rd Congressional District now have health insurance. Health insurers are required to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 4,200 young adults in western Wisconsin (27,511 young adults statewide) have already gained health care coverage. • 5,800 seniors in the district received prescription drug discounts worth $3.5 million. The new health care law provides a 50 percent discount for brand-name drugs for seniors in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap. Because of this provision, 5,800 seniors in western Wisconsin have already received prescription drug discounts worth $3.5 million, an average discount of $610 per senior. 59,345 Medicare recipients statewide saved a total of $37,919,307. • 86,000 seniors in the district received Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. The new health care law provides free Medicare coverage of key preventive services, such as mammograms, colonoscopies, and annual wellness visits. Because of this provision, 86,000 seniors in western Wisconsin (647,617 Medicare recipients statewide) have already received free preventive services. • 530 small businesses in the district received tax credits to help maintain or expand health care coverage for their employees. • 140,000 people, including 37,000 children, in western Wisconsin now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. The law also provides, for those enrolled in new private plans, free coverage of key preventive services. Because of this provision, 140,000 individuals under age 65 in the 3rd Congressional district (1,111,000 statewide, 54 million Americans total) have already received free preventive services, such as mammograms and check-ups. • 39,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. Insurers are prohibited from denying coverage to children for having a “pre-existing” condition. Because of this provision, up to 39,000 children with pre-existing conditions in my district are now protected against insurer denials. • $3.8 million in public health grants have been given to community health centers, hospitals, doctors, and other healthcare providers in the district to improve the community’s health. “Health care reform was needed for Wisconsin and for our nation,” said Kind. “Now is not the time to turn back to the days of more uninsured, higher costs and larger budget deficits. Reform begins to transform our health care system into one that delivers higher quality care at a lower cost, eliminates waste in the system and increases the quality of care for all Americans” More information on how the Affordable Care Act benefits Wisconsin can be found here. Report showing district by district benefits of the Affordable Care Act. Watch my interview on WKBT Channel 8 on the second anniversary here:
03.19.2012	Rep. Kind discusses legislation that aids small businesses by providing increased access to credit - so they can grow and hire. With the Senate also considering the Keystone Pipeline, Rep. Kind talks about the importance of the review and research process for this project.
03.14.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today commended the President for signing into law legislation to authorize the building of the St. Croix River Crossing Project, S. 1134. The bill received wide bipartisan support in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. “Today we celebrate an important victory,” said Rep. Kind. “After decades of work and the dedication of local stakeholders, agencies, and private entities, we can finally get to work constructing the much needed St. Croix River Crossing Project. Not only will the new bridge address local safety and transportation concerns but it will create thousands of jobs in the short-term and foster continued economic development in a very dynamic and fast growing region. I’m proud that my colleagues and I were able to come together to see this important project through. The people of the St. Croix River Valley will finally get the bridge they need and deserve.” This bill had strong bipartisan support from both the Wisconsin and Minnesota delegations, including all four senators, as well as strong support from both Governor Walker and Governor Dayton. Wisconsin and Minnesota are sharing the cost of the project; requiring no new federal money. The project is expected to great upwards of 6,000 new jobs in the area.
03.08.2012	Legislation to build the St. Croix River Crossing passed the House and is now on it's way to the President. I’m proud to have supported the project for over a decade and am thrilled that we will finally be able to build the bridge that the citizens and communities need and deserve.
03.06.2012	March is Women’s History Month - a time to recognize women leaders and honor the many contributions that they continue to make today. Make no mistake about it, women have changed the course of history.
03.01.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today commended his colleagues in the House of Representatives for passing legislation to authorize the building of the St. Croix River Crossing Project, S. 1134. The bill received wide bipartisan support with a vote of 339 to 80. Having passed the Senate earlier this year, the bill is now slated for the President’s signature. “The passage of this bill means that we’ll finally be able to meet the growing transportation needs of the St. Croix River Valley and support continued economic development in the region,” said Rep. Kind. “Thank you and congratulations to the local stakeholders; federal, state and local agencies; and private entities in the community that have worked so hard on this project. This bridge not only addresses the critical safety concerns of the region but also maintains the scenic and recreational value of the St. Croix Riverway. I’m proud to have supported the project for the last 16 years and am thrilled that we will be able to build the bridge that the citizens and communities need and deserve.” This bill had strong bipartisan support from both the Wisconsin and Minnesota delegations, including all four senators, as well as strong support from both Governor Walker and Governor Dayton. Wisconsin and Minnesota are sharing the cost of the project; requiring no new federal money. The project is expected to great upwards of 6,000 new jobs in the area.
02.23.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today expressed his concern regarding an announcement by the United States Postal Service (USPS) to move all mail processing operations from both the Eau Claire processing and distribution facility and the La Crosse processing and distribution facility to St. Paul, Minnesota. “The decision to close these facilities is disappointing,” said Rep. Kind. “Not only will this slow services to our rural communities, but the closings mean that nearly 70 people in western Wisconsin will be out of work. I am not convinced that moving the processing and distribution to the other side of the river will improve postal service or efficiency.” Rep. Kind has previously sent letters to the Postmaster General as well as the U.S. Postal Regulatory Commission asking for consideration in keeping both facilities up and running. The timing for these closings has not been announced. Until a date is announced, USPS has said the facilities will operate as usual.
02.17.2012	The payroll tax extension is a good thing – but I’m positive we could have found a way to pay for it instead of adding $89.3 billion to the deficit. We cannot continue to spend without finding offsets in the budget, especially when there is so much government waste.
02.17.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron today voted for fiscal responsibility, opposing the payroll tax extension that Republicans found no way to pay for, adding $89.3 billion to the national debt over the next 10 years. “The payroll tax extension is a good thing – but I’m positive we could have found a way to pay for it instead of adding $89.3 billion to the deficit. Too many of my colleagues talk deficit reduction but they voted in favor of extending the trillion dollar Bush tax cuts last year, making no effort to pay for them, and are now doing the same thing with the payroll tax extension. We cannot continue to spend without finding offsets in the budget, especially when there is so much government waste. We should not burden our children and grandchildren with these decisions. “There are obvious ways to find savings in the budget. Every year, over $30 billion in taxpayer dollars goes to wasteful farm subsidies that fund only a few large agribusinesses, don’t help family farmers and only distort the market. We have 80,000 troops stationed in Western Europe protecting us from nonexistent Cold War threats and the latest GAO report states that our weapons programs are $300 billion over budget. There are also savings to be found in reforming our health care system so we get better value for the dollars we’re spending. When one out of every three health care dollars is spent on things that don’t work, in the fastest and largest growing spending program in the federal budget, that’s where we can find cost savings. I’m disappointed that more effort wasn’t’ made to find appropriate ways to pay for the extension of payroll tax relief.”
02.13.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today toured the manufacturing facility and met with employees at global supercomputing leader, Cray Inc. in Chippewa Falls. Currently employing more than 220 people throughout the Chippewa Valley, Cray develops innovative supercomputers used to accelerate scientific research and engineering. “Right here in our own backyard we have a global, innovative leader in the computing industry, creating jobs and strengthening the local economy,” said Rep. Kind. “In order to increase American competitiveness and remain the most creative, innovative country in the world, we need to follow the lead of successful companies like Cray. And we must make investments in math, science and engineering programs in our colleges and universities to foster the next generation of innovative leaders.” Cray provides supercomputing platforms that enable scientists and engineers in academia, government, and industry to solve problems more quickly, enhance productivity and better meet a wide variety of computing challenges across a number of applications. Cray plays an important role in the local economy and works with several suppliers in Chippewa Falls and Eau Claire. Wayne Kugel, Cray’s Senior Vice President of Customer Service and Quality, invited Rep. Kind to tour Cray’s facility and join employees for a meet and greet. About 85 employees currently live in the Third Congressional District. Cray’s other major facilities include St. Paul and Seattle, where the company’s corporate headquarters is located. “It was a real honor to host Congressman Kind today and give him an up-close view of our manufacturing facilities, our supercomputing products and the people who work very hard at putting them together,” said Kugel. “We take great pride in designing and building innovative supercomputers that give researchers, scientists and engineers the computing resources they need to solve some of the world’s most pressing scientific challenges. It’s this passion that drives our company, and it’s exciting to be able share this first hand with our political leaders.”
02.13.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement in response to the President’s annual budget. “I’m pleased the President’s budget takes a balanced approach by working to get our fiscal house in order in a way that still provides room for our economy to continue improving. This is a good step and the start of a larger conversation the President is going to need to have with Congress and the American people about how to put our country on a long-term sustainable path. “Smart investments in areas like education, infrastructure, manufacturing and worker training are important for economic growth. But we have to stay focused on rising health care costs, the major cost driver in all budgets – federal, state and local as well as for most family and business budgets. That’s why I’ve been working so hard to change the way we pay for health care to one that’s based on the value of care given and no longer the volume of care, giving us a better bang for our health care buck.”
02.09.2012	Rep. Kind discusses the importance of the STOCK Act, which prohibits Members of Congress, staff and executive and judicial branch officials from trading based on insider information and requires increased disclosure of stocks, bonds and securities.
02.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted to make sure Members of Congress, congressional staff, Executive Branch officials, and judicial officers have to play by the same rules as everyone else regarding insider trading.“Members of Congress, their staff, and other federal employees should have to abide by the same rules as everyone else,” said Rep. Kind. “In no way should they be allowed to make stock decisions based on information not available to the American public. The Stock Act is an important piece of legislation to prevent this reckless behavior and instill greater transparency in our government.” The STOCK Act prohibits Members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It makes clear that they are not exempt from the federal law and regulations that ban insider trading. It also requires Members to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 30 days of notification of the transaction, allowing up to 45-days if there is an extension granted. The information would be posted online. The new reporting requirements would not apply to transactions involving investments in widely held investment funds (i.e. mutual funds or 529s).“I do not make personal stock investments and have never traded based on private information. Though for full disclosure, I did recently purchase a share of stock in the Green Bay Packers.”Under the STOCK Act, similar disclosure requirements would apply to many federal employees in the executive branch, including the White House, cabinet departments and independent agencies. The Act also prohibits lawmakers, top federal officials and their aides from receiving special access to initial public offerings due to their positions.
02.03.2012	We added 243,000 jobs in January, marking the 23rd consecutive month of private sector job growth. There's more work to be done and jobs to be created. One smart way is to invest in infrastructure.
02.02.2012	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted to freeze pay for Members of Congress through 2013.“Too many people are looking for work and too many middle class families are struggling to pay their bills right now,” said Rep. Kind. “Members of Congress should not be getting a pay raise.”Rep. Kind has repeatedly voted for a Member pay freeze and for years opposed the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress. A fiscal hawk, he gives back a portion of his office budget to pay down the deficit each year, for a total of over $1.2 million since he first took office, and continues to lead the effort for earmark reform, forgoing requests since 2008 and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process. “We need to put the partisanship aside get to work - and show the American people that we are serious about getting this economy back on track and creating good paying jobs again,” said Kind.
02.01.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today applauded the U.S. Department of Labor for agreeing to re-examine a controversial rule they proposed which would prevent children from working on family farms. “These rules would create an unnecessary burden on our family farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “They don’t make sense and don’t take into account the way our family farms operate. I encourage the Department of Labor to continue to work with the Department of Agriculture as well as farmers and ranchers across the country to make sure labor regulations are not only reasonable, but work for and are in the best interest of our family farmers.”Following the initial proposal of the rule and having heard concerns from many family farmers in western Wisconsin, Rep. Kind sent three separate letters to the U.S. Department of Labor, requesting they revise the language related to the “parental exemption” and also modify other proposed rules. These included provisions that would limit the ability of children to move, clean, or repair a tractor, prohibit children from riding on a tractor as a passenger or helper, prohibit youth 16 and under from operating milking equipment, and prohibit youth from working with or around animals. At a meeting with his agriculture advisory group just last week, Joe Bragger of the Wisconsin Farm Bureau thanked Rep. Kind for his work to push back on the proposed rule. “Just like when the Environmental Protection Agency tried to regulate spilled milk, this is a clear example of a federal agency going too far,” said Kind. “I will continue to fight for our family farmers and push back against proposals that complicate this way of life.”
02.01.2012	Washington DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind along with U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, and Rep. Tom Petri, introduced the Fair Military Leave Act. This legislation will compensate soldiers for miscalculated leave time following their military deployment. Last year, Kohl introduced this legislation as an amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization bill.“Close to 600 of our brave guardsmen and women, including 80 in Wisconsin, have been affected by this negligent miscalculation,” said Rep. Kind. “These soldiers have spent time overseas defending our great nation – some in multiple deployments - and have earned their leave benefits. I will do everything I can to make sure that they can make full use of these benefits.”These troops served with honor and earned extra leave time after multiple or extended deployments overseas, but a miscalculation prevented them from using that leave. This legislation will correct the error by providing the option to cash out this unused leave time. It’s the right thing to do,” Kohl said.Rep. Petri said, "Unfortunately, this situation affects Army National Guardsmen in Wisconsin more than in any other state. Clerical errors made during demobilization caused hundreds of soldiers to be wrongly denied their paid leave, and the errors were noticed well after they were eligible to use it. None of these troops decided not to take their earned vacation days, and the Fair Military Leave Act would not allow soldiers who are deploying in the future to exchange vacation days for cash, but instead, would only apply to those who have missed out on what is rightfully theirs. A mistake was made by the government and it's our responsibility to fix it."In 2007, the Army began a program that offered additional paid leave for soldiers after they returned home from multiple or extended deployments overseas. The Army miscalculated the leave time for hundreds of soldiers including members of the Wisconsin National Guard’s 1157th Transportation Company. The Army corrected the mistake on the soldiers’ records, but will only allow them to use the unused leave after their next deployment. However, many of these soldiers have since left the military or will not be deployed again, making it impossible for them to use the leave they earned. The Fair Military Leave Act gives these troops the option of cashing out this unused leave.The Fair Military Leave Act is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States.
01.26.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today met with his agriculture advisory committee, a group made up of local farmers and stakeholders from across western Wisconsin. Rep. Kind hosted the meeting in his La Crosse office today to share news from Washington as well as to hear the group’s concerns about ag issues, including the upcoming farm bill, risk management tools, milk markets and changes to the MILC program, and newly proposed labor rules, among others.“It’s important to sit around the table and discuss the issues that so greatly impact western Wisconsin and our state,” said Rep. Kind. “Hearing from this group helps me understand where our family farmers are struggling, how I can help facilitate support, and the things we can work on together to bring greater efficiencies and growth to the industry.”A major topic of today’s discussion was the upcoming farm bill, which is expected to be considered later this year as programs are set to expire on September 30, 2012. Rep. Kind has long been an advocate for reforming the programs that steer taxpayer funded subsides to very few but very large agribusinesses, resulting in the top 10 percent of recipients getting 76 percent of subsidy dollars.“These subsidies are fiscally irresponsible and only distort the marketplace,” said Kind. “Our local farmers are not getting the support they need, while addresses in Chicago and San Francisco are getting thousands of dollars in direct payments. We must reform these subsidies.”According to the Environmental Working Group, in 2010, the government sent $394 million in farm subsidy payments to residents of U.S. cities with populations of 100,000 or more. In Chicago alone, 734 farm subsidy recipients pulled in a total of $2,173,344.Attendees at today’s roundtable included: Steve Boe, Wisconsin Farm Bureau; Mike Compton, Director of UW-Platteville School of Agriculture; Wade Miller, Farm Service Agency; Timothy K. Rehbein, Vernon County UW-Extension; Missy Hughes, Organic Valley; among more than a dozen others.Great meeting and good farm bill discussion w/ my ag advisory group in La Crosse 2day.yfrog.com/oefzikwj— Rep. Ron Kind (@RepRonKind) January 26, 2012
01.26.2012	Our number one priority must be getting the economy back on track and creating good paying jobs. But we also need to make smart investments to ensure our economy is built to last.
01.24.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union Address.“I couldn’t agree with the President more – our number one priority must be getting the economy back on track and creating good paying jobs. We need a growing economy to support hard working families in western Wisconsin and across the country. We’ve made progress by adding 3.2 million private sector jobs in the last 22 months – but there’s more work to be done.“We need to make smart investments to ensure our economy is built to last. We must invest in our workers and strengthen manufacturing so we can remain competitive in the global economy. We have to support education, so that we can foster the next generation of leaders – and ensure America remains the most creative, innovative country in the world. And we need a long-term plan for deficit reduction to get our fiscal house in order, so we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.“And in order to get anywhere, we’re going to have to come together, listen to each other, and find common ground to the challenges we are facing. There’s more work – and more relationship building - to be done. I sat with my good friend and Republican colleague Rep. Dave Reichert at tonight’s address. Sitting together may only be symbolic, but it identifies those of us that are still willing to put our differences aside and take steps towards building consensus. The clock is ticking – we must find a way to work together and rebuild a strong, long-lasting economy.”We must focus on the economy & job creation but also make smart investments to ensure our economy is built to last. 1.usa.gov/yKJluU— Rep. Ron Kind (@RepRonKind) January 25, 2012
01.20.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today announced that he will sit with Republican Congressman Dave Reichert at the State of the Union Address on Tuesday, January 24. Kind was the first and is one of two members of the Wisconsin delegation to heed the call by No Labels, a nonprofit organization calling for Members of Congress to sit with a colleague from the other party as part of their action plan to “make our government work again”. “We’ve got to get past the hyper-partisanship and find the common ground that I know exists,” said Rep. Kind. “I have always been willing to work across the aisle on issues important to western Wisconsin and the nation. Sitting together identifies those of us that are still willing to put our differences aside and take the first steps towards building consensus.”Throughout his time in Congress, Rep. Kind has worked with his Republican colleagues on a number of issues including those involving taxes incentives, small businesses, sportsmen, obesity, farm bill reform and the St. Croix River Crossing project. Both members of the House Ways and Means Committee, Rep. Kind has for years worked with Rep. Reichert on multiple small business bills including the Small Business Pension Protection Act and the SAVE Act, among others, as well as on legislation related to the environment and reforming the farm bill. In addition, Kind and Reichert are co-chairs of the National Parks Caucus.“We can’t afford another year plagued by a Congress unwilling to compromise. We’ve got to show the American people that we are willing to work together to move this country in the right direction.”Especially during the 112th Congress, Rep. Kind has often voiced his frustration with the gridlock and hyper-partisanship plaguing Congress.We can’t afford to be plagued by hyper-partisanship. I hope my colleagues will join me 2 #sittogether at #sotu. 1.usa.gov/wXTiZ7— Rep. Ron Kind (@RepRonKind) January 20, 2012
12.23.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement regarding the agreement to and passage of the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011."I commend this agreement and Speaker Boehner for doing the right thing - standing up to the Tea Party Caucus that was irresponsibly willing to increase taxes on 160 million Americans and let unemployment benefits expire for 41,000 Wisconsinites."The fight wasn't about the length of the extension; it was about how to pay for a one-year deal. And as we address the longer-term issue it's going to come down to whether or not Republicans will agree that millionaires should finally have to pay their fair share. This extension should absolutely not be done on the shoulders of the middle-class but should instead provide the certainty and support our hard-working families need and deserve right now."
12.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03) together with House members Tammy Baldwin (WI-02), Thomas Petri (WI-06), Sean Duffy (WI-07), Reid Ribble (WI-08), Tim Walz (MN-01), Michele Bachmann (MN-06), and Chip Cravaack (MN-08), today sent a letter to Natural Resources Committee Chairman Doc Hastings regarding H.R. 850, a bill facilitating a new St. Croix River Crossing. The letter asks Chairman Hastings to help move the bill forward by bringing it to the House floor for a vote as soon as possible.“This bill has strong support back home, strong support from both Governor Walker and Governor Dayton, and strong support from the bipartisan congressional delegation,” said Rep. Kind. “It is critical that we move this bill to the House floor for a vote. The St. Croix River Crossing project has waited long enough. We must fulfill the transportation needs of the area and work to bring much needed jobs to the region. We must get this bridge across the finish line.”The bill, H.R. 850, and its Senate companion, S. 1134, have overwhelming support and have both passed their respective committees of jurisdiction. The bill is currently awaiting full congressional action.Letter here.
12.21.2011	This year has been plagued by partisanship. We must put our differences aside and find the common ground that I know exists to do what is best for our country - to get our economy back on track and creating good paying jobs again.
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement today following House action on the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011, H.R. 3630. House Republicans rejected the Senate-passed bipartisan bill extending the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits.“We cannot afford to increases taxes, by an average of $1020, on hard-working Wisconsin families who are doing everything they can just to make ends meet, nor strip away unemployment benefits from 41,100 Wisconsinites who depend on them. We must continue working to strengthen the economy and this is an important step in the right direction.“Though passing a short-term extension isn’t ideal, it’s the best the Senate can do now and the only way to ensure those who need assistance will find some relief.“Too many Members in the House are again playing games that threaten the middle class and our economic recovery. We cannot continue to wait until the last minute to do our jobs - and bring relief to working families.”
12.16.2011	Our servicemen and women are the best our nation has to offer. We should thank them and maintain our promise to support them here at home. Now is the time to concentrate on building our own nation - one worthy of our veterans' sacrifice.
12.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today called out his Republican colleagues for saying one thing and doing another when it comes to deficit reduction. As part of the Defense Authorization bill on the House floor today, Republicans stripped from the bill a provision requiring the Pentagon to complete an audit by 2014. “I fully support training for our troops and providing our soldiers the equipment necessary to help them get the job done and get home safely,” said Rep. Kind. “But we all know there are savings to be found in the defense budget. It is hypocritical that my Republican colleagues preach fiscal responsibility yet when they have a chance to hold the Pentagon accountable to find real savings, they kick the can down the road. This is totally and completely irresponsible to the American people and to our troops.”Making up half of all of our federal discretionary spending, there are significant ways to cut the Defense Department budget and put savings toward deficit reduction. Current weapons programs, which are $300 billion over budget, and which the Pentagon doesn’t even request, could be eliminated. To rein in spending, Congress passed a law in 1994 that required the Pentagon to complete a full financial audit by 1997. But the Defense Department has repeatedly failed to meet that deadline. The most recent deadline, set for 2014, has the full support of the Pentagon, but has been postponed by Republicans in Congress for another three years, again delaying an attempt to find significant cost savings in the budget.
12.13.2011	New reports indicated that Medicare beneficiaries have seen significantly lower health care costs, including prescription drug discounts and free preventive care, as a result of health care reform, the Affordable Care Act.Read more:
12.08.2011	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind highlighted a report today indicating that Medicare beneficiaries have seen significantly lower health care costs, including prescription drug discounts and free preventive care, as a result of health care reform, the Affordable Care Act.“Health care reform is providing security and stability for our seniors, strengthening Medicare and closing the prescription drug donut hole,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s clear that the Affordable Care Act is working for our seniors and for Wisconsin.”According to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), as of the end of October, 2.65 million people with Medicare have already received the 50 percent discount on brand-name drugs for those in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage gap, saving more than $1.5 billion on their prescriptions– averaging about $569 per person. Wisconsin’s savings averaged higher – about $606 a person. In addition, more than 24.2 million people, including 440,011 in Wisconsin, took advantage of at least one free preventive benefit, including the new Annual Wellness Visit – made possible by the Affordable Care Act.”AARP is pleased that Medicare beneficiaries in Wisconsin are seeing their prescription costs decrease and are getting much-needed preventive benefits to keep them healthy,” said Lisa Lamkins, Advocacy Director AARP Wisconsin.Under the Affordable Care Act:836,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Wisconsin are eligible to receive free preventive services – like mammograms and colonoscopies – as well as a free annual wellness visit with their doctor.64,041 Wisconsin residents who hit the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole” received $250 tax-free rebates in 2010, and received a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole this year.WI Medicare beneficiaries see significant savings - avg $606/ person this year - thanks to health care reform.youtu.be/8EIratcK50w— Rep. Ron Kind (@RepRonKind) December9, 2011
12.02.2011	We gained 120,000 jobs in November, meaning 21 consecutive months of private sector job growth. We are on the right track but there's more work to be done. We have to think outside the box, support our employers, and help them maintain and grow their businesses.
12.01.2011	Meeting with the people of western Wisconsin remains my favorite part of the job. I know that keeping in touch with my constituents is the key to being an effective representative in Washington. URL=()
12.01.2011	I’m committed to making the tough decisions to actually cut wasteful and unnecessary spending. And I also want to hear what you would cut and why.URL=(/index.cfm?sectionid=64)
12.01.2011	On November 21, 2011, the Supercommittee announced that they failed to reach an agreement to reduce the deficit. I think this is a huge disappointment and another missed opportunity.
12.01.2011	DoD this month Announces Recruiting And Retention Numbers For Fiscal 2008URL=(/)
11.30.2011	test
11.21.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement today regarding the announcement by the Supercommittee that they have failed to reach an agreement to reduce the deficit.“The announcement today that the Supercommittee has failed to reach consensus in developing a long-term deficit reduction proposal is a huge disappointment and another missed opportunity. We know what we have to do - multiple bipartisan commissions have told us that we have to look not just at reforming federal programs with an eye on cost savings, but also increasing our revenue if we want to achieve long-term deficit reduction.“Despite their failure, Congress cannot fail the American people. We cannot stop work on one of the most important issues facing our nation today – getting our fiscal house in order. Time is of the essence. We do not know when the bond markets will begin turning on us and the era of cheap money financing our budget deficits will end. We owe it to future generations to clean up this mess and get America on a sound fiscal path.“That’s why I’ve been working on my own deficit reduction plan. We have to go where the money is. We can reform our health care system so we get better value for the dollars we’re spending, changing the way we’re paying for it so we’re rewarding good quality care as opposed to the volume of care. We can cut defense spending by getting rid of outdated weapons programs. We can reform the farm bill and put an end to huge taxpayer subsidies going to large agribusiness, that don’t help family farmers and only distort the market. We also need to look at the tax code – which is riddled with loopholes and tax credits and special breaks that only the wealthy or only the most powerful corporations in American can take advantage of. “We must get to work right away to put together a plan to get our fiscal house in order before the markets start turning on us here in America.” We must get our fiscal house in order, time is of the essence. Failure of the #supercommittee is a missed opportunity. bit.ly/sP7gVD— Rep. Ron Kind (@RepRonKind) November 21, 2011
11.18.2011	In an effort to prevent the out of control spending by Republicans that created the current deficit dilemma, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, a long time fiscal hawk, today supported the Balanced Budget Amendment, which would amend the Constitution to require a majority vote in each house to pass any legislation that increases spending.“We must get our fiscal house in order, we owe it to future generations,” said Rep. Kind. “And if my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are unwilling to reinstate Pay-As-You-Go Budgeting, which I fully supported and which led to four years of budget surpluses in the 90s, the next best check we can place on fiscal mismanagement is the Balanced Budget Amendment. Congress needs rules to instill greater fiscal discipline in the decisions that we’re making.”The Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution (H.J. Res. 2) would prevent deficit spending without Congressional approval. The amendment would:• Require a 3/5 vote in each house of Congress to spend in excess of receipts in any fiscal year;• Require a 3/5 vote in each house of Congress to raise the debt limit;• Require the President to submit a budget prior to each fiscal year where expenses do not exceed receipts;• Require a majority vote in each house to pass any legislation that increases revenue;• Allow Congress to waive the provisions of the amendment for any fiscal year in which a declaration of war or military conflict is in effect“President Bush and the Republican majority eliminated Pay-As-You-Go Budgeting which led to years of fiscal recklessness. It enabled two wars, two huge tax cuts benefiting the wealthy, and the largest expansion of entitlement spending since Medicare was created in 1965 with a new prescription drug bill - all of which was unpaid for – and all which helped double our national debt in eight short years. We cannot afford this kind of reckless spending. And we cannot wait; we must take a strategic, bipartisan approach to balancing the budget and make the tough decisions to find a long-term solution for the sake of economic growth and job creation now but for future generations especially.”
11.16.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind together with the House and Senate members of both the Wisconsin and Minnesota delegations today met with U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood and U.S. Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar on Capitol Hill to show bipartisan, bicameral support; request the support of the Administration; and discuss the future of the long-overdue St. Croix River Crossing Project. “There is clearly widespread agreement that a new bridge needs to be built,” said Rep. Kind. “I am pleased that both Secretary LaHood and Secretary Salazar see the urgency of the situation and understand that building this bridge helps meet the transportation needs of the community. Along with the bipartisan support of both Governors as well as my colleagues in Congress, this meeting adds momentum to getting this project across the finish line.”Those in attendance today include: Sens. Klobuchar, Franken and Johnson, Reps. Duffy, Bachmann (by phone), McCollum, Petri, Kind, Minnesota Department of Transportation Commissioner Tom Sorel, Wisconsin Department of Transportation Secretary Mark Gottlieb, Park Service Director Jon Jarvis, and Federal Highway Administrator Victor Menendez.
11.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – With just over a week before the Super Committee's deadline, today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind stood with a bipartisan group of U.S. Senators and Representatives urging the Super Committee to “go big.”This bicameral effort represents the first time House and Senate Democrats and Republicans have come together on a large scale to announce their support for a comprehensive $4 trillion plan to reduce the deficit. House Members recently released a bipartisan letter with 102 signatures calling on the Super Committee to “go big,” following a similar bipartisan Senate letter signed by 45 Senators. “There’s bipartisan support for large deficit reducing measures - but in order to get there, everything must be on the table – including big cuts and revenue raisers,” said Rep. Kind. “The Super Committee has a big job to do to get our fiscal house in order – and they need our support. We must put politics aside, find the common ground that I know exists, and make the tough choices that are best for our country, the American people deserve it.”The letter from both the House and Senate was sent to the Super Committee on November 2, 2011. “To succeed, all options for mandatory and discretionary spending and revenues must be on the table”, wrote the lawmakers. “In addition, we know from other bipartisan frameworks that a target of some $4 trillion in deficit reduction is necessary to stabilize our debt as a share of the economy and assure America’s fiscal well-being.”The Super Committee must put forth legislation by November 23. Pending they are able to put forth a proposal, the House and Senate must then pass the legislation by December 23 to avoid automatic cuts to the budget.
11.07.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today announced that the City of Eau Claire has received at $880,000 grant from the Federal Transit Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation to purchase hybrid buses.“Replacing aging city buses with clean energy buses is not only good for the environment, but is good for the city’s pocketbook,” said Rep. Kind. “At time of restrained budgets across the state, these buses will help the city save money and spend more efficiently.”As transit ridership in Eau Claire now exceeds one million riders, the City Council understands that public transportation is a vital resource for the city. By 2013, with the help of federal grants, the City of Eau Claire will phase out three aging city buses from its fleet and will replace them with hybrid buses. Each hybrid bus costs $545,000 to $550,000, with 20 percent of that cost paid by the city.“The City Council is grateful for the leadership shown by Mike Branco, Transit Manager for the City, in submitting this successful grant proposal,” said Kerry Kincaid, President, Eau Claire City Council. “Eau Claire is one of a few cities in the state to be awarded an FTA grant under the Good Repair Program. Because of his work, we can now put to rest three very old and energy inefficient buses. This will help our citizens ride with more safety and pride.”For years, Rep. Kind has called for a more forward-looking approach to energy – one that would embrace higher fuel efficiency standards for vehicles; include increased research, development, and deployment of renewable energy technology; and a focus on a more diverse energy supply including renewable energy and biomass.
11.03.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today with a bipartisan group of 26 members sent a letter to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (Super Committee) expressing concern over the intent of the House and Senate Agriculture Committees to push through a “secret” Farm Bill.“Very few Members negotiating and adding new entitlements to a secret farm bill is not the kind of deficit reducing farm reform we need,” said Rep. Kind. Targeted agriculture spending cuts should definitely be on the table but creating costly new farm programs should not. The Super Committee should avoid pushing through a complex new farm bill without giving Congress the opportunity to debate and amend this important legislation.”Rep. Kind has long been an advocate for reforming farm bill programs that steer taxpayer funded subsides to very few but very large agribusinesses, resulting in the top 10 percent of recipients getting 76 percent of subsidy dollars. These subsidies are fiscally irresponsible and only distort the marketplace.Tasked with reducing the deficit by $1.5 trillion between 2012 and 2021, the Super Committee will consider several cuts and make a recommendation to Congress by November 23. These recommendations are not subject to amendment or filibuster. The cosigners of the letter are in favor of targeted agriculture cuts and finding efficiencies within current programs, but do not support the creation of new farm programs without Congressional consideration. “It has become apparent that some believe they can create new programs and entitlements with limited Congressional scrutiny and input. We urge the Joint Select Committee to resist proposals that would go beyond its mandate of deficit reduction and authorize new, complicated agriculture programs that have not been the subject of Congressional review,” write the lawmakers.In addition, a dozen organizations and farm bill stakeholders from across the political spectrum have endorsed the letter."We thank Rep. Kind and all of the other signatories for their effort to stop the subsidy lobby from writing a new farm bill behind closed doors with a brand new entitlement that provides a business income guarantee for farm operations with vast land-holdings that are enjoying record profits," said Craig Cox, Vice President of Agriculture and Natural Resources at the Environmental Working Group. "We need an open, democratic process to produce a farm bill that meets the needs of all Americans."“Federal agricultural programs are in need of fundamental structural reform so that they are fiscally sustainable and economically sound,” said Pete Sepp, Executive Vice President of National Taxpayers Union. “The National Taxpayers Union (NTU) urges the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to concentrate on these principles when examining federal farm policy, instead of venturing into new entitlements that could have adverse consequences for taxpayers. NTU commends the efforts of Representative Kind and his colleagues in ensuring that the Joint Select Committee focuses on bringing federal farm spending under control."“Anyone who thinks a bill driven by industry lobbyists, written behind closed doors, and negotiated in secret will be a good deal for taxpayers or the hungry should have their head examined, said Jim French, Kansas Farmer and Agriculture Advocacy Lead for Oxfam America. “The ‘Secret Farm Bill’ has done the seemingly impossible, uniting Democrats and Republicans in Congress to oppose this bad bill. Members of the Super Committee should reject the ‘Secret Farm Bill’.”Click here for the letter.
10.26.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today released the following statement following President Obama’s announcement to ease student loan burdens. “Ensuring our students access to an affordable college education is key to our economic success and competitiveness as a nation. Investing in our students will help us remain the most innovative, creative country in the world. I commend the President for helping ease the student loan burden for college graduates. This step will help the nearly 70,000 students in western Wisconsin more easily afford an education and will help local graduates reduce their monthly payments and save money as they start their careers in a tough job market.”
10.26.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today congratulated Onalaska Officer Jim Page and La Crosse County Deputy Sheriff Dan Baudek on receiving the U.S. Justice Department's Congressional Badge of Bravery.“I want to congratulate Officer Jim Page and Deputy Sheriff Dan Baudek on their exceptional acts of bravery and tremendous skill in upholding the law, even in the direst circumstances. Their quick thinking and selfless acts were critical to protecting the lives at stake. This badge is a true testament to their ability to go above and beyond in their duties. These officers are outstanding members of our community and will undoubtedly serve as role models to our area and the nation.”
10.21.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today released the following statement following President Obama’s remarks on Iraq.“I commend the President for following through on his promise to withdraw our troops from Iraq by the end of this year. The Iraqis must now take full responsibility for their country and make the tough political compromises vital to achieving lasting peace. “Our troops and their families have given up so much for our country and we can never thank them enough. I’ve made four trips to Iraq and nothing has made me more proud to be an American than seeing the job our men and women in uniform do to keep us safe.“We will never forget those Wisconsin soldiers who made the ultimate sacrifice serving in Iraq. As we take care of our troops in conflict, I promise to take care of our veterans when they return home, ensuring they receive the honor and benefits they deserve. “It’s time to complete our mission in Iraq and bring our troops home safe and sound.”
10.21.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today released the following statement following the news of Qaddafi’s death in Libya."We have one less dictator, one less tyrant in the Middle East, and that's a good thing. There may be some instability as the Libyan people determine their future, but I’m hopeful they'll choose the path of peace and a representative form of government. This is a milestone for Libya, a revolution executed almost entirely by rebel forces that succeeded in overthrowing a dictator who had been controlling them for far too long.”
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted to support the comprehensive trade package that included the three pending bilateral trade agreements and the long-awaited reauthorization of Trade Adjustment Assistance. Businesses both large and small in western Wisconsin and across the country benefit as the agreements create new opportunities to sell goods to millions of customers abroad. “It’s time for us to get back in the game,” said Rep. Kind. “The agreements break down unfair trade barriers and create new opportunities for American businesses and family farmers to sell goods and services to millions of customers in foreign markets, ensuring our economic competitiveness in a global economy. A robust and aggressive trade agenda will help get us back on track creating the good paying jobs that we desperately need right now.”The negotiated agreements, improved by the Obama Administration, help level the playing field for American businesses and farmers. They include enforceable rules to better protect our goods, ensure accountability and fairness, and protect workers’ rights, enabling our businesses sell more of their goods to new customers across the globe. The agreements not only lead to business growth here at home but by fostering honest, open relationships with key trading partners and strategic allies, strengthen our national security as well.Trade is not just for multinational corporations, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce, small to medium sized businesses make up 97 percent of U.S. exporters and account for nearly a third of all exports. And as demand grows for American goods and services abroad, American exporters will grow, innovate and hire here at home. The International Trade Commission estimates that the Korea free trade agreement alone could create up to 3,743 jobs in Wisconsin.“The elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers in Korea, Colombia, and Panama is critical to helping us level the playing field for our exports in those growing markets,” said Jeff Rageth, Vice President of 3M Public Affairs. “Korea is the fourth largest export market for 3M, at $410 million. Colombia and Panama are also important markets, with $32 million and $10 million in sales in 2010 respectively. Passage of the agreements will lower the effective duty rate on our products, eliminating millions in duty barriers to 3M’s U.S. manufactured products. The trade agreements will help boost U.S. exports to and engagement in these markets, thereby helping to maintain and grow jobs and investments for 3M at home.”“Trane is pleased to see that the House of Representatives today approved the Free Trade Agreements with Colombia, Korea and Panama,” said Brad Tacheny, General Manager at Trane. “We normally export about 50 percent of the products manufactured in La Crosse, so anything that reduces the import tariff in the countries to which we ship chillers is welcomed. We thank Congressman Kind and the entire House for supporting these important initiatives.”"These three trade agreements will be a boon for U.S. pork producers and for the U.S. economy and jobs,” said Doug Wolf, a Lancaster, Wis. producer and President of the National Pork Producers council. “When they are fully implemented, they will add more than $11 to the price pork producers receive for each hog marketed and help generate more than 10,000 pork industry jobs, including 95 in Wisconsin and 34 of those in the 3rd Congressional District. America's pork producers are grateful to Congressman Kind for his support of these important trade agreements."“Exports are an important part of U.S. and Wisconsin cranberry sales, increasing from less than 10 percent of production to 25 percent in recent years,” said Tom Lochner, Executive Director of the Wisconsin State Cranberry Growers Association. “The cranberry growers in Wisconsin stand to benefit from the passage of the free trade agreements, which will lower the high Korean tariffs we currently face, allowing our growers to increase U.S. cranberry product exports and be competitive in these new markets.”“Robust and open international trade is vital to our business, our employees and our communities,” said Tom Linebarger, President and Chief Operating Officer of Cummins Inc. “We exported nearly $250 million in aftertreatment products from our operations in Wisconsin in 2010 and these free trade agreements will expand our opportunities in Panama, Colombia and Korea. During the past year, we have added more than 1,800 jobs in the U.S., demonstrating that an American company can add jobs at home while competing globally.”“We at the Wisconsin Farm Bureau Federation are extremely pleased with Congressman Kind for voting to pass the three Free Trade Agreements,” said Bill Bruins, President of the Wisconsin Farm Bureau. “As a Wisconsin dairy farmer and President of the Wisconsin Farm Bureau Federation, farmers and Wisconsin’s economy will directly benefit from these agreements through job creation and increased demand for Wisconsin products. The opportunity for new and expanded market share is vital for Wisconsin’s agricultural economy to continue growing. ”"Free and open international trade is critical to our nation's economy,” said Edgar Huber, President of Lands’ End. “The trade agreements with Korea, Colombia and Panama are important steps that will help create and sustain jobs in the United States and we applaud Congressman Kind for his support of these agreements and for his leadership on trade issues."Additional Information: U.S. Department of Commerce International Trade Administration, August 2011, 2008 data.Exports of manufactured goods support an estimated 198,000 jobs in Wisconsin.One-fifth (20.2 percent) of all manufacturing workers in Wisconsin depend on exports for their jobs.A total of 6,808 companies exported goods from Wisconsin locations in 2008.5,975 of Wisconsin exporting firms were small medium-sized exporting companies with fewer than 500 employees.Wisconsin’s agricultural exports to all countries, estimated at $2.4 billion in 2010, supported about 17,000 jobs, both on and off the farm. (Wisconsin International Trade Team, March 2011) (18,500 jobs according to USDA)
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Tuesday, October 4 at 6:45 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on current legislation, including the economy and jobs as well as the deficit, among other topics. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Tuesday (approximately 6:45 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) (877) 229-8493 and using the code 13433.
09.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, senior member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, has introduced the Rural Microbusiness Investment Credit Act of 2011 (H.R. 2858) to help generate investment in both start-up and expanding rural microbusinesses. The President’s recently unveiled American Jobs Act includes similar support for small businesses, including new tax cuts to businesses to support hiring and investment as well as helping business owners and entrepreneurs access capital and grow. Rep. Kind introduced the bill with his colleague, Wally Herger (R-CA).“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and critical to our way of life in rural Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “We must provide the support they need not only to keep their doors open but for new startups to get up and running. This bill will not only provide our small businesses much needed investments to hire and grow, bringing new jobs to our communities, but also help entrepreneurs get the capital they need to get off the ground and start contributing to local economies.”In rural areas across the country, microbusinesses are creating many jobs in this tough economic time. Unfortunately, other small businesses incentives and tax credits often leave out these smaller microbusinesses. The Rural Microbusiness Investment Credit Act is the first tax credit specifically for microbusinesses. The bill amends the tax code to provide a 35 percent federal tax credit (up to $10,000) to entrepreneurs, including family farmers, who invest in their businesses and is targeted to entrepreneurs operating in economically distressed rural areas. Since many small rural businesses often have a hard time accessing credit, the act is geared toward those with five or fewer employees, annual gross revenues that do not exceed $1 million, and that are in towns will high unemployment levels and populations of 50,000 or less. Under the bill, microbusiness owners are able to carry back the credit for five years and use it to offset taxes in previous years. This is critical for startup and current businesses that need help making critical investments during this tough economic time. “Policies such as those proposed by [this] legislation that support rural entrepreneurship can be expected to increase the economic impact of small enterprises in rural communities,” said Bob Stallman, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation. “We commend [Rep. Kind and Rep. Herger] for recognizing the importance of rural economic development and for introducing this legislation to help jump start rural America.”
09.09.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement following the President’s joint address to Congress.“There is no question that we must come together do everything that we can to create the good paying jobs America needs right now and get our economy moving again. We cannot afford to play partisan games while families across Wisconsin struggle to make ends meet.“Our struggling economy is the biggest contributor to rising budget deficits. It is important that we create an environment for job growth by making smart investments that will help our economy grow and compete. The President’s plan includes some good ideas to get us moving in the right direction. We need to update our nation’s aging infrastructure, focus on supporting job training, education and innovation, invest in our manufacturing sector, and provide tax relief to small businesses to help them grow and hire again - future generations and our economic competitiveness depend on it.”
08.18.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Dr. Don Berwick, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) (the top government official overseeing the Medicare and Medicaid programs) today visited La Crosse and met with about 125 health care providers from Gundersen Lutheran Health System and Mayo Clinic Health System to discuss health care reform, Medicare and Medicaid benefits, and the local models of care delivering some of the nation’s lowest cost yet highest quality medical outcomes.“Our hospitals and clinics have long been providing the kind of high quality low cost care that the rest of the nation should be looking to as a model,” said Rep. Kind. “Updating our delivery systems nationwide, to produce care focused on outcomes instead of volume, is the only way to get our health care costs under control in the long-run. I am pleased that Dr. Berwick was able to visit these high performing facilities and meet with the committed providers that consistently deliver some of the best, most coordinated care in the country.”“You have a diamond mine here in the Midwest,” said Dr. Berwick. “People can learn a lot from Wisconsin.”Kind and Berwick sat down with hospital administrators and about 125 doctors, nurses and other providers from Gundersen Lutheran Health System and Mayo Clinic Health System at the Mayo facility in La Crosse. The various networks of clinics and hospitals in western Wisconsin are known for consistently providing affordable and efficient high quality care. During health care reform, these health care systems were often looked to as a blueprint for a national model of care to bring about similar results to patients nationwide.“As the largest private employer in Western Wisconsin serving 22 communities, we value any opportunity to share our ideas on high value care with Dr. Berwick,” said Dr. Robert Nesse, CEO of all Mayo Clinic Health System. “Mayo Clinic continues to collaborate with Dartmouth and others on high value care and will share that expertise with Dr. Berwick, Congressman Kind, and lawmakers in hopes of improving patient care outcomes and reducing the overall cost of care throughout the nation.”“It is always a great opportunity to meet with the head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services,” said Sigurd B. Gundersen III, MD, Medical Vice President of Gundersen Lutheran Health System. “La Crosse County has consistently been cited as one of the most efficient Medicare service areas in the country. Today we had the opportunity to show Dr. Berwick how we have been able to be innovative with great patient outcomes.”“We would like to thank Dr. Berwick and Congressman Kind for coming to the La Crosse area to listen to our concerns and discuss opportunities in healthcare policy,” said Dr. Tim Johnson, CEO of Mayo Clinic Health System, La Crosse. “As part of our discussions, we asked for help in keeping blunt funding cuts and burdensome regulations from undermining our efforts to transform healthcare. We feel further cuts that are not linked to quality and incentivizing value will short-circuit our goals.”Rep. Kind and Dr. Berwick also met with hospital administrators and more than 200 health care providers from Marshfield Clinic, Mayo Clinic Health System, and Sacred Heart Hospital at the Mayo facility in Eau Claire as well held a rural roundtable in Black River Falls with about 30 rural health care providers and administrators from throughout western Wisconsin.
08.18.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Dr. Don Berwick, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) (the top government official overseeing the Medicare and Medicaid programs) today held a rural health care roundtable with nearly 30 providers and administrators from health care facilities across western Wisconsin to discuss health care reform, Medicare and Medicaid benefits, and access to doctors, hospitals, and quality health care in rural communities.“Our rural health care providers in western Wisconsin have been looked to as leaders in providing high quality, affordable care to our rural communities,” said Rep. Kind. I am pleased that Dr. Berwick was able to meet with the committed providers that consistently deliver some of the best, most accessible rural health care in the country.”Kind and Berwick sat down with nearly 30 doctors, nurses and other providers from rural hospitals and clinics across western Wisconsin. The roundtable discussed a variety of issues including access to primary care and emergency rooms, rural hospitals, implementation of health care reform, payment innovations, grants and funding as well as concerns regarding pharmaceutical prices. The various networks of clinics and hospitals in the area are known for consistently providing accessible and affordable care to rural communities. Rep. Kind has long fought to ensure that rural communities in not just Wisconsin but across the country have the same access to doctors, hospitals and other health care providers as larger metropolitan regions.“Today’s roundtable was enlightening and educational,” said Nicole Clapp, CEO of Grant Regional Health Center in Lancaster. “We discussed a variety of topics. It was a great opportunity to have a one on one dialog with Dr. Berwick and Rep. Kind and to know that the rural health care community and the challenges we face are being recognized and addressed.”“I’m pleased to have had the opportunity to discuss rural health care issues with Rep. Kind and Dr. Berwick,” said Philip Stuart, CEO of Tomah Memorial Hospital. “In the rural areas, we have a unique set of challenges and it’s important for the federal government to understand them and know how to deal with them in terms of Medicare and Medicaid. From our discussion today, it is clear that Dr. Berwick has a good understanding of these issues. It was invaluable to have an audience with him today.”“It’s clear that both Dr. Berwick and Rep. Kind recognize that health care providers in rural Wisconsin are trying to do the right thing – constantly innovate to deliver the highest quality, affordable, and efficient care and do it without abuse or fraud,” said Dr. Aaron Dunn, family physician with Upland Hills Health in Dodgeville. “I was particularly impressed with Dr. Berwick’s understanding of the value of primary care and the importance and sanctity of the doctor patient relationship.”“I was pleased to hear from Dr. Berwick today that he and CMS are looking to us, as rural providers, to propose solutions to change and improve our health care system,” said Kimberly Hawthorne, Administrator of Mayo Clinic Health System Franciscan Health Care in Sparta and Tomah. “We know that primary care providers drive health care but we need to make it easier for them to focus on the patient. Simplifying the processes, rules and regulations regarding Medicare, Medicaid and the TRICARE system will eliminate waste in the system and allow our practitioners to focus on the needs of the patients without having to jump through so many hoops.”Rep. Kind and Dr. Berwick also met with hospital administrators and more than 200 health care providers from Marshfield Clinic, Mayo Clinic Health System, and Sacred Heart Hospital at the Mayo facility in Eau Claire as well an additional 100 administrators and providers from Gundersen Lutheran Health Systems and Mayo Clinic Health System in La Crosse.
08.18.2011	U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Dr. Don Berwick, administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) (the top government official overseeing the Medicare and Medicaid programs) today visited Eau Claire hospitals and met with more than 200 health care providers from Marshfield Clinic, Mayo Clinic Health System, and Sacred Heart Hospital to discuss health care reform, Medicare and Medicaid benefits, and to further examine the local models of care delivering some of the nation’s lowest cost yet highest quality medical outcomes.“Our hospitals and clinics have long been providing the kind of high quality low cost care that the rest of the nation should be looking to as a model,” said Rep. Kind. “Updating our delivery systems nationwide, to produce care focused on outcomes instead of volume, is the only way to get our health care costs under control in the long-run. I am pleased that Dr. Berwick was able to tour and visit these high performing facilities and meet with the committed providers that consistently deliver some of the best, most coordinated care in the country.”“You have a diamond mine here in the Midwest,” said Dr. Berwick. “People can learn a lot from Wisconsin.”Kind and Berwick sat down with hospital administrators and more than 200 doctors, nurses and other providers from Marshfield Clinic, Mayo Clinic Health System, and Sacred Heart Hospital today at the Mayo facility. The forum covered topics ranging from access to primary care to health care reform implementation to chemotherapy drug shortages.The various networks of clinics and hospitals in west-central Wisconsin are known for consistently providing affordable and efficient high quality care. During health care reform, these health care systems were often looked to as a blueprint for a national model of care to bring about similar results to patients nationwide. Kind and Berwick also toured the special procedures lab and the cardiology unit at Sacred Heart Hospital.“It’s an ongoing improvement process,” said Dr. Randall Linton, president and CEO of Mayo Clinic Health System in Eau Claire. “We have a 20-year history of building an integrated system that delivers high value, coordinated care to our patients. We have made great advances, but there is still much to be done.”“Dr. Berwick has laid out a vision for reforming America’s health care system through the simultaneous pursuit of three aims: improving the experience of care, improving the health of populations, and reducing the costs of health care,” said Faye Deich, Chief Operating Officer of Sacred Heart Hospital. “Western Wisconsin is leading the nation in pursuing these aims and we are proud to be innovators in serving patients better. This special region of Wisconsin collaborates to offer high quality, low cost access to health care that serves as a national model.”“We truly appreciate the leadership of Dr. Berwick and Rep. Kind in creating an atmosphere conducive to the type of innovative solutions that allowed us to be so successful in the recently concluded CMS demonstration project,” said Dr. Karl Ulrich, President and CEO of Marshfield Clinic. “While we’ve clearly shown that it is possible to cut costs while improving the quality of care, we can also testify to the fact that it takes hard work and continuous dedication by everyone at an organization to make it happen.”Rep. Kind and Dr. Berwick also met with hospital administrators and nearly 100 health care providers from Gundersen Lutheran and Mayo Clinic Health System in La Crosse today as well held a rural roundtable in Black River Falls with about 30 rural health care providers and administrators from throughout western Wisconsin.
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement after supporting the Budget Control Act Agreement. “I supported this bill because the alternative is unacceptable. This bill is not perfect but it is compromise – and compromise is what we need to avoid defaulting on our obligations and risking economic disaster. It’s completely senseless that a handful of Tea Party members were able to hold our economy hostage and risk default for the first time in our history just to enact their agenda. This should not be about party politics or radical agendas. We must find the common ground that I know exists to do the responsible thing for our country – grow our economy and get our deficits under control.“Creating all this uncertainty and instability for families and businesses was nonsensical. We have to get our budgets under control but let’s do it the smart and balanced way. Let’s find savings in the places where we overspend. We can get better value for the dollars we are spending in health care by paying for the value and no longer the volume of care that’s given. We can eliminate weapons programs that the Pentagon doesn’t even request and end taxpayer subsidies made to large agribusiness with addresses in New York, Chicago, and San Francisco. But we also have to make the right investments in our country - including in education, infrastructure, workforce development and scientific research. These investments are critical to ensuring our continued economic growth and making sure American remains the most innovative, competitive country in the world.”
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement regarding the passage of Speaker Boehner’s Short Term Default Act. “Instead of wasting time on a bill the Senate won’t pass and the President won’t sign, we should be working on a bipartisan compromise to avoid defaulting on our obligations.“This unbalanced, short-term bill fails to address our long-term structural deficits and continues to put our economy in danger. Kicking the can six months down the road shakes consumer and investor confidence and puts us at risk of default again in February. Instead we should be concentrating on strengthening the economy and creating the good paying jobs we need right now.“The bill is a drastic, partisan approach that balances the budget on the backs of hardworking Americans and seniors while protecting special interest tax breaks for the wealthy and big oil. It is clear that my colleagues would rather risk economic catastrophe than work across the aisle to find a compromise that puts us on a sound fiscal path.”
07.28.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today called for stopping member pay during a default. “If Congress cannot compromise on a bipartisan, long-term solution to our budget deficits and we default on our obligations, the pay of Senators and Representatives should be last on the list of bills to be paid. There is no reason Members of Congress should be paid if veterans, seniors and the disabled aren’t receiving their benefits. Hopefully this will be the motivation my colleagues need to get our country on a sound fiscal path.”Currently, the Constitution protects Member pay. That’s why legislation is necessary. The Stop Pay for Members Act stops Members of Congress from getting paid if America defaults. According to a Bipartisan Policy Center analysis, if America defaults, the Treasury Department would have to choose which of the approximately $80 million in payments need to be made with the limited revenue available. The Stop Pay for Members Act would place Members of the House and Senate dead last on the list, virtually ensuring that Members would not get paid should a default occur.
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against the FAA Reauthorization bill because it jeopardizes funding for rural communities through cuts to the Essential Air Service (EAS) Program and fails to support our men and women in uniform during travel to and from war zones.“This bill makes significant cuts to a program many of our rural community airports, including the Chippewa Valley Regional Airport; rely on for key funding,” said Rep. Kind. “It’s important funding like this that supports local jobs and provides transportation and shipping services to small businesses in rural communities.”EAS funding is critical for small and medium sized communities across the country. Not only do 140 smaller regional airports depend on the funding to maintain scheduled air service, but rural communities have the resources to create jobs and businesses large and small benefit from increased access to the global economy. Cuts to EAS will immediately affect over a dozen airports across the country. Chippewa Valley Regional Airport will not be directly affected by these cuts but funding for the airport could be in jeopardy if any further cuts are made. In fact, Wisconsin has delayed accepting construction bids until officials know how much federal funding will be available. Unless the FAA receives a longer extension, projects in Wisconsin could be delayed into next year.“On top of cutting this critical funding, when my Republican colleagues had the opportunity to amend this bill to prohibit airlines from charging our hardworking soldiers excessive baggage fees, they shot it down. When traveling to and from the front lines, our airlines should be hugging our heroes not hugging their wallets.”
07.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against another GOP effort to distract Congress from working toward bipartisan compromise and realistically addressing our growing budget deficits.“Instead of wasting time on a bill that only plays to their base, my Republican colleagues need to stop playing games and do the right thing,” said Rep. Kind. “Amending the Constitution is not required to get our fiscal house in order. It’s time to take a realistic approach when our country is in jeopardy of defaulting on its obligations.”The “Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011” (H.R. 2560) is an attempt to enact the extreme Republican budget resolution passed this spring, which puts an end the Medicare guarantee while continuing to protect tax breaks for powerful special interests and the wealthy. More immediately, H.R. 2560 creates additional obstacles, mandating that the House and the Senate first pass a Constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget, before voting to prevent the government from defaulting on its obligations by the August 2 deadline. It also increases the difficulty to raise revenue, requiring a supermajority to close tax loopholes, once again putting the interests of big oil and Wall Street before the American people.“We need a bipartisan approach to balancing the budget and we need a long-term solution to our structural budget deficits. To paraphrase Winston Churchill, America will make the right decision but only after all other options are first exhausted. There are a lot of options out there but the right thing to do is to close the tax loopholes that reward companies for sending jobs overseas and do everything we can to bring down rising health care costs to protect Medicare and Medicaid. I’m supportive of the Gang of Six talks in the Senate, which are putting forth a more balanced approach by advocating spending cuts and revenue – ultimately that’s where compromise needs to be made and that’s where the right decision lies.”
06.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against major cuts in conservation funding, nutrition programs, and services to assist women and children by refusing to support the Agriculture Appropriations bill of 2012.“Instead of making smart cuts to get our spending under control and focusing on creating jobs and supporting our economy, this bill makes devastating cuts on the backs of women, infants, and children and eliminates funding critical to our family farmers,” said Rep. Kind. “That’s why I offered and supported commonsense amendments to reduce wasteful government spending without jeopardizing important nutrition and conservation programs.”Rep. Kind’s amendment to prohibit the use of taxpayer subsidies to the Brazilian Cotton Institute, a cost savings of $147 million a year, passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support.“I’m pleased that a bipartisan group of Members agreed with me that supporting Brazil’s cotton industry with taxpayer dollars is wasteful and unnecessary. But the bill as a whole still irresponsibly overlooks other commonsense cuts such as the billions of dollars in outdated farm subsidies going to very few large agribusinesses. We cannot afford to continue spending carelessly and cutting recklessly, especially in this tough economy.”In addition, Rep. Kind supported additional amendments to cut wasteful government spending including:Prohibiting the payment of farm subsidies to a person or entity if their average adjusted gross income exceeds $250,000.Prohibiting funds from being used to provide benefits to farmers in excess of $125,000 per crop year.The bill cuts WIC aid for pregnant women, infants and children by $650 million - forcing the program to turn away up to 350,000 low-income women and young children next year. This but breaks a 15-year commitment by past Administrations and Congresses to provide enough WIC funding to serve all eligible women, infants, and children who apply. It also irresponsibly cuts $892 million from voluntary land and water conservation programs that not only protect water supplies and wildlife habit but that reward our farmers for being good stewards of the land. Three out of every four farmers applying for conservation funding assistance are currently turned away because of the inadequacy of funds; this bill only makes it more difficult for our family famers to take advantage of these vital programs.
06.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement regarding the Wisconsin State Legislature’s debate today of provisions included in the budget that would force state universities, libraries, and public schools to return $37 million in federal grants for broadband internet. “Wisconsin currently ranks 43rd worst in the country for broadband access. That’s unacceptable. Our state was given $37 million – with no strings attached - to connect our communities and expand broadband reach and now that access is in jeopardy. How do we expect our students, our businesses, and our state to continue to innovate, create, and succeed in a 21st century economy if we deny them the resources to do so? This money is vital to continued cutting-edge global research going on in Wisconsin and is expected to create nearly 500 jobs. We cannot afford to play political games and simply return money that will improve the economy, education system, and quality of life for our citizens.“It is critical that our universities, public schools, and libraries have affordable, accessible high-speed internet. It is essential to not only job creation, but our economic development and future success as a state. “I encourage the Joint Finance Committee to move ahead with a compromise on the grant-funded broadband. The state’s economy cannot move forward without increasing access to high-speed internet.”
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement following the Department of Labor’s report that the economy added 54,000 jobs in May and unemployment rose to 9.1 percent. “Though May marks the 15th consecutive month of private sector job growth, with 83,000 private sector jobs added, the numbers are disappointing. It is obvious that even though our economy is recovering, it’s still slow moving. There is a lot more that needs to be done.“Yes, we must cut spending and ensure our long-term fiscal health, but gridlock over spending cuts does not create jobs. We need bipartisan compromise that focuses on fiscal responsibility while maintaining investments in our communities that continue to create jobs and grow the economy.“Creating jobs and getting Wisconsinites back to work is my number one priority. To do that, our focus should be on investments in innovation and technology and growing our manufacturing sector. We must make significant investments in science, education, research and innovation to create the jobs of the future. And we must focus on America’s ability to build, construct and grow manufacturing in Wisconsin and across the country to remain globally competitive. These efforts can and will spur job growth and ensure our nation can compete and be a leader in a global economy.”
05.31.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against increasing the debt ceiling. He made the following statement.“This isn’t a serious attempt to address our long-term deficits. It’s merely political gamesmanship. My Republican colleagues need to be careful not to play with fire when it comes to our economy and job creation.“When my colleagues are serious about addressing the debt, they should focus on the fastest growing area of federal spending – health care – as I have. We must continue reforming the way we pay for health care in this country, so that our system places a greater emphasis on the quality of care delivered versus the quantity. And instead of dismantling Medicare and burdening our seniors with additional costs, there is no question that we must preserve and protect this program as well as Social Security for our seniors and future generations.”
05.27.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today commended Senators Kohl and Johnson of Wisconsin and Senators Klobuchar and Franken of Minnesota, for their progress on legislation to authorize the St. Croix River Crossing Project.“It is critical that we address the transportation needs in the area and continue working toward the construction of the St. Croix River Crossing Project, said Rep. Kind. “I’m pleased to see the Senate is moving this process forward. Their recently introduced bill takes into consideration plans to protect the scenic and recreational value of the St. Croix Riverway, language which I would like to incorporate into a similar bill I cosponsored earlier this year in the House of Representatives. I will continue to work with federal, state and local officials and lead the effort to get this bridge built.”
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement in response to the news of Senator Herb Kohl’s retirement.“Senator Kohl is the epitome of public service. The State of Wisconsin and the entire nation are at a great loss today with the news of his retirement. Senator Kohl has always put the interests of Wisconsin families, businesses, and farmers first. His dedication to providing access to affordable health care, especially for our seniors, is something our state and our country will value indefinitely. Senator Kohl has stood up for what is fair and right in politics. He was a good friend that I enjoyed working with and he will be greatly missed.”
05.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today issued the following statement in response to the Republican plan to end this year’s federal guaranteed extended unemployment benefits under H.R. 1745.“Today, the Republicans of the House Ways & Means Committee voted to proceed with legislation that would end the guarantee of federal unemployment insurance for 4 million Americans – almost 71,000 workers in Wisconsin alone. This is a bailout to the states by allowing them to eliminate unemployment benefits, for those in need, in order to pay off state debts or cut unemployment insurance taxes on businesses.“This week, not only are Republicans terminating a lifeline for the most vulnerable – the unemployed – but at the same time they will not consider eliminating wasteful special interest giveaways to Big Oil.“In this tough economy we cannot just cut this necessary assistance for the unemployed and their families. These benefits are critical as they look for work in this difficult, but slowly improving, economy.”
05.03.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today issued the following statement in response to the Republican effort to defund state health insurance exchanges under H.R. 1213.“First Republicans put forth a bill to end Medicare as we know it for our seniors. Now they are voting to deny access to health care for small businesses, family farmers and the uninsured. Instead of working to create jobs and support economic growth, they are increasing health care costs and burdening our hardworking families.“These health exchanges are critical to providing affordable, dependable coverage to millions of people. Based on legislation I authored, called the SHOP Act, these state-based exchanges serve as a competitive marketplace for people and businesses to shop for what best fits their needs. Denying access to these exchanges means less choice and higher costs.“In a time when our small businesses and family farmers need our support, it is crucial that instead of denying access to health care coverage, we provide the resources they need to grow and create jobs in this tough economy.”
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement in response to the death of Osama Bin Laden.“The world is a better place today without Osama Bin Laden.“My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families of the attacks of September 11th. Hopefully with his death they and our nation will feel a small amount of closure in regards to the terrorist attacks upon us.“Also, congratulations and thank you to the military members and intelligence personnel who were involved in this important operation.“Hopefully this sends a signal to the other perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks that there is no place too remote or no cave too dark to find them and bring them to justice.”
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against the economically irresponsible Republican budget that not only privatizes Medicare but also provides tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans.“It is critical that we agree on a budget that puts our country on a sound fiscal path but I refuse to do that on the backs of seniors and disadvantaged Americans,” said Rep. Kind. “The Republican budget ends Medicare as we know it – forcing seniors into private health care plans and doubling their out of pocket expenses – all while giving tax breaks to wealthy Wall Street bankers and large subsidies to Big Oil. This is not responsible to our seniors and not the way to address our budget challenges.”The Republican budget proposal would do away with traditional Medicare for everyone under age 55 and replace it with a voucher program that would force seniors to find health care for themselves and increase their health care expenses. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) states that the GOP plan would cause seniors to “bear a much larger share of their health care costs than they would under the traditional program”. CBO also found that the GOP plan would more than double the typical senior’s out-of-pocket health care spending in 2022, compared to what their costs would be under traditional Medicare – increasing their out-of-pocket costs by more than $6,000.“To reduce health care costs, we need to reform our health care system to pay for the value of care given and not the volume of care,” said Kind. “I refuse to ask 33 seniors in western Wisconsin to pay an additional $6,000 a year for health care so President Obama can receive a $200,000 tax break. That’s wrong and there are better ways to reduce our nation’s debt.”The budget also slashes support of seniors in nursing homes and makes deep cuts in Medicaid while making tax cuts for the wealthiest permanent – adding $1 trillion to the deficit.
04.12.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and U.S. Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) today introduced the S Corporation Modernization Act (H.R. 1478), a tax relief proposal that would make it easier for S corporations to access capital, compete, and hire new workers by modernizing outdated rules that currently stifle their growth. Among many findings, an independent study released this morning revealed how S corporations employ one out of four private sector workers (31 million) in the United States.“This bill is a commonsense update to the tax code that will give S corporations the ability to grow and prosper especially in this tough economic environment,” Rep. Kind said. “It is critical that we ease the tax burden on our small and family owned businesses who are driving our economic growth. Under this legislation, S corporations will be better able to access credit, invest in their business, and create the good paying jobs that we need."“S corporations and other similar businesses are responsible for more than half of the jobs in Washington State and across America,” Rep. Reichert said. “As our economy struggles to get back on sound footing, I’m proud that this bipartisan legislation will help these proven job creators access the capital needed to grow, compete, and help get more and more Americans back to work. I remain committed to supporting these bedrocks of our economy by advocating for pro-growth tax policies from my position on the Ways and Means Committee.”“Tax reform should seek to make the entire U.S. economy more competitive, not just a subset of large corporations,” stated S Corporation Association Executive Director Brian Reardon. “If you’re going to tackle tax reform, it must include both the corporate and individual tax codes in order to assist all employers. In the face of proposals that would make the majority of America’s employers less competitive, the Reichert-Kind legislation presents a realistic set of reforms that would improve the ability of 4.5 million S corporations to access much-needed capital and increase their hiring capabilities.”Specifically, H.R. 1478 would make needed changes to keep S corporations competitive and help ensure the continued success of America’s predominant private business model by: * Increasing the ability of S corporations to access much-needed capital; * Modernizing the rules that apply to firms that have selected S corporation status; and * Enabling IRAs to hold stock in S corporations.These reforms would improve the ability of S corporations to respond to the demands of the current business environment and remove impediments that prevent them from competing on a level playing field here in the United States.
04.08.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement today in anticipation of a possible government shutdown at midnight tonight.“We are still working hard to avert a government shutdown. It is going to require compromise from both parties to make the tough decisions in order to keep our government from shutting down all together at midnight tonight. The American people want us to create jobs and strengthen the middle class, not shut down the government and jeopardize our economic recovery. “I am committed to responsibly reducing the deficit and keeping the government open, but too many of my colleagues are pushing an ideological social agenda that is threatening a government shutdown. There is no question that we need a serious deficit reduction proposal to move our country forward, but a divisive Republican agenda is not going to do that. We are working hard to put forth a budget to avoid a shutdown, but a compromise may not be on the horizon this evening.“If there is a government shutdown, my office will remain open for business. The staff in my office is essential to serving the people of western Wisconsin. My staff will continue to work, without pay, to fulfill the needs of the people back home. Government shutdown or not, I will continue to remain accessible and serve the people I represent responsibly.“A government shutdown is not in the best interest of our country, our families, or our fragile economy that is beginning to recover. Western Wisconsin small businesses and family farmers should not have to suffer during a shutdown as Small Business Administration (SBA) and Farm Services Agency (FSA) loans and applications are delayed.“In the event of a shutdown, I anticipate not accepting my Congressional pay for that time period, just as I have rejected my Cost-of-Living Adjustment in years past. With so much at stake, Congress needs to get back to work to create good paying jobs and responsibly reduce the deficit.”
04.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind announced today that he will be hosting a series of small business panels in western Wisconsin during the month of April.Each of the panels will feature experts to discuss resources available to small businesses. Panelists will guide business owners through accessing aid and taking advantage of such resources including tax credits, business initiatives, lending, procurement and more. Each event will include a panel discussion, Q&A with panelists, and an opportunity for business owners to work individually with panelist on questions and concerns. The first of three panels will focus more on the needs of rural small businesses, including family farms, and will include panelists representing both the Farm Service Association and U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development Agency.Monday, April 18, 2011 from 10:30-noonSouthwest Wisconsin Technical CollegeLenz Center, Room 3651800 Bronson BlvdFennimore, WIFeatured guests include:Kim Kindschi, Small Business Development Center and Executive Director of Entrepreneurship and Economic Development at UW Extension will discuss grant opportunities available to small businesses and ways UW Extension can advocate for small businesses in securing funding, patents, starting up a business, and utilizing the vast resources in the UW System. Ray Ellenberger from USDA’s Wisconsin Farm Service Agency will discuss lending opportunities for small businesses and family farmers who need financial assistance.Joe Wolfe & Tom Wolfe from Wisconsin Business Development Finance Corporation will discuss micro-lending and the range of services available to businesses.Jeff Hudson from USDA Rural Development Agency will detail programs and services available to rural businesses and communities.Attendees also include representatives from the Community Bankers and the Wisconsin Credit Union League to answer questions regarding lending and the credit market. The remaining panels focus on federal resources available to small businesses and will discuss ways for small business owners to take advantage of such opportunities.Tuesday, April 19, 2011 from 9-10:30amLa Crosse Public Library800 Main StreetLa Crosse, WITuesday, April 26, 2011 from 10:30-noonUW-River Falls Hudson Center2501 Hanley Road, 2nd FloorHudson, WIFeatured guests include:Sunny Kessel, U.S. Export Assistance Office, U.S. Department of Commerce will share ways the USEAC can help businesses begin to export – by helping identify markets, developing effective market-entry strategies, facilitating implementation of strategies, and providing assistance in obtaining trade finance.Kim Kindschi, Small Business Development Center and Executive Director of Entrepreneurship and Economic Development at UW Extension will discuss grant opportunities available to small businesses and ways UW Extension can advocate for small businesses in securing funding, patents, starting up a business, and utilizing the vast resources in the UW System. Anne Hlavacka, Small Business Development Center at UWL will talk about procurement opportunities and the procurement process.Steve DeWald, Director of UWRF Small Business Development Center will talk about entrepreneurship and how to put together a successful business plan.Karen Brehmer, Alan Gregerson and Ann Makres, IRS Regional Stakeholder Liaisons will speak to the tax benefits that benefit small businesses.A Wisconsin Small Business Administration representative has been invited to detail lending to small and start up businesses.Attendees also include representatives from the Community Bankers and the Wisconsin Credit Union League to answer questions regarding lending and the credit market. In addition, Barbara Eckblad, Director of Lending for the Wisconsin Women's Business Initiative Corporation will be in attendance.
04.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind is standing up to Republicans and their attempt to pass their proposed federal budget through what they are calling the “deem and pass” method but what is actually an unconstitutional attempt to make their budget law. Republicans want to “deem” their spending plan the law of the land without a vote by the U.S. Senate or the signature of the President, contrary to Article I, Section 7 of the U.S. Constitution.“You may think this is an April Fools’ joke but it’s not,” said Rep. Kind. “Republicans in the House of Representatives actually want to abolish the U.S. Senate and the Presidency. After requiring us to read the United States Constitution on the House floor just 13 weeks ago, my Republican colleagues are now tearing up the Constitution and dictating that what they alone pass becomes law without any discussion.” “There are a lot of things that a lot of us would like to just deem in our lives,” said Kind. “Some of us might like to deem to lose 10 pounds overnight, I’d like to deem spring to arrive earlier in Wisconsin or deem the NFL negotiations to conclude so the Packers can play this fall. But the truth is, we can’t just deem things into existence. Instead our democracy requires and people expect their Representatives to listen to each other and work hard to find common ground to get our economy growing, create good paying jobs, and get our budget deficits under control.”
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today expressed his concerns regarding U.S. military involvement in Libya during a briefing with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Kind made the following statement after his questioning of Clinton and Gates.“I’m pleased I was given the opportunity to question Secretary Clinton and Secretary Gates on our intervention in Libya but I am not pleased with their response. Just because we have international and NATO support doesn’t mean we can afford to set a precedent to intervene in a country’s civil war. It could be Yemen, Syria, or even Iran next.“I’m concerned that we are already stretching our military too far with engagements in Iraq and Afghanistan. I also have reservations about our ability to pay for this additional military intervention. We’ve already spent $550 million on this mission so far and we’ve only been involved for less than two weeks. This is not going to help us reduce expenditures and get our budgets under control at a time when it’s critical.“Lastly, there’s no clear objective, I don’t see the national security threat to our country that would cause us to get involved, and I fear that this could end up as a prolonged stalemate for our forces.”
03.24.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, announced today that together with the Concord Coalition, a non-partisan, grassroots organization dedicated to educating the public about the federal budget deficits and how to build a sound foundation for economic growth, he will hold two interactive deficit reduction workshops on April 2, 2011.“Rising deficits are a serious concern,” said Rep. Kind. “There is no doubt that we have to take a closer look at spending and get our fiscal house in order. But this is no easy task. I hope this exercise will help participants understand the complexity of the process and realize how important it is to come together to make these tough decisions.”The workshops provide an opportunity for attendees to participate in an interactive exercise in which they will learn what is involved in reducing the deficit. Working in small groups (i.e., “budget committees), and with guidance from the Concord Coalition, participants will review federal spending priorities, tax policy, and entitlement reform, and then have to make many of the policy decisions facing lawmakers today. This exercise allows participants to gain firsthand experience addressing the difficult challenges in the budget.The event is free and open to the public. All ages are encouraged to attend. Deficit Reduction WorkshopsLa CrosseSaturday, April 2, 2011 – 10:00-11:30amUW-La CrosseCartwright Center, Room #2121741 State StreetEau ClaireSaturday, April 2, 2011 – 1:30-3:00pmChippewa Valley Technical CollegeManufacturing Education Center, Main Commons2320 Alpine Road
03.23.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, in honor of the first anniversary today, commended the Affordable Care Act for increasing access to affordable, stable health coverage for Wisconsinites.“Health care reform was critical not only to ensure Americans have access to high quality care they can afford, but also to get our deficits under control,” said Rep. Kind. “Health care reform provides important consumer protections, tax credits for small businesses, stronger Medicare benefits all while responsibly reducing the deficit. Health care reform is good for Wisconsin.”Wisconsinites are already seeing the benefits of the Affordable Care Act, including:836,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Wisconsin can now receive free preventive services – like mammograms and colonoscopies – as well as a free annual wellness visit with their doctor.64,041 Wisconsin residents who hit the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole” received $250 tax-free rebates last year, and will receive a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs when they hit the donut hole this year.89,000 small businesses in Wisconsin can receive tax credits to help offset the costs of purchasing coverage for their employees and make premiums more affordable.310,000 children with a pre-existing condition in Wisconsin will be protected by health care reform – they can no longer be denied coverage.13,600 young adults in Wisconsin have access to insurance coverage through their parent’s plans as a result of the law.Health care reform also takes steps to change the way we pay for health care in this country – from a system that is based on volume to one that is based on the value of care provided. Western Wisconsin hospitals and clinics, providing high quality, low cost care, are already on this path and have served as a model for the rest of the country.“Reform transforms our health care system into one that delivers higher quality care at a lower cost, eliminates waste in the system and increases the quality of care for all Americans,” said Kind.
03.22.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus, was recently recognized as the 2011 YMCA of the USA Congressional Champion for his longstanding commitment to building strong and healthy kids, families, and communities. “I am proud to win this award and I will continue to advocate for legislation that provides healthy choices and ensures a higher quality of life,” said Rep. Kind. “I will not only continue my support of health and fitness initiatives but work to make sure that healthy lifestyle programs, such as those at the YMCA, are available for our communities for years to come.”Rep. Kind was selected as YMCA Congressional Champion for his introduction and support of both the FIT Kids Act, which places a renewed emphasis on physical education in schools, as well as his Healthy CHOICES Act, bipartisan legislation to comprehensively address obesity by increasing access to the tools and education to make healthy choices and improving access to and opportunity for physical activity for adults and children. In addition, Rep. Kind was also recognized for his support of the Pioneering Healthy Communities program through the YMCA of La Crosse.“A stronger, healthier and happier Coulee Region starts with activities that keep residents active and engaged,” said Bill Soper, Executive Director and CEO of the La Crosse Area Family YMCA. “We appreciate Congressman Kind’s support for our local work designed to improve the health and well-being of our community and his commitment to policies and practices that address the epidemic of physical inactivity and poor nutrition across the country. We know that by removing barriers to unhealthy lifestyles, we can reduce conditions such as obesity and diabetes that are plaguing our neighbors and driving up the cost of health care.”Today, the YMCA engages more than 10,000 neighborhoods across the U.S. As the nation’s leading nonprofit committed to helping people and communities to learn, grow and thrive. By nurturing the potential of every child and teen, improving the nation’s health and well-being, and supporting and serving our neighbors, the Y ensures that everyone has the opportunity to become healthier, more confident, connected and secure. The YMCA is a cause-driven organization that is for youth development, for healthy living and for social responsibility.
03.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – In recognition of Wisconsin Flood Safety Awareness week March 14-18, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind would like to encourage communities to be prepared for the increased risk of spring flooding.“Spring gives us the chance to thaw a little bit and get outside and enjoy the warmer weather,” said Rep. Kind. “But as the ground also thaws, there is an increased risk for flooding. I want to remind people of the dangers of flooding and encourage residents to be prepared.”Wisconsin has experienced eight federally declared flood disasters since 2001. For example, in June 2008, severe flooding throughout the state, including across western Wisconsin, led to disaster declarations in 30 counties with more than $93 million distributed in federal disaster aid. This flooding was the most costly natural disaster in recorded Wisconsin history. There is a real possibility of more flooding in 2011. Fast melting snow combined with severe storms and heavy rainfall has the potential to cause extensive flooding this spring, especially along the Mississippi River and the Black, St. Croix, Chippewa, Kickapoo, Trempealeau and Wisconsin River Basins.The best way to prepare is to:• Make a plan – Know how your family will meet up in a safe place in case of an emergency. • Get a kit – An emergency kit can sustain yourself and your family for up to three days. Remember to keep your important documents in a sealed, airtight container. • Know the risk – Find out if your home is at risk for flooding. You don't have to live near a river or stream to experience flooding. Also be aware of standing water on roads, especially at night. As little as six inches of water may cause you to lose control of your vehicle. More than half of all flood-related deaths result from vehicles being swept downstream. • Protect your property - Less than 1 percent of households in Wisconsin have flood insurance. Without flood insurance, whether you rent or own, you are responsible for the losses. Also, there is a 30-day waiting period before your policy goes into effect. Visit www.floodsmart.gov for more information. For more information on how to make a plan, get a kit, know the risk and buy flood insurance, visit https://readywisconsin.wi.gov. Also, contact your county emergency management offices for up to date information. Find a list here: https://emergencymanagement.wi.gov/.
03.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) today reintroduced the Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids Act (FIT Kids Act), a bill to combat childhood obesity by strengthening physical education programs in schools throughout the country. The FIT Kids Act, H.R. 1057, renews the emphasis on physical education in schools. The Act would work to ensure kids are active during the school day and are given opportunities that promote overall health and wellness. The legislation would engage parents and the public by requiring all school districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard. The Act would further ensure appropriate professional development for health and physical education teachers, fund research to examine the link between children’s health and their academic achievement, and recommend effective ways to combat childhood obesity and improve healthy living and physical activity.“This bill gets to the simple truth: in order to develop a healthy mind, you need a health body,” said U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Providing increased physical education in public schools will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life. I hope that Congress can consider the importance of physical education in our schools when they take a closer look at education reform later this year.”“To ensure that our kids will lead healthy and active lives, we need to help them develop good habits early on,” said Senator Tom Harkin, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions. “This bill would combat rising rates of childhood obesity, which have become a pressing public health crisis that we must address. Kids who get more exercise throughout the day are more fit, more focused in the classroom, and get better sleep – also a welcome benefit for their parents! This bill empowers schools, teachers and parents to help improve our kids’ health.”“With childhood obesity rates that have tripled over the last few decades, we must make every effort to help children reduce their risk for heart disease, stroke and other life-threatening illnesses,” said Nancy Brown, CEO of American Heart Association. “More than 80 percent of adults support daily physical education yet such programs have been on the decline in many school districts. The FIT Kids Act would help educate parents about the quality and quantity of physical education in their child’s school.”“America’s children receive too little opportunity to be physically active, and that is a major contributor to the nation’s obesity epidemic, said Penny Lee, Executive Director of the Campaign to End Obesity Action Fund. “Lack of physical activity for children has a negative effect on our military preparedness, their ability to learn and their overall wellness. Now is the time to drill down on solutions which is what this legislation provides. It allows for more information to parents, educators and communities so they recognize the gaps in activity and have the opportunity to address them ¬-- a major step in the right direction.”“The National Association for Sport and Physical Education commends Senator Harkin and Congressman Kind on introducing the FIT Kids Act which will strongly support our common goal of increasing the quality and quantity of physical education opportunities in the U.S.,” says NASPE President, Lynn Couturier of State University of New York at Cortland. “Physical education, an essential component of a quality, well-rounded education, not only teaches students how to achieve and maintain lifelong healthy habits but contributes to their academic success.”“We are proud to support Senator Harkin and Congressman Kind on their reintroduction of the Fit Kids Act,” said NFL Commissioner, Roger Goodell. “This legislation furthers our shared goal of eliminating childhood obesity and encouraging children to lead healthy lifestyles.”The FIT Kids Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: The American Diabetes Association, The American Heart Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education, Grocery Manufacturers Association, National Football League, Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, YMCA.Childhood Obesity in AmericaChildhood obesity in the United States has reached epidemic proportions. Recent studies indicate that 17 percent of 6 to 11 year olds and 17.6 percent of 12 to 19 year olds are considered obese. Furthermore, 33 percent of 6 to 11 year olds and 34 percent of 12 to 19 year olds are overweight; these rates have roughly doubled since 1980.Children and teens who are overweight are much more likely to develop cardiovascular disease, type II diabetes, asthma, sleep apnea, and various forms of cancer. This is a costly expense to our health care system; obesity related medical costs totaled $147 billion in 2008. Researchers suggest that the childhood obesity epidemic is largely due to a decline in regular physical activity and a diet high in unhealthy foods. A lack of regular physical activity not only hurts a child’s health, it can also affect his/her academic development, as research also shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers. Increasing physical activity is a critical component of any initiative to combat childhood obesity and promote the health of students. Unfortunately, many schools are being forced to cut back on PE programs because of lack of resources and competing academic demands and testing. Between 1991 and 2003, enrollment of high school students in daily PE classes fell from 41.6% to 28.4%.
03.01.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement regarding his co-sponsorship of a bill to move forward the construction of the St. Croix Bridge between Minnesota and Wisconsin.“It is critical that we move forward in the construction of the St. Croix River Crossing Project. For too long, lawsuits and other challenges have gotten in the way, only increasing the price tag for the American taxpayer as we work to overcome obstacle after obstacle. The current 80 year-old bridge is functionally deficient and poses a hazard to public safety. It also limits the ability of the growing region to attract jobs and tourism. Something must be done. “This bill takes us in the right direction and is the next step in the process of constructing the much-needed new bridge. I know that we can move forward with a bridge that will not only address our transportation needs but also maintains the scenic and recreational value of the St. Croix Riverway and upholds the integrity of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. I look forward to working with Governors Walker and Dayton to address the urgent need to improve our region’s infrastructure.”
02.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against the Republican spending proposal that fails to create jobs and threatens economic growth.“We absolutely need to control our deficits and get our country on a path to fiscal sustainability,” said Rep. Kind. “That is why I offered and supported amendments to reduce unnecessary government spending. But we cannot do so by cutting the investments our country needs right now to create good jobs and grow the economy.”Rep. Kind offered two of his own amendments to cut spending that were rejected by a majority of House Republicans. One to end two wasteful military programs that the U.S. Department of Defense wants eliminated for a total of $13 billion in savings and the other to end American taxpayer subsidies to Brazilian agribusiness for a savings of $147 million each year.“It’s unfortunate my Republican colleagues were unable to support logical steps that would have saved taxpayers over $13 billion,” said Rep. Kind. “At a time when middle class families are tightening their belts, these amendments would have moved Congress in the same direction.”In addition, Rep. Kind supported numerous amendments to reduce spending including:Terminating the alternate engine for the Joint Strike Fighter Plane to save $450 millionEliminating all funding for the Iraq Security Forces Fund (foreign police in Iraq) to save $1.5 billionCutting $415 million for the V-22 Osprey aircraft in the Pentagon’s budgetNot only does the Republican budget fail to take a commonsense approach to reducing spending, but according to a new analysis by the nonpartisan Economic Policy Institute, instead of creating jobs, the GOP bill will cost more than 800,000 private and public sector jobs. After 11 consecutive months of private sector job growth last year, Americans cannot afford new job losses. On top of that, the budget makes reckless cuts in education, innovation, infrastructure, public safety and hurts those who need help the most.“We must continue to lay a foundation for job growth – making smart investments to ensure America remains the most innovative, creative country in the world while also working to create jobs and control the deficit,” said Rep. Kind. “My Republican colleagues say they are serious about deficit reduction, but they don’t do anything to address the largest and fastest growing area of spending in our federal budget – health care. We must change the way we pay for health care to get costs under control. Fortunately, there are tools in place under health care reform that will put us on this path. We need to keep moving toward a health care system that provides better care at a better cost.”
02.17.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today sent Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker a letter asking him to withdraw his budget proposal to end collective bargaining for public employees.“Collective bargaining – the chance for employees to negotiate for fair wages with management – is key to our state’s success. It is a time-tested, reasonable process. And let’s be clear, public employees are not the reason state budgets are in trouble. We need to address the budget, but we can’t just fix it by cutting the salaries and robbing the retirement funds of our nurses, teachers, and public safety professionals.”Rep. Kind shared with Governor Walker his concerns, including the impact on public education, pending the budget proposal passes. He also urged Governor Walker to work with public employees to find a solution to the state’s budget shortfalls.“We’re all Wisconsinites and I know we can pull together to solve Wisconsin’s problems. That’s what we have always done best and that’s what our leaders must recognize. The only way we can move the state forward is by listening to each other and by working together. We must respect Wisconsin's workers and their contribution to the state and instead of blaming them, find real, practical solutions to our budget woes.”Click here to read the letter.
02.14.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today commended President Obama for presenting a budget to Congress that takes honest, pragmatic steps to ensure economic growth and competitiveness while at the same time, finding ways to reduce the deficit.“The President’s budget responsibly focuses on reducing our deficits while making room for the investments that will guarantee the success of our country. His proposal centers on what is most important right now – creating good paying jobs and ensuring America’s economic competitiveness and getting us on a path to fiscal sustainability. It’s a good start but more needs to be done.“To be serious about deficit reduction, we must continue to move forward on health care reform – the largest and fastest growing area of spending. We must change the way we pay for health care to get costs under control. Fortunately, by working with our health care providers in western Wisconsin, there are tools in place under health care reform that will put us on the right path. We need to keep moving toward a health care system that provides better care at a better cost. Studies show that one third of health care dollars, close to $800 billion each year, is spent on ineffective tests and procedures that do not help the patient. We should start addressing these unnecessary costs by changing Medicare’s volume-based payments to value-based payments, exactly what our providers in western Wisconsin have been advocating.“We must also continue to lay a foundation for growth – making smart investments that keep our economy growing and support economic competitiveness, to ensure America remains the most innovative, creative country in the world. Investments in education and innovation will not only create the jobs of the future but will ensure that every American is prepared with the skills they need to succeed and every business can compete in a 21st century economy. These investments will guarantee that we out-innovate, out-educate, and out-build our global competitors.
02.03.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, member of both the House Ways and Means Committee health subcommittee and the Rural Health Coalition, was recently recognized as Legislator of the Year by the National Rural Health Association for his support, leadership and outstanding commitment to rural health care issues. “We have some of the best rural health care providers in the country right in our own backyard,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud to have worked hard on their behalf during my time in office and honored to win this award. I will continue to advocate for legislation that gives rural hospitals and clinics the support they need and increases access to the care they provide. Ensuring access to health care providers is vital to the long-term sustainability of rural communities.”Rep. Kind’s district is home to 23 critical access hospitals. Rep. Kind was selected as Legislator of the Year as a direct result of his involvement in several key legislative issues pertinent to rural health care providers. Specifically, as part of recent historic health care reform, Rep. Kind helped secure health insurance exchanges and small business tax credits which were modeled after legislation he authored called the SHOP Act. The exchanges and tax credits will help small businesses compete for talented employees on an even footing with larger firms for the first time, benefitting rural America. With Rep. Kind’s leadership, health care reform also expanded provisions to help ensure rural doctors are paid fairly to cover operating expenses and are paid closer to the same amount as urban doctors. In addition, Rep. Kind also helped include in the bill an Institute of Medicine study that will result in fairer Medicare payments for many rural communities. Lastly, Rep. Kind helped insert important protections in the bill to maintain increased payments for rural labs, home health agencies, ambulances, rural outpatient hospitals and others rural providers.“Congressman Kind has been a staunch supporter of access to quality healthcare for rural Americans,” said Bill Sexton, CEO Prairie du Chien Memorial Hospital and 2006 President of the National Rural Health Association. “I have known him since he first took office and he has always been there when we needed him.”
02.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind today sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker encouraging him to invest in transportation projects in the state and specifically support the St. Croix River Crossing Project in an effort to create jobs and bring business to the surrounding area.“As your administration reviews the urgent transportation needs of our state, I write requesting that you immediately address the future of the Stillwater Lift Bridge and the St. Croix River Crossing Project,” wrote Rep. Kind. “The 80 year-old Stillwater Lift Bridge is functionally deficient, in need of substantial investment to simply maintain its operation, is the site of substantial congestion and safety hazards, and limits the ability of the region to attract jobs and tourism.”Last year, the National Park Service declared the project would substantially impact the scenic and recreational value of the St. Croix River and could not be made compliant with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. This ruling came after years of work by Federal, state, and local stakeholders (including the National Park Service) to reach a consensus about how to address the transportation, historic preservation, and environmental issues surrounding this project. Now, for this project to move forward, Congress would need to pass legislation that would allow for the construction of the St. Croix River Project.In the letter, Rep. Kind also stresses the importance of investing in infrastructure projects across the state. After Governor Walker put an end to the federally funded high speed rail project that would have created thousands of Wisconsin jobs and spurred economic growth across the state, Rep. Kind is concerned that other transportation and infrastructure projects could also take a back seat and suffer from lack of investment under Walker.Kind wrote, “Western Wisconsin is in dire need of real long-term transportation solutions. High speed rail would have provided a viable alternate mode of transportation to travel into the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area and help ease the congestion on both the Stillwater Bridge and Interstate 94. Since the state has refused federal funding to extend high speed rail from Milwaukee to Minneapolis, it is absolutely vital that your administration puts forward a realistic transportation plan that addresses our aging infrastructure and increasing congestion.”Letters of support from both the Wisconsin and Minnesota Governors outlining the need for the project and the commitment to maintain the environmental mitigation efforts is necessary to facilitate movement at the Congressional level.
01.25.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind made the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address:“I agree with President Obama that as a nation, we must come together to address the challenges facing our country. Democrats, Republicans and Independents must be willing to sit in the same room, listen to one another and work to find the common ground that I know exists. I am pleased that President Obama called on Congress to do that.“I also applaud the President’s focus on innovation and education. We need to pursue policies that will keep our nation the most creative, competitive and innovative in the world. Staying on the cutting edge in science, medicine, technology and manufacturing discoveries and breakthroughs will allow us to do just that. But we must find a way to do it responsibly, investing in what works and cutting what doesn’t. This will help us not only address unnecessary spending but reduce the deficit and improve our long-term fiscal health. I appreciate the President’s focus on the deficit and look forward to working with him to find ways to cut spending so that we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.“As the President stated, we must rebuild our economy so that it’s competitive, growing, and working for all Americans. We’ve made great strides but there is still more work to be done to get our economy back on track. We have a big job ahead of us not only to get families working again but to make sure that America and its workers can compete in a 21st century economy, especially when it comes to advanced energy manufacturing. Western Wisconsin companies are already inventing in many new technologies and we will need to continue these efforts to build and grow competitive clean energy manufacturing. Ensuring America’s competiveness and success is essential to both future generations and the future of our economy. I am pleased the President is laying out a plan for sustainable, long-term economic growth.”
01.24.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today suggested that President Obama graciously hand over his Super Bowl tickets, after the Packers beat the Bears Sunday night, 21-14. “The President said if the Chicago Bears made the Super Bowl, he would definitely attend. Since they of course got pummeled last night by none other than the Green Bay Packers, I’m wondering if he would be so kind as to hand over his tickets – I know there are plenty of us Packer fans that would love to have a seat at the big game. I agree with our cornerback, Charles Woodson, if the President doesn’t want to watch the game in person, we’ll bring the players to the White House after they win.”
01.19.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted against Republican efforts to increase the debt by $230 billion, repeal critical patient’s rights, and give powerful health insurance companies back control of health care decisions. “At a time when we should be focusing on creating jobs and growing the economy, this repeal effort is a waste of time and irresponsibly increases the deficit by $230 billion,” said Rep. Kind. “With the possibility of increased out-of-pocket costs, higher prescription drug prices, and lost coverage, western Wisconsin can’t afford repeal either.”If the repeal passes the Senate and is signed into law, critical consumer protections enacted under the Affordable Care Act would be lost. Big insurance companies will again be able to deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions, cancel coverage when people get sick, raise prescription drug costs, and limit the care people can receive. In western Wisconsin alone,• 2,100 young adults would lose insurance coverage through their parent’s health plans• 110,000 seniors covered under Medicare would be denied preventive care benefits• 8,800 seniors on Medicare would see significantly higher prescription drug costs, fall back into the Medicare Part D Donut Hole, and be denied a 50% discount on prescription drugs this year• 15,700 small businesses and 182,000 families would lose health care tax credits• Health care providers would not be rewarded for high quality, low cost care; there would be increased waste in the system and the cost of care would continue to rise“Last fall, a young man in Black River Falls thanked me for supporting health care reform. I asked him why. He told me his brother needed a kidney a year ago, so he gave him one of his. Now, even though he is a healthy young man, insurance companies deny him coverage because he has a ‘pre-existing condition’. Health care reform ensures he can no longer be denied. We cannot afford to repeal this bill.”Repeal hurts America’s middle class by ending tax breaks and assistance to help millions of families and small businesses pay for coverage. It would eliminate millions of American jobs that are expected to be created by reducing employer costs for health coverage. There is already $800 billion in wasteful spending each year that doesn’t help the patient – this number would continue to grow and the price of care would continue to rise. This would hurt the health care providers in western Wisconsin who are working so hard to provide high quality, affordable care and serve as model for the rest of the country. And repeal explodes the federal deficit by $230 billion over the next 10 years and by more than $1.2 trillion in the following decade.
01.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind yesterday voted for fiscal responsibility, supporting legislation to cut Congress’s budget by five percent. The House passed resolution reduces the amount authorized for expenses of Member, committee, and leadership offices in 2011 and 2012.“Congress must lead by example,” said Rep. Kind. “If we want to get the deficit under control, we must find savings in our day to day budget. It’s something I’ve been doing ever since I came to Washington, working with my staff to find ways to cut our office budget and give back for a portion for deficit reduction. I’m proud to have given back every year, for a total of $1.2 million since taking office.”Rep. Kind opposes the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and continues to lead the effort for earmark reform, forgoing requests since 2008 and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process. “I commend my colleagues for finally agreeing to do what working families have been doing all along in these tough economic times, finding savings in the budget,” said Rep. Kind. “We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I learned well from Senator Bill Proxmire to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars.”
12.21.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today voted for significant investments in science, education and innovation in an effort to spur job growth and ensure America’s economic competitiveness. The bipartisan America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, H.R. 5116, which passed the Senate by unanimous consent on Friday, and passed the House today, will strengthen U.S. scientific and technological leadership, support employers, and create jobs through investments in science, innovation, and education. “The America COMPETES Reauthorization Act is an important investment in our long-term economic future and will help make sure our country remains the most innovative and creative country in the world. Not only will it strengthen science, technology, engineering, and math education, creating the next generation of scientists and entrepreneurs, but it supports basic research and helps foster innovation and creativity in our workforce—all of which are crucial to creating the jobs of the future and ensuring our nation can be a leader in a global economy.” The America COMPETES Reauthorization Act supports science and innovation to strengthen American competitiveness in a 21st century global economy. • The bill creates jobs and supports manufacturers and industry by authorizing programs like Innovative Technology Federal Loan Guarantees to address the immediate need of small- and medium-sized manufacturers to access capital to become more efficient and stay competitive. • This bill fosters innovation by keeping our nation on a path to double funding for basic scientific research and establishing a clean energy manufacturing and construction initiative that will create clean energy jobs, promote sustainability in manufacturing and bolster energy performance in buildings.• The bill expands and strengthens STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) education programs to prepare students for the high-paying, highly-technical jobs of the future. It provides scholarships to train students for secondary education careers in STEM fields, provides grants to increase the number and quality of students receiving degrees, improves STEM learning outcomes for all students by recruiting highly STEM teachers; and works to increase participation in STEM fields by women and minorities to strengthen and diversify the workforce.“This bill is an effort to bring our economy to the next level, create the jobs of the future - and prepare us for those jobs – that’s what economic competitiveness and stability is all about,” said Rep. Kind. “It will create and retain good jobs for Wisconsin and ensure a brighter future for our children.”This bill is a fiscally responsible. Since it is vital to our nation’s scientific and economic competitiveness, the Bowles-Simpson deficit commission singled out basic scientific research as a long-term gain for our nation’s budget.
12.17.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind, a member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, last night voted for fiscal responsibility, opposing the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010.“The last thing we need in this fragile economy is to raise taxes and increase the burden on hard-working American families and small businesses. That’s why we passed such a bill in the House two weeks ago – extending tax relief to small businesses and families making less than $250,000. “The bill that came before us last night, however, irresponsibly increases the deficit by extending tax relief beyond working families and small businesses to the wealthiest two percent of taxpayers who need them the least. Without finding spending cuts in the federal budget to pay for these cuts for millionaires, this bill will add almost $1 trillion to the deficit – more than the cost of the entire American Recovery Act. We cannot afford to borrow billions of dollars from China and add to the debt of our children and grandchildren. This is fiscally irresponsible and economically wrong. For those calling for the extension of tax relief for wealthy Wall Street bankers, they should find corresponding spending cuts in the budget to pay for them.“On top of the cost, there is no indication that these upper income tax cuts spur job growth. Under the Bush Administration, these cuts were enacted to spur job creation yet in the entire eight years of the previous administration we had zero net job growth and the slowest decade of economic growth since the 1930s. The policy of these tax cuts has clearly failed. “The effective tax for the wealthiest two percent is only 17 percent after they itemize and deduct their expenses – a lower effective tax rate than what most working families pay. This is a call for tax simplicity so we can eliminate special interest loopholes and restore fairness to the tax code. Giving the nation’s wealthiest families a tax break is unfair to hard-working Americans and unfair to future generations. Unfortunately, the political leadership in both parties today believes that bipartisan compromise means that each gets what they want without paying for it.”
12.02.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind today voted to permanently extend tax cuts for middle-income families and small businesses to help spur economic growth and provide assistance during these tough economic times. The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 is a critical step in providing economic security and stability for millions of Americans.“Our working families and our small businesses need these tax cuts,” said Rep. Kind. “The last thing we need in this fragile economy is to raise taxes. But maintaining these tax breaks for wealthy Wall Street bankers without finding spending cuts in the federal budget to pay for them is not fiscally responsible – it just digs us deeper into the hole.”For all families and small businesses making less than $250,000 a year, the bill permanently extends the 2001/2003 tax cuts, including current tax rates. This means that 97 percent of American families and 97 percent of small businesses will get a tax cut. A typical middle-class family, including 99 percent of western Wisconsin, will see savings of approximately $1,000 per year. The bill also permanently extends small business expensing, allowing businesses the ability to grow and create jobs.“We just cannot afford to borrow $700 billion from China and saddle our children and grandchildren with this debt by extending the Bush tax cuts for millionaires. We must address the deficit and that means we need to stop enacting tax cuts for the richest two percent of taxpayers who need them the least.”The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and most economists believe that short-term job creation is more likely to result from policies that put money in the hands of low-income and middle-income people, who are likely to invest back into the economy. In addition, according to CBO, the wealthiest taxpayers pay an effective income tax rate of only about 17 percent, a lower rate than many middle class families.The 111th Congress has enacted 16 tax cuts for American small businesses -- $87 billion in tax cuts to spur investment, access capital, facilitate starts and hiring, and to help them afford health care. Republicans voted against 15 of the 16 small business tax cuts, and opposed closing overseas tax loopholes costing American jobs.
12.01.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today with a bipartisan group of his colleagues sent a letter to House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson and Ranking Member Frank Lucas encouraging the committee to move forward with the reauthorization of the farm bill in 2011.“We cannot wait to reauthorize the farm bill, it is essential to getting our deficit under control,” said Rep. Kind. “We must reform the wasteful subsidies going to very few but large agribusinesses. They are not fair to the American taxpayer and not fair to family farmers.”The ongoing Brazilian cotton dispute, in which America provides millions in assistance to Brazilian agribusiness, the widespread recognition of inefficient and wasteful spending within American farm programs, as well as the affect this spending has on the deficit, prompted Rep. Kind and his colleagues to push for movement on the bill in 2011 rather than delaying action until 2012. They wrote,The costs of delaying action on the reauthorization of the farm bill have a direct impact on our deficits and cannot be ignored…Every serious study of how to reduce the deficit includes proposals to save billions of dollars from agricultural subsidies. The Center for American Progress’s “A Thousand Cuts” report laid out a series of options that would reduce direct subsidies between 50%-75%, saving taxpayers $7-$11 billion by 2015. The CATO Institute’s “Downsizing Government” project calls for an annual $30 billion cut in farm programs. The Brookings Institute’s Bill Galston and New America Foundation’s Maya MacGuineas cut farm subsidies as part of their “The Future is Now” plan.The subsidies are outdated and no longer providing a meaningful safety net for many of our farmers, as they were designed to do during the Great Depression. In fact, nearly 60 percent of our farmers are not getting any subsidy at all. And of those who do get a subsidy, just 10 percent end up receiving over 60 percent of all the federal subsidy dollars, further showing the need for reform.“Without reform, Americans will continue to fund wasteful farm subsidies,” said Rep. Kind. “Reform now is necessary to ensuring the effectiveness of our farm programs and the appropriate use of taxpayer dollars.”Letter here.
10.04.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today attended the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value in the U.S. Capitol where states, health care providers, consumer advocates, employers and other interested stakeholders gathered to share their ideas about how health care reform can promote high quality health care.As a leader of the Congressional Quality Care Coalition, Rep. Ron Kind helped lead negotiations securing the formation of the HHS National Summit today. The summit was included as part of a larger compromise adding language to the health care reform legislation, correcting the unfairness of Medicare reimbursement rates and taking steps toward historic payment reform that rewards the value of care delivered instead of the quantity of care delivered. Two Institute of Medicine studies on promoting quality and value, the Quality Care Coalition helped secure, have already started. The National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value provides another forum to discuss how health care reform can be implemented to help patients and providers in western Wisconsin.“A value-based reimbursement system benefits all regions – it provides the kind of care patients need and can afford, and reduces risks associated with overuse of the health care system,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Today’s summit will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, something at which western Wisconsin has excelled.”HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Dr. Donald Berwick addressed the attendees while Dr. Karl Ulrich (Marshfield Clinic) and Dr. Mike Dolan (Gundersen Lutheran) both served as experts on panels throughout the summit. Dr. Ulrich and Dr. Dolan discussed ideas for new models of coordinating care and restructuring care delivery to improve patient outcomes and control costs as well as highlighted specific examples of health care delivery systems that produce good outcomes while lowering costs in western Wisconsin.“Today's Summit provided a forum for emphasizing what American health care should be about: providing quality care at an affordable price,” said Dr. Ulrich. “Clearly there is a positive momentum amongst providers of health care to undertake this in a collaborative fashion. It will be important to sustain and enlarge upon many of the innovative ideas shared today.”“Today’s Summit opened the important discussion that is needed to move Medicare payment reform toward a value-based system rather than a volume-based one,” said Dr. Dolan.”
09.23.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to establish a voluntary lending program to help small businesses create 500,000 new jobs by expanding much needed lending to millions of small businesses and offering tax incentives to help them grow, hire, and fuel our economy. The bill also includes a provision, authored by Rep. Kind, that allows the self-employed to deduct 2010 health insurance costs. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, H.R. 5297, is not only fully paid for over 10 years, but also reduces the deficit by closing tax loopholes and reducing the tax gap. “Small businesses are the engine of our economy, creating two out of three new jobs right now,” said Rep. Kind. “I know western Wisconsin small businesses and family farmers continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards, this bill will help unfreeze the credit markets and create generous tax incentives to help our local businesses create more jobs.” The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act gives small businesses $12 billion in tax cuts to spur investment and hiring, including by doubling and enhancing small business expensing and extending bonus depreciation to make it cheaper for companies to invest in their business right now. The Jobs and Credit Act also allows for 100% exclusion of capital gains on investments in small businesses. The bill leverages up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses, along with state grants for small business lending. This new $30 billion lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. In addition, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act includes provisions, authored by Rep. Kind, to allow the self-employed to deduct the cost of health insurance in 2010 for themselves and their family members for payroll tax purposes. Under current law, the self-employed are not permitted to deduct the cost of health insurance for themselves and their family members for purposes of calculating self-employment tax. The self-employed, including family farmers, will save over $2 billion in 2010 because of this provision. “My primary focus has always been to provide the resources to help small business grow and create jobs in this tough economy,” said Rep. Kind. “This legislation will not only drive job creation and innovation, but also give small businesses the capital they need to put western Wisconsin back to work.”The bill is supported by National Small Business Association, Small Business Majority, National Retail Federation, National Restaurant Association, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association, Financial Services Roundtable, Business & Professional Women’s Foundation, International Franchise Association, Motor & Equipment Manufacturers, and National Association for the Self-Employed.
09.20.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today unveiled his plan to grow the manufacturing industry and create jobs in an effort to keep America competitive and ensure our economic success at the Minnesota Wire plant in Eau Claire. Kind was joined by several members of the local manufacturing community, including Minnesota Wire and the NW Manufacturing Outreach Center partnered with UW-Stout, to help unveil the agenda.“America has the talent and the spirit to ensure our country continues to be the most innovative country in the world and the most successful in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Kind. “This plan helps us capitalize on those strengths, support the transformation and growth of our manufacturing sector, create good paying jobs here at home and guarantee America’s economic success. For a country as great as ours, we need to build things, construct things and grow things here in America.”Rep. Kind’s manufacturing agenda recommends steps that help strengthen the manufacturing sector, increase the competitiveness of American workers, create jobs and ensure America is a leader in the global economy. The plan outlines three major initiatives.Building upon a Solid Labor Force Foundation: Success depends on getting people back to work now with near term-projects while at the same time, growing and training a skilled workforce needed for the high-tech manufacturing jobs of the future. This idea focuses on worker training; growing, attracting, and retaining scientific talent in America; and investing in existing infrastructure for efficiency.Encouraging and Investing in New Ideas: America must continue to be at the forefront of innovation, which means fostering innovation and encouraging businesses and entrepreneurs to build and grow cutting-edge manufacturing here in the U.S. This can be done through improving research and development tax incentives, promoting collaboration between R&D and production, encouraging long-term capital investments, and promoting innovation at the small business level.Making a Global Presence a Priority: To effectively compete in a global economy, America must work with other countries to ensure that our manufacturers are treated fairly and have the opportunities to compete in new markets. In order to do this, we must focus on enforcing international trade agreements; ensuring we have fair trade agreements for new markets; and improving our tax competitiveness, closing foreign tax loopholes and ending currency manipulation by China."We need to let American innovation take the lead once again for science, technology and manufacturing,” said Minnesota Wire CEO Paul Wagner. “That's where the best jobs have always come from here at home. We support public sector and government initiatives when they help create the freedoms that unleash our entrepreneurs, and pioneering individuals and businesses.""Jobs are very important to the overall health of our country,” said NW Manufacturing Outreach Center Director Larry Blackledge. “A strong, competitive, and very productive manufacturing base is essential to this. To this end, we need to do the things that keep and grow manufacturing here at home, providing useful products for the markets of our country and the world.”The following local manufacturers and organizations also support the plan and stood with Rep. Kind today as he unveiled the initiative: Trane, Eau Claire Area Economic Development Corporation and St. Croix Economic Development Corporation.To view Rep. Kind’s manufacturing agenda, please click here.
09.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today at two meetings with local farmers and community members focused on agriculture, rural economic development, current efforts at creating jobs and growing the economy. “Small businesses and family farmers are the backbone of our economy and the lifeblood of our communities,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m pleased that Secretary Vilsack was able to join me today in discussing some of the topics most important to western Wisconsin. I will continue to work hard to help ensure our farmers get a fair shake and our rural communities get the resources they need to compete in a global economy.”Rep. Kind and Secretary Vilsack first met with a group of about 60 members of the ag community at Goplin Homestead Dairy Farm in Osseo, Wis. to discuss rural economic development and efforts to support local farmers. Rep. Kind detailed recent efforts to help struggling farmers including tax credits and incentives to help farmers access the credit market and stay afloat in a tough economy. He also discussed the use of biofuels as well as the importance of farm subsidy reform. Many attendees expressed concerns with dairy prices and asked questions that ranged from immigration to starting a farm to accessing credit.Rep. Kind and Secretary Vilsack then traveled to Tri County Communications in Strum, Wis. where they were able to join a roundtable of local businesses and co-ops – including Producers and Buyers Co-op out of Eau Claire, Sacred Heart Hospital, Associated Milk Producers Inc, Eleva-Strum School District, credit unions and community banks, Jackson Electric Cooperative, Chippewa Valley Bean Company, and UW Extension - to discuss efforts to promote rural economic development, including increased access to broadband Internet, and spur job creation. Secretary Vilsack also announced that through USDA Rural Development's Rural Energy for America Program (REAP) and three other economic development programs, USDA is providing $2.7 million in loans and grants to help Wisconsin farmers and rural small businesses reduce energy consumption, create jobs and promote economic development. For more information and to see the list of recipients see “news” here.“Rural America continues facing many challenges and it is imperative that we have leaders like Congressman Kind who are dedicated to creating jobs for rural residents while maintaining a strong safety net for our farmers,” said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.
08.10.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to save and create nearly 320,000 jobs – including saving the jobs of 160,000 teachers and preventing the layoffs of tens of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and nurses. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act is not only completely paid for, it reduces the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years—through spending cuts and by closing a loophole that encourages corporations to ship American jobs overseas.“Many communities in Wisconsin are being forced to choose between important public services,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill changes that. “Our kids shouldn’t have to wait for a full economic recovery to receive a quality education.”The legislation provides $10 billion in funding to save more than 160,000 teacher jobs nationwide. The bill is expected to fund approximately 3,000 K-12 jobs in the state and 284 K-12 jobs in western Wisconsin alone, according to the National Education Association. It also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states that, by reducing shortfalls and stimulating the economy, will save and create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and firefighters. More than half these jobs will be in the private sector, including workers who contract for or supply services to state and local governments. “This bill is good for our teachers, public servants and middle class families,” said Rep. Kind. “It creates jobs, keeps our communities safe, ensures quality education in our schools and is fiscally responsible by reducing the deficit through spending reductions in the budget.” The funding in the bill is supported by a majority of the nation’s Governors, including many Republican Governors, and by numerous organizations, including the bipartisan National Conference of State Legislatures, National Association of Counties and the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations.
08.03.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to hold BP and responsible parties accountable for the disaster in the Gulf, prevent future oil spills and protect our coastal communities and water Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) recently voted for the CLEAR Act, H.R. 3534. Passed by the House of Representatives last Friday, the CLEAR Act creates new safety measures, holds the oil industry fully responsible for the cleanup costs of the BP spill, strengthens oversight of oil drilling and works to restore the Gulf Coast.“I am standing up to the Big Oil companies – to hold BP accountable for this disaster, help the Gulf Coast recover, protect our water and the livelihoods of those affected, and ensure that oil companies are held to a higher standard of safety and responsibility,” said Rep. Kind.The CLEAR Act works to ensure that BP and other responsible parties – and not taxpayers – are held accountable to pay for the disaster cleanup and costs related to the spill. “This oil spill is an extension of the last administration’s treatment of the oil industry – letting them police themselves, working for Big Oil instead of the American people. The worst environmental disaster in American history and a growing dependence on foreign oil is what we got with that approach. We must continue to move forward on a path to American energy independence and holding oil companies accountable. This legislation is good for our families, our environment and the health of our natural resources and is critical to ensuring that we never face another disaster like this.”The Clear Act takes steps to prevent and respond to oil spills and protect our coastal communities and waters. Specifically it will:Implement strong new safety measures.Hold BP and the oil industry fully responsible for the cleanup costs and recovery after spills – removing the $75 million cap on economic damages to be paid by Big Oil to families and small businesses.Strengthen oversight of oil drilling by officially eliminating the Minerals Management Service and placing oversight responsibilities into three separate agencies.Restore the Gulf Coast and protect local residents.Provide taxpayer protections to make oil companies pay their fair share for drilling on public lands.Protects offshore oil and gas workers who report violations or practices that endanger the public to state and federal government authorities.The CLEAR Act also provides full, permanent funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), which goes toward creating wildlife refuges and national, state and local parks, among other outdoor recreation amenities. The LWCF is unique in that it is the only federal conservation program that reinvests oil and gas development revenue back into conservation. Rep. Kind authored an amendment to the bill that ensures that annually, approximately 1.5 percent, or approximately $13 million in LWCF funding would go toward increasing recreational access on federal public lands. The amendment passed by the House and was included in the final passage of the CLEAR Act.“This amendment ensures outdoor enthusiasts have access to adequate outdoor recreation, are able to participate in hunting, fishing and other recreational activities and are given every opportunity to foster an appreciation for the great outdoors.”The CLEAR Act builds on legislation already passed by the House of Representatives to ensure fair compensation to the families of those killed or injured in the BP spill, ensure aid to the Gulf, tough oversight for BP, and ample resources to respond to the spill, and develop new methods and technologies to clean up oil spills and safer drilling technologies and prevent an accident such as the BP disaster from ever happening again.
07.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) yesterday voted to provide funding for health care benefits, military housing, and mission critical facilities to troops and veterans through H.R. 5822, the FY 2011 Military Construction/VA Appropriations bill. “I am committed to supporting our men and women that work so hard to defend this country,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill looks out for their health and well-being, making sure they have access to safe facilities and quality health care both overseas and domestically. Just as our military pledges to leave no troop behind on the battlefield, this bill helps us keep our commitment to leaving no veteran behind when they return home.”The bill provides funding for quality medical care for over 6 million veterans in 2011, including more than 439,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan. It also includes an unprecedented increase to support the processing of more than 1 million VA disability claims – including newly eligible Agent Orange disabilities, strengthens the VA workforce to tackle more claims, and provides new family caregiver benefits to disabled veterans.In addition, the bill helps modernize military housing, supports additional military construction requirements to support operations and troop increases in Afghanistan, and funds environmental cleanups on closed military bases.“It is critical that we support these services to make sure our troops are successful in their mission, return home quickly, and are taken care of here in America. The bill helps us keep this promise and does so in a way that is fiscally responsible – by cutting programs that aren’t working and using those funds to provide resources to the programs that are.”The bill is strongly supported by veterans’ service organizations. The VFW, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, and Paralyzed Veterans of America praise the bill.
07.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today launched an interactive Google Map on his website (www.kind.house.gov) to highlight American Recovery and Reinvestment Act projects in western Wisconsin and help ensure the transparency of the legislation, so that Americans know where money is being allocated and how local communities are impacted. The map reflects projects and data reported to the federal government as of March 31, 2010 and will be updated as more date becomes available. There are 1,075 projects reported in the Third Congressional District for a total of $322,303,839 in Recovery Act funds.“Recovery Act funds are making a great impact here in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “Whether in the form of tax credits, funding for our school districts, dollars for highway and transportation projects, or incentives for families to increase energy efficiency in their homes and businesses – the Recovery Act has supported projects and jobs that may have otherwise gone unfunded. We will continue to update the map to show residents how and where tax payer dollars are helping jumpstart the economy and getting Wisconsinites back to work.” The Recovery Act, enacted in January 2009, is saving and creating jobs across the country. It strikes the right balance: tax cuts which have given relief and spending power to 98 percent of American families and brought down tax bills to the lowest level since 1950, help for men and women hit hardest by this recession, aid to state and local governments, and investment in infrastructure and new industries. As of June, our economy has created private-sector jobs for six months in a row – totaling nearly 600,000 new jobs so far this year. The Recovery Act so far has raised employment by between 2.5 million and 3.6 million jobs.Jobs Numbers in WisconsinWisconsin Department of Workforce Development (DWD) announced last week that unemployment dropped to a seasonally adjusted 7.9 percent in June, from 8.2 percent in May, a full percentage point lower than in June 2009 (8.9 percent), and its lowest point since February 2009. June was the third straight month that saw a drop in the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate. Wisconsin’s unemployment rate remains below the national rate of 9.5 percent with seasonal adjustment and 9.6 percent without seasonal adjustment.Through May 2010, Wisconsin’s unemployment rate remains below that of other heavy-manufacturing Midwest states including Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.Without seasonal adjustment, Wisconsin added 38,300 private-sector jobs in June, including 8,300 in manufacturing, 7,900 in trade and 5,700 in construction. The number of government jobs dropped by 14,800.Seventy-one Wisconsin counties showed unemployment rate decreases in May, with the 72nd, Grant County, holding at the same rate as April. Dane County had the lowest unemployment rate in May at 5.2 percent, followed by La Crosse County (5.7 percent) and Buffalo, Pierce and Pepin counties (5.8 percent). In addition, 67 counties posted lower unemployment rates in May 2010 than they did one year earlier. Unemployment rates dropped in every metro area, with Madison showing the lowest rate (5.5 percent), followed by La Crosse (5.8 percent) and Eau Claire (6.4 percent).
07.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that, following the re-opening of the project bidding process on the La Crosse USGS Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center by the Department of Interior, a local contractor, R.J. Jurowski Corporation of Whitehall, Wis., has been awarded the $5.2 million contract for expansion of the science center, funded from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Rep. Kind requested that for fair competition the contract be re-opened to bidding by all interested contractors, including local companies, in March of this year.“R.J. Jurowski Corporation being awarded the contract will not only create local jobs, but will result in local economic and community growth as the center will be an educational resource to teachers, students, business people and conservationists across Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “After personally speaking with Dept. of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, urging him to re-open the bidding process for the project, I am pleased that the process is complete and that groundbreaking will be held soon.” Funded by the Recovery Act, the USGS contracting process was initially opened for bids using a process designed to streamline the bidding method, exempting many interested contractors, an approach not commonly used by the US Geological Survey (USGS) in awarding contracts. When brought to his attention, Congressman Kind urged the Department of Interior to revise the process to ensure local contractors had the opportunity to compete for Recovery Act dollars. Upon investigation, the Department of Interior determined that the process selected for the specific contract was inappropriate and subsequently decided to re-open the bidding process for the La Crosse Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center, allowing local contractors to bid. R.J. Jurowski Corporation of Whitehall, Wis., was recently awarded the contract to construct 24,000 feet of office space, including a geospatial information systems laboratory and a large conference center to bring more science to the community. Groundbreaking will be in mid-July and the project is slated for completion in August 2011.“This addition to our facility will enable us to better serve our partners, stakeholders and the public by increasing our capacity to address critical natural resource issues, such as control of Asian carp and other invasive species, protection of our threatened wildlife, and management and restoration of the Upper Mississippi River, Great Lakes and other areas across the nation and world,” said Michael D. Jawson, Director of the Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center. “For example, the Geospatial Laboratory will increase our capacity to produce decision support models, maps and tools while providing students with experiences addressing real issues and problems. The Conference Center will allow us to communicate our science more effectively to the community, including schools, businesses, other agencies and the public.”Research at the USGS in La Crosse focuses on the Upper Mississippi River from Minneapolis to below St. Louis and the Great Lakes area, and other lands held by Interior. Research has applicability across the nation and world, including:• Long-term-resource monitoring and ecological research on large rivers• Restoration of degraded habitats• Species of management concern including birds, fish, native mussels, and amphibians• Wildlife ecology and contaminants• Control of aquatic invasive species such as Asian carp, zebra mussels, and sea lamprey• Fisheries health• Applications of remote sensing and geospatial technologies to resource management
07.07.2010	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today held an event with U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) to highlight the Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act, legislation calling for the development of a coordinated, public-private approach to studying and reducing nutrient and sediment runoff in the Upper Mississippi River Basin. Legislation Kind authored, the bill also establishes a water-quality monitoring system and a computer modeling program to analyze data. “The river plays a vital role in our economy and our quality of life in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind, founder and Co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force. “Increased sediment and nutrient flow into the upper basin poses a very serious threat to the long-term health of the entire Mississippi River system. This bill will lay the scientific foundation necessary to ensure the future quality and beauty of the Mississippi for generations to come.”The accumulation of excess sediment from increased soil erosion and nutrients, such as fertilizers and animal waste, in the Upper Mississippi River Basin degrades aquatic and wetland habitat and imperils a wide variety of fish and waterfowl. The increased soil erosion causes applied fertilizer from area farms to wash into the river, resulting not only in dangerously high nitrogen and phosphorous levels, but also a reduction in the long-term sustainability and income of family farms, and the plaguing of farmers annually with $300 million in unnecessary costs. In addition, sediment accumulation fills the main shipping channel of the river and valuable wetlands throughout the basin, reducing the value to wildlife and their capacity as nutrient filters and costing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers more than $100 million annually in dredging costs. The Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act aims to produce the data needed to better understand sediment and nutrient flow from its source in the landscape to its destination in rivers and lakes and drive the innovation needed to solve the excess sediment and nutrient problem in the Mississippi River System. The legislation establishes a sedimentation and nutrient reduction monitoring network and an integrated computer modeling program that, when combined, will provide the baseline data needed to make scientifically sound and cost-effective decisions to improve the Upper Mississippi River's ecosystem.“While there is no easy solution to stopping the runoff of sediment and nutrients into the Upper Mississippi River Basin, this legislation will make significant strides toward reducing this flow of harmful pollutants into the river,” said Rep. Kind. “I have worked closely with farmers, industry, sporting groups, conservation organizations, and government agencies to develop this effective, basin-wide, and non-regulatory approach. Having passed the House recently, I am confident that with Senator Klobuchar’s help, the bill will find support in the Senate as well.”The bill passed the House of Representatives on March 19, 2010. Under Senator Klobuchar’s sponsorship, the Senate held a hearing on the bill on June 9, 2010. The Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works is expected to mark up the bill in coming months.“It doesn’t matter what side of the river you’re on, we all have a stake in protecting our land and water,” said Senator Klobuchar. “Every time soil and nutrients run off the land, it increases the cost of farming and the cost of maintaining navigation on the Mississippi River. These costs add up to hundreds of millions of dollars every year. This legislation will ensure that objective, scientific data is available for everyone to work together to safeguard our natural resources for multiple uses, whether it’s farming, industry, transportation, recreation or hunting and fishing.”The Upper Mississippi River system, with tributaries and a basin encompassing much of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri, is widely recognized as one of our nation’s great multi-use natural resources. The Mississippi River and its tributaries provide drinking water to approximately 22 million Americans and the system’s 1,300 navigable miles transport millions of tons of commercial cargo via barges. In addition, 40 percent of North America’s waterfowl use the wetlands and backwaters of the main stem as a migratory flyway, illustrating the environmental significance of the system as well as recreation capabilities.
07.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today sent a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency expressing concern over the EPA’s intent to require milk producers to prepare oil spill prevention plans. “It’s absurd that butterfat in milk is being considered a form of oil,” said Rep. Kind. “The tremendous burden of requiring dairy farmers to complete oil response plans vastly outweighs any nominal potential environmental impact that might occur in the unlikely event of a butterfat spill. It is inappropriate to treat butterfat as if it poses as much danger to our natural resources as oil does.”According to EPA regulations, farms with a storage capacity of at least 1,320 gallons of oil products would be required to put together a Spill, Prevention, Control and Countermeasure plan to guard against oil spills. Under the law, butterfat in milk is considered a form of oil.Kind writes to the EPA, “I hope that we can work to better foster a positive dialogue between the EPA and Congress as you look to implement future rules and regulations. I am concerned that the EPA’s proposed rule to require spill contingency plans for dairy farmers may be symptomatic of a broader trend that does not fully consider the appropriate balance between your critical mission to protect the environment and difficult local economic realities.”
06.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Vice-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition, which led the way in calling for Wall Street reform, today voted to protect consumers and hold Wall Street banks accountable through the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 4173, so that we never again come close to the near economic collapse faced last year. The bill passed 237-192. “Today we put an end to bailouts for big banks, established tough consumer protections, and most importantly, put into place strict rules against risky financial practices that will hold Wall Street more accountable,” said Rep. Kind. “Never again will taxpayers be held hostage by large institutions that make bad decisions jeopardizing the entire United States economy.” The legislation holds Wall Street accountable through increased transparency and regulation of risky practices. A new systemic risk regulator will monitor financial activity across the whole sector to identify risks and irresponsible behavior and prevent them from becoming a problem for individual investors and the entire economy. The bill also establishes an orderly process for dismantling large, failing banks - at their own expense, and requires that stockholders and executives take a financial hit if risky deals fall through, ensuring an end to taxpayer funded bailouts.The bill also enacts several measures to protect consumers including:• Ensuring that credit cards and mortgages are fair, transparent, and understandable by creating the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA), a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services and providing quality information about potential risks. • Helping protect 401k and pension plans by stopping institutions from taking risks that threaten the financial system and can cause a crash.• Addressing the problems in the derivatives market by increasing transparency in order to protect economic growth.• Ending predatory lending practices so that lenders can’t put consumers into an unaffordable or difficult to understand loan.“These reforms are critical to preventing another financial meltdown,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill injects transparency and accountability into our financial system to make sure banks play by the rules and at the same time, protects consumers and small businesses’ ability take appropriate risk to support economic growth and job creation.”
06.29.2010	Washington, DC - Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), active member and past co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and senior member of the House Natural Resources and Ways and Means Committees, today voted to strengthen wildlife conservation funding in America by helping firearm and ammunition manufacturers grow their businesses in the bipartisan Firearms Excise Tax Improvement Act of 2010, H.R. 5552, legislation he authored. The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, 412-6.“I’m proud to have authored and the House to have passed this important legislation to allow for the creation of jobs for working families, save money for business, increase investment in wildlife conservation, and simplify and make consistent the payment of excise tax across industries—all of which is paid for and fully compliant with pay-as-you-go budgeting rules.”The Firearms Excise Tax Improvement Act changes the excise tax payment schedule for firearm and ammunition manufacturers from a bi-weekly to a quarterly schedule. The current frequency of tax payments for the firearm and ammunition manufacturers represents a burden on the industry. In fact, some manufacturers are forced to secure short-term loans to pay their taxes, thus incurring additional expenses and adding to administrative overhead. The end result is that money is diverted away from core business areas to finance tax payments. Switching to a quarterly excise tax payment system would allow manufacturers to reinvest funds into researching and developing new products, purchasing new manufacturing machinery, and increasing marketing and outreach to the hunting and sport shooting community. Selling more products also would increase federal excise tax (FET) revenue and, ultimately, the flow of dollars into the Pittman Robertson Wildlife Restoration Trust Fund, which authorizes the development of wildlife restoration projects across the country. “The bill is a commonsense fix that will do a lot to support sport-shooting in America,” said Rep. Kind. “By making a simple schedule change we can free up more capital to reinvest in the development of new products. The best part about this is that by supporting the expansion of hunting and sport-shooting, we will in turn create additional revenue to conserve the natural areas that are so important to sportsmen and women in this country.”Outdoor recreation activities like hunting and fishing in Wisconsin contribute over $9.7 billion annually to Wisconsin’s economy and supports 129,000 jobs, generating $570 million in annual state tax revenue. Companies in Wisconsin that manufacture, distribute and sell firearms, ammunition and hunting equipment employ as many as 2,050 people in the state and generate an additional 2,300 jobs in supplier and ancillary industries. Across the nation, these companies employ as many as 183,000 people. “Today is a major victory for firearms and ammunition manufacturers who will now be treated equally under the U.S. tax code and as a result will be able to reinvest funds into researching and developing new products, purchasing new manufacturing machinery, and creating jobs,” said Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation President Jeff Crane. “This legislation will also help to continue funding major conservation efforts throughout the nation via the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Trust Fund.”"This bill will strengthen wildlife conservation funding in America by helping manufacturers to grow their businesses," said Lawrence G. Keane, senior vice president and general counsel of the National Shooting Sports Foundation. "We are thankful for the tremendous support and leadership of Congressman Kind, who sponsored this bill."The Firearms Excise Tax Improvement Act is supported by the entire firearms industry including the National Rifle Association supports this legislation, as well as all major conservation groups, including the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, Delta Waterfowl, Ducks Unlimited, National Wild Turkey Federation, North American Wetlands Conservation Council, and Pheasants Forever. The bill is also fully supported by the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service.
06.24.2010	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to shed light on the role of special interests by increasing disclosure and strengthening transparency in federal campaigns. The DISCLOSE Act will reveal to Americans what foreign and big corporations are spending to influence elections.“The American people have a right to know who is spending what to influence elections,” said Rep. Kind. “The recent Supreme Court decision Citizens United opened the door for a flood of corporate and union spending in our elections, with no transparency. This common-sense bill restores accountability to federal campaigns and sheds light on campaign spending.”The DISCLOSE Act requires corporations, organizations, and special interest groups to stand by their political advertising. CEOs will need to identify themselves in their advertisements, and corporations and organizations will be required to disclose their political expenditures. It will stop Wall Street, Big Oil, and U.S. corporations controlled by foreign governments from secretly manipulating elections by funneling money to front groups that run last minute attack ads and other anonymous election advertisements. The bill also prohibits entities that receive taxpayer money – such as large government contractors and corporations receiving TARP funds – from turning around and spending that money to influence elections.This landmark bill is the most far-reaching and significant campaign finance reform law since the McCain-Feingold Act, and does more to strengthen disclosure and transparency than any measure in recent history. It has been subject to extensive bipartisan debate, including six public hearings, and contains both Democratic and Republican amendments. The DISCLOSE Act has strong support from the campaign finance reform community and been endorsed by Common Cause, League of Women Voters, Public Citizen, Campaign Legal Center, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), and Democracy 21, among many other organizations.
06.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today to create a voluntary lending program for small businesses and generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act (H.R. 5297) expands much-needed lending to small businesses, offers tax incentives to help America’s small businesses grow, and is fully paid for saving taxpayers $1 billion over the next 10 years.“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy,” said Rep. Kind. “They are generating 65 percent of jobs, serve as important anchors in our towns and villages, and are the engine of our recovery. Small businesses have told me that their number one concern is access to loans. This legislation will help give them the capital they need to put Wisconsinites back to work and drive job creation and innovation.”The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act will help small businesses expand through investments in community banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. The bill will leverage up to $300 billion in loans for small businesses through a $30 billion lending fund. This new lending fund, with tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small business, will spur job creation across America. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups.The bill also offers $3.5 billion in tax incentives and tax relief to spur immediate investments in America’s small businesses. These reforms will eliminate capital gains taxes on small business investments, and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. “This legislation is just another part of our ongoing effort to create local jobs and put our economy back on track,” said Rep. Kind. “My primary focus on the Ways and Means Committee has been to strengthening our small businesses. I will continue working to provide our small businesses every possible resource to weather this economy and help them create the jobs we need in our communities.”The Act has been endorsed by organizations including the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, the American Bankers Association, and the National Bankers Association.
06.15.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – As Members of Congress seek assurance of BP’s ability and willingness to clean up the spill, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and 31 other members of Congress called on the oil company to suspend dividend payments and advertising campaigns until it remedies the environmental disaster and joined the President in calling for dividend funds to be put in an escrow account dedicated to cleaning up the Deepwater Horizon spill and compensating its victims. “We urge you to halt your planned dividend payout and cancel your advertising campaign until you have done the hard work of capping the well, cleaning up the Gulf Coast and making whole those whose very livelihoods are threatened by this catastrophe,” the members wrote. “Not a moment before then should you return to business as usual.”In two different letters to BP CEO Tony Hayward, the House members urged BP to halt profit payouts and public relations campaigns and ensure it has the funds to pay the full costs of the devastating Gulf Oil spill by temporarily suspending its annual $10 billion dividend. Further, the group called on BP to establish an escrow account to cover cleanup and compensation costs – and to direct dividend payments to that account.“Your company has affirmed its intention to pay the full costs of this devastating environmental and economic disaster,” Kind and his colleagues wrote. “As those costs continue to rise – to $37 billion, by one estimate – the American people require an assurance that your company will be able to honor all legitimate claims.”“While BP swears they will cover the costs inflicted by this spill, their actions speak differently,” said Rep. Kind. “The company avoids answering direct questions, including ones I raised during an oversight hearing last month, and prioritizes paying dividends to shareholders over compensating the communities and people affected by this disaster. This is completely unacceptable. BP should focus on plugging the hole, mitigating damage, assisting investigators, and compensating the Gulf coast.”
06.09.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced that starting tomorrow, Medicare will begin mailing out tens of thousands of $250 ‘donut hole’ checks to seniors, to help defray the costs of prescription drugs, as part of the recent health care reform bill passed by Congress in March.“Prescription drug costs are a significant burden on the income of seniors in both western Wisconsin and across the country,” said Rep. Kind. “This check is the first step in the longer-term reform of closing the Medicare Part D coverage gap altogether.” Medicare beneficiaries don’t have to do anything to get the check, they come directly to you and there are no forms to fill out—seniors should not give personal information to any caller, anyone who writes them, or any individual who comes to their door. Kind warns seniors to be on the lookout for fraud. There are already reports of scam artists trying to take advantage of seniors. More information on types of Medicare fraud can be found at www.stopmedicarefraud.gov. In 2009, approximately 74,400 Medicare beneficiaries in Wisconsin hit the donut hole, or gap in Medicare Part D drug coverage, and received no extra help to defray the cost of their prescription drugs. Now, under health reform, help is on the way. Medicare beneficiaries in Wisconsin who hit the gap this year will automatically be mailed a one-time $250 rebate check. The checks are completely paid for through savings found in the health care system and do not add a dime to the federal deficit. The $250 checks are just the first step in reducing prescription drug prices under health care reform. Beginning in 2011, the health care reform institutes a 50 percent discount on brand name drugs in the donut hole, and completely closes the donut hole for all prescription drugs by 2020. The average senior who enters the donut hole will save $700 in 2011 and over $3000 by 2020. Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors is only one of the many benefits for seniors included in the recently enacted health reform law. Other benefits for seniors include:• Provides free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011.• Improves seniors’ access to doctors.• Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse.• Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate.
06.08.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that individuals interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies must submit their applications by Friday, October 15, 2010.“I am always impressed by the highly motivated and disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate some of western Wisconsin’s best and brightest students to become the military leaders of the future, and I again look forward to meeting this year’s applicants.”A congressional nomination is required for students wishing to enter the:• U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York• U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland• U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; and• Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New YorkThe application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance the following year.Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting Mark Aumann in Rep. Ron Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official Web site: www.kind.house.gov.
06.03.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today hosted Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius in La Crosse. The Secretary, joined by Rep. Kind, Governor Doyle, and Rep. Tim Walz (MN) met with a group of 50 local seniors to discuss benefits to seniors – including free preventative care, better primary care and the closing of the donut hole - as part the Affordable Care Act. They also met with doctors and administrators at Gundersen Lutheran Health System, addressed the staff and toured the quality care facility. “Health care reform ensures the people of western Wisconsin have access to affordable health care no matter their age, income or occupation,” said Rep. Kind. “It also provides security for our seniors, strengthening Medicare and closing the prescription drug donut hole. I am pleased to have the Secretary visit western Wisconsin to speak directly to our local seniors, answer questions and clear up any misunderstandings. Having fought to change the way we pay for health care in this country, I’m pleased the Secretary is also able to spend time at Gundersen Lutheran, which served as a national model for quality care and lower costs throughout health care reform.” Secretary Sebelius, along with Rep. Kind, Rep. Walz (MN) and Governor Doyle, addressed concerns and answered questions from over 75 local seniors regarding the Affordable Care Act at the Southside Neighborhood Center in La Crosse. The discussion featured topics such as the Affordable Care Act’s impact on Medicare - including the $250 checks, which begin going out this month, to seniors currently stuck in the “donut hole” - as well as efforts to preserve Medicare and crack down on fraud. “The Affordable Care Act improves the health security of Wisconsin seniors through greater savings and better access to quality health care and gives us new tools to strengthen Medicare and fight fraud,” Secretary Sebelius said. “As some of the important early benefits of the new law take effect, it’s critical that seniors have accurate information. For example, beginning next week, $250 rebate checks will be mailed to eligible seniors enrolled in a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan who reached the donut hole on or before March 31, 2010. We look forward to continuing to work to ensure that seniors can take full advantage of these benefits and can also help us prevent Medicare fraud.” “Through national health care reform, we have a tremendous opportunity to build on our successes in Wisconsin,” Governor Doyle said. “I look forward to continuing to work with Secretary Sebelius and the Obama Administration, as well as our Congressional Delegation, as we move forward on national health care reform that will help cover more than 125,000 uninsured people in Wisconsin, will save taxpayers money, and help Wisconsin’s seniors afford prescription drugs.” The group also met with doctors and administrators, including CEO Dr. Jeff Thompson, at Gundersen Lutheran, addressed the staff briefly, and toured the Gundersen Lutheran Norma J. Vinger Center for Breast Care to observe their high quality, low-cost integrated health care delivery model. The health system served as a national model for high quality, low-cost care throughout the recent health care debate. With the help of Gundersen Lutheran and Mayo Health System hospitals in western Wisconsin, including Franciscan Skemp, Rep. Kind, and other members of the Quality Care Coalition were able to secure provisions in the health care bill to reimburse providers based on the quality of care delivered, transforming our health care system into one that puts quality before quantity, keeps patient interests in mind, and keeps costs under control. “Rep. Kind and I championed the pay-for-value provisions of the new health care law because they promote the kind of excellent coordinated care that Gunderson and other Midwest providers offer their patients. These reforms will incentivize doctors across the country to ensure seniors get better faster and stay healthier longer while saving taxpayer dollars on Medicare,” said Rep. Walz. “I’m grateful that the Secretary was able to join us today to share information about these improvements to Medicare with seniors and the doctors here at Gunderson who care for them.”"It was a great honor for Gundersen Lutheran staff members to have Secretary Sebelius and Congressman Kind visit,” said Dr. Jeff Thompson, CEO of Gundersen Lutheran Health System. “The ability to show her our work delivering innovative high quality care and share our goals for the future was a unique opportunity."The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law March 23, 2010 by President Obama. The groundbreaking legislation will expand health insurance to millions of Americans while putting an end to the worst insurance industry practices and incentivizing health care providers to adopt the high quality, low cost care models employed by Gundersen Lutheran, Mayo Clinic, and other leaders in the industry. More information about the law is available at www.healthreform.gov.
06.02.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today hosted the U.S. Ambassador to Laos, Ravic R. Huso, for a meeting with members of the local Hmong community. “Many district residents have family and friends who were affected by the January repatriation of the Lao Hmong by the Royal Thai Government,” said Rep Kind. “I am pleased that Ambassador Huso was able to visit western Wisconsin, hear from our local Hmong community, and address their concerns. His efforts will help us remain actively engaged in the most important issues and ensure we protect Hmong refugees as the resettle in Laos.”Ambassador Huso joined Rep. Kind for a discussion with local Hmong community members and leaders from across western Wisconsin. The group discussed issues of concern related to Laos, including future immigration, and many had questions regarding the recent repatriation of the Lao Hmong to Laos.“The safety of the recently repatriated Lao Hmong is very concerning. I will continue to be engaged in the topic, learning about the resettlement camps, hearing the safety concerns of those who have been recently moved, and speaking to government leaders to ensure the repatriated people are closely monitored and are treated fairly.”Rep. Kind sent a letter to the Government of Laos in January, expressing concern for the safety of the Lao Hmong who were repatriated by the Royal Thai Government. The visit by the Ambassador comes at a time when the local Hmong community is deeply concerned about relatives still in Laos.
05.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, voted today to help create and save American jobs, provide working families with tax cuts, and invest in American jobs through tax relief for businesses and investments in infrastructure. “It is my priority to put middle class families and small businesses first,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill does just that. Tax cuts and loan relief will help small businesses hire and grow and Build America Bonds will help western Wisconsin complete important infrastructure projects, spurring job creating in our communities. All this and it provides tax relief for American families in a way that is fiscally responsible.” The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, H.R. 4213, will support more than a million American jobs by helping restore credit to small businesses, extending the R&D tax credit, rebuilding American roads and bridges through Build America Bonds - of which western Wisconsin has received $71.24 million since the signing of the Recovery Act and which have supported more than 1.7 million jobs nationwide - and providing tax relief for millions of middle class American families. The bill also extends unemployment benefits for Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. The tax benefits to middle class Americans – property tax relief, state and local sales tax deductions, and college tuition deductions – are paid for by closing the tax loopholes that big businesses have exploited to ship jobs overseas and that allowed Wall Street billionaires to pay a much lower tax rate on their income. The bill also promotes corporate accountability for the oil industry, boosting the amount oil companies must pay into the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund – so taxpayers are never stuck with the bill for the risky practices of the industry. Through a provision authored by Rep. Kind, the bill also extends the disaster relief tax credits that provide for increased deductions for losses suffered after a disaster and deductions for recovery expenses. The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act includes provisions supported by over 125 key organizations, unions and non-profits, including the U.S. Conference of Mayors, AARP, the American Farm Bureau, the National Restaurant Association, and businesses in the R&D Tax Credit Coalition.
05.28.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Vice Chair of the New Democrat Coalition, today voted for significant investments in science, education and innovation in an effort to spur job growth and economic competitiveness. The bipartisan America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, H.R. 5116, will strengthen U.S. scientific and economic leadership, support employers, and create jobs through investments in science, innovation, and education. “The America COMPETES Reauthorization Act is an important investment in our long-term economic future and will help make sure our country remains the most innovative and creative in the world. It will strengthen science, technology, engineering, and math education, support basic research at our science agencies, universities and technical colleges and help foster innovation and creativity in our workforce—all of which are crucial to creating the jobs of the future, improving our quality of life, and ensuring our nation can compete and be a leader in a global economy.” The America COMPETES Reauthorization Act supports science and innovation to strengthen American competitiveness in a 21st century global economy. The bill creates jobs and supports manufacturers and industry by authorizing programs like Innovative Technology Federal Loan Guarantees to address the immediate need of small- and medium-sized manufacturers to access capital to become more efficient and stay competitive. The bill fosters innovation in clean energy research by doubling the funding for basic research programs over 10 years and authorizing the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy and Energy Innovation Hubs to help advance the U.S.’s transition to a clean energy economy and to support the growth of jobs and new sectors of the economy.The bill improves STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) Education to prepare students for the high-paying, highly-technical jobs of the future. It expands and strengthens STEM education programs, providing grants to increase the number and quality of students receiving degrees, improve STEM learning outcomes for all students; and increase participation in STEM fields by women and minorities to strengthen and diversify the workforce. “This bill is an effort to bring our economy to the next level, create the jobs of the future - and prepare us for those jobs – that’s what economic competitiveness and stability is all about. It will create and retain good jobs for Wisconsin and ensure a brighter future for our children.”The Act requires the Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy to submit a report to Congress and the President outlining a national competitiveness and innovation strategy to ensure we make the best investments in the above area. The report will lay out a strategy for strengthening the innovative and competitiveness capacity of the Federal Government, State, and local governments, institutes of higher education, and the private sector. Over 750 organizations have endorsed the legislation including the University of Wisconsin, 3M, Cummins Inc., Rockwell Automation, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Business Roundtable, the Council on Competitiveness, the Association of American Universities, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, and the National Venture Capital Association.
05.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), a senior member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, grilled the Chairman and President of British Petroleum America and President and CEO of Transocean over the recent oil spill off the coast of the United States during this week’s House of Representatives Committee on Natural Resources Oversight Hearing. “As a former special prosecutor, I found the testimony by British Petroleum and Transocean outrageous and less than helpful,” said Rep. Kind. “As the heads of major companies, I find it astonishing that they haven’t talked to anyone with first-hand knowledge as to what went wrong and why. That lack of transparency may work for their corporate attorneys but doesn’t serve the American public well. It is inexcusable that they had no plans to deal with a disaster of this magnitude.” British Petroleum has had very little public response to the disaster, generating much anger. House of Representative committees have held and plan to hold more than two dozen oversight and investigative hearings on this disastrous oil spill to get to the bottom of what occurred. “British Petroleum’s lack of transparency and accountability for what has happened is unacceptable. They are hanging by a thread if they hope to do any more business off the coast of the United States. British Petroleum must step up and take care of this mess by plugging the gusher, mitigating the damage and working with state and local communities to clean up this disaster, and by being open and honest with the American people,” said Rep. Kind. Kind also questioned the executives about future requirements to drill a relief well at the same time as the original well, as a precaution for this type of failure. He did not get a response from British Petroleum or Transocean. As Congress learns more from investigations and oversight hearings, they plan to increase transparency or and enact stricter safety requirements for the oil industry.
05.26.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) in honor of small business week, today announced a new resource available on his Congressional website, the Small Business Resource Center. “I want to thank our small businesses for the role they play in our local communities,” said Rep. Kind. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They are generating 65 percent of jobs, serve as important anchors in our towns and villages, and are vital to our economic recovery. I hope our small businesses in western Wisconsin find this resource informative and helpful.” The Small Business Resource Center provides information and links to resources about current legislation affecting small businesses, new tax benefits, the impacts of the new health care reform bill, and financial information as well as other tools. The online portal is meant to provide small business owners and employees useful information and resources for continued growth and stability. “I will continue working to provide our small businesses every possible resource to weather this economic climate and drive dollars back into our local economies. I am committed to working on behalf of small businesses not only in western Wisconsin but across the country.”Click here for the Small Business Resource Center.
05.19.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced today that the Village of Gays Mills has been selected to receive $4.4 million from U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program. The grant will help fund long-term disaster recovery resulting from the 2008 floods. “The people and businesses of Gays Mill will undoubtedly benefit from this federal support,” said Rep. Kind. “Their determination and dedication to rebuilding the community has been inspiring. This support will only help facilitate the recovery process and ensure the community has resources it needs to continue to rebuild and grow.”The Village of Gays Mills is currently making progress in relocating the community to safe ground. New rental housing will be ready in June and some streets and sewer and water infrastructure is in place in the new business park. Funding received includes: • $ 720,000 for streets, utilities, storm water management • $ 1,030,000 for the Community Commerce Center/ Business Park• $ 1,500,000 for Business Assistance to relocate flood damaged businesses. Funds can be used for new structures, equipment and demolition of flood-damaged structures.• $ 1,000,000 for relocation of owner occupied households• $ 70,000 for Acquisition and Relocation (FEMA Buyouts) • $ 80,000 for Village Housing Rehab“This is a pivotal amount of money that will make a tremendous difference in the plans for Gay’s Mills’ recovery and for the whole valley,” said Julie Henley, Village of Gays Mills Recovery Coordinator. “This is very good news”Previously, Gays Mills has received $3,910,150 in assistance for the following activities:• $558,100 for housing rehabilitation and buyouts• $517,000 for land acquisition• $1,130,000 for infrastructure at the new site• $678,250 for fire station/EMS Building and the Community Commerce Center• $950,000 for affordable rental housing
05.10.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), this week met with student leaders at the University of Wisconsin – Platteville, University of Wisconsin - Stout, and University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire, to discuss the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college.“For 35 years, the government has subsidized private lenders to provide student loans while also guaranteeing the payment of those loans,” said Rep. Kind. “Unfortunately, this system no longer works. The new loan program can be run at a lower cost, saving taxpayers money, and will be more stable, guaranteeing students access to aid in any economy. I’m pleased to be able to visit with students to let them know exactly how this will benefit them.”The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which became law in March, will not only help a student graduate with less debt, but eases the financial aid application process, stabilizes the student loan program, invests in education, and helps build a stronger, more competitive American economy. The Act converts all new federal loans to them more stable Direct Lending program, as opposed to private banks. This program, facilitated by the federal government will save taxpayers $61 billion and reduce the deficit by $10 billion over the 10 years. The savings translates into a $62 million investment in Pell Grants in the Third Congressional District alone.The Act also facilitates larger Pell Grants and the expansion of low-cost loans. Funds available under this bill will help provide needed support for the growing number of student aid applicants and help students graduate with less debt. The law increases the maximum annual Pell Grant scholarship to $5,550 in 2010 and to $5,975 by 2017. Starting in 2013, the scholarship will be increase with the cost of living.Monthly payments on federal student loans will be lowered and the debt forgiveness timeline shortened. In Wisconsin, this Act invests $8 million in college access and completion support programs to help increase financial literacy and help institutions retain and graduate students. The law also places an increased emphasis on partnerships between colleges, businesses and job training programs.Financial aid programs will also be made worry-free and will operate in student’s best interest. Under the Act, federal student loans will be more stable and access to low-cost student loans will not change due to fluctuations in the financial market.
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to boost the economy by creating nearly 170,000 jobs, reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and saving American families $9 billion on energy bills over 10 years. The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act of 2010, H.R. 5019, would provide rebates to homeowners who install energy-saving products and reduce energy use in their homes.“This bill will save consumers money, create jobs, and enhance our national security by reducing consumption,” said Rep Kind. “It will help put the people of western Wisconsin back to work, lower the monthly energy expenses for hard-working families by up to 30 percent, and make our nation more energy independent.”The bill features two levels of rebates that will help an estimated 3 million American homeowners. The Silver Star program would provide up-front rebates of up to $3,000 for the installation of proven energy-saving technologies, such as insulation, duct sealing, window and door improvements, air sealing, and advanced water heaters. The Gold Star program rewards homeowners with up to $8,000 for conducting a comprehensive energy audit and substantially reducing energy use at home. The rebates will be made available by retail and service companies such as hardware stores, home improvement chains and local contractors. Remodeling and weatherization could save up to one third of average household energy costs.This bill would boost construction and manufacturing industries in the short term by creating jobs immediately. More than 90% of the materials and products used in eligible measures are made in the U.S.“This bill will also reenergize American innovation and help make the investments we need to grow and build the clean energy industry,” said Rep. Kind.The bill builds on previous tax credits for energy-efficient home improvements made possible through the Recovery Act. Through 2010, homeowners can receive a tax credit for 30 percent of the cost of these improvements, up to $1,500. The Home Star Energy Retrofit Act has received bipartisan support, and has been endorsed by a broad range of business, labor, environmental, and consumer groups, including the National Association of Manufacturers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and the National Association of Home Builders.
05.06.2010	Washington, DC. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) along with Reps. Mary Bono Mack (R-CA); Earl Blumenauer (D-OR); and Marcia Fudge(D-OH), Nancy Brown, CEO of the American Heart Association; Pam Bailey, CEO of the Grocery Manufacturers Association; Richard Wolford, Chairman, President and CEO of Del Monte Foods and Chairman of GMA; Penny Lee, Executive Director of the Campaign to End Obesity; and Audrey Tayse Haynes, Senior Vice President of YMCA, today unveiled recently authored bipartisan legislation to comprehensively fight obesity, the Healthy CHOICES Act, H.R. 5209, during an event on Capitol Hill. “Making the healthy choice the easy choice for our families is essential to ensuring our quality of life,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Easier access to the tools and education to prevent and treat obesity; affordable, nutritious food to promote a balanced diet; and an increased emphasis on physical activity to maintain our overall health is critical to achieving a healthy lifestyle. I am pleased to work on legislation that helps provide the opportunities that meet the needs of busy American families.” “Rising obesity in our country is threatening the health and quality of life of far too many Americans and is costing our health care system billions of dollars,” said Rep. Mary Bono Mack. “It is time we take a stand that will help educate our young people and their families and make it easier to make informed, healthy choices, which will reduce health care costs in the future. I am proud to join my colleagues Congressman Kind, Congressman Blumenauer and Congresswoman Fudge in this important effort that will promote wellness education and encourage physical activity that will help Americans of all ages be more productive in school and in the work place and live healthier, happier lives.”“Fighting the obesity epidemic requires a broad-based approach to both exercise and healthy foods – two ingredients vital to a healthy lifestyle,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. “By investing in better walking and biking routes, kids and adults can get exercise while commuting to school and work. We are also providing families with more nutritional information, so they can make smart decisions about the meals they cook and pack for lunch. With support from a diverse coalition, the Healthy CHOICES Act will help improve public health as well as community livability.”"Americans want to be healthy, live longer, and have more time with the people they love,” said Rep. Marcia Fudge. “This bill makes it much easier for people to make healthy choices by addressing simple barriers to wellness. For example, it is not uncommon for inner cities to lack grocery stores, and, as a result, not have fresh produce and meats. I’ve included language that will provide incentives for corner stores to diversify their products, so that all Americans have access to healthy foods. I’m proud to join my colleagues in this important effort.” According to the Center for Disease Control 73 percent of adults and 43 percent of children in this country are overweight, obese, or severely obese. And in 2008, 32 states in America reported obesity rates of 25 percent or more. The Healthy CHOICES Act (The Healthy Communities through Helping to Offer Incentives and Choices to Everyone in Society Act) is the first legislation of its kind that brings together the grocery industry, the health care industry, and government to comprehensively fight the obesity epidemic. The Act is also significant in that it takes a comprehensive approach to combating obesity with provisions that address various sources contributing to unhealthy lifestyles. Provisions include: increasing access to the tools and education to make healthy choices updating nutrition guidelines for child and adult care food programs, increasing access to nutritional information and healthy, affordable foods in rural and low-income urban areas, improving access to and opportunity for physical activity for adults and children, and providing more opportunities to participate in outdoor physical activities, including as a means of transportation. “Obesity is one the nation’s most pressing public health challenges,” said Pamela G. Bailey, President and CEO of the Grocery Manufacturers Association. “All of us – industry, government, parents, schools and non-governmental organizations share the same goal of solving obesity within a generation. And we agree on how to get there. GMA and its members are committed to doing our part by providing parents and children with healthy choices, promoting healthy eating habits, enhancing nutrition knowledge, and supporting new opportunities for physical activity at school, in the work place and in our neighborhoods. Each of us has a role to play and if we all do our part, we can get the job done. We applaud Representatives Kind, Bono Mack, Blumenauer and Fudge for introducing the Healthy CHOICES Act. Their extraordinary leadership on this sensible, science based legislation will help promote healthy eating habitats and provide new opportunities for physical activity.” "The U.S. is paying heavily for the obesity epidemic which is the result of inactivity and the overconsumption of unhealthy food and sugary beverages," said Nancy Brown, CEO of the American Heart Association. "The Healthy CHOICES Act and its far-reaching policies will help target and address this growing health concern by providing adults and children with the resources and information they need to make healthier lifestyle choices."“This legislation reflects thoughtful and effective policies that can help Americans reach and sustain a healthy weight, and we are eager to partner with Congress to advance this much-needed measure,” said Penny Lee, Executive Director of the Campaign to End Obesity. “Obesity contributes to the prevalence of more than 60 chronic diseases and taxpayers, governments and businesses spend billions on obesity-related conditions each year, including an estimated $147 billion in medical costs.”“Strong action at the community level is critical to building environments rich in support of healthy living and helping to make the healthy choice the easy choice,” said Audrey Tayse Haynes, Senior Vice President and Chief Government Affairs Officer of YMCA of the USA. “The Healthy CHOICES Act will provide essential resources, tools and opportunities to so many communities to do just that. YMCAs are committed to improving our nation’s health and well-being and we look forward to working with Representative Kind and his colleagues to empower individuals of all ages to live healthy, active lives.” The Healthy CHOICES Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: Access to Wholistic and Productive Living Institute, Inc., American Association on Health and Disability, American Beverage Association, American Frozen Food Institute, American Heart Association, Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare, Campaign to End Obesity, First Focus Campaign for Children, Grocery Manufacturers Association, Healthcare Leadership Council, International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association, National Association for Sports and Physical Education, National Association of Children's Hospitals, National Athletic Trainers' Association (NATA), National Center for Children in Poverty, National Coalition for Promoting Physical Activity, National Wildlife Federation, Nemours, New England Alliance for Children’s Health, Papa Ola Lokahi (Native Hawaiian Health Board), Premier Healthcare Alliance, REACH Charleston and Georgetown Diabetes Coalition, REACH U.S. SEA-CEED, Snack Food Association, STOP Obesity Alliance, The Disparities Solutions Center at Massachusetts General Hospital, The Praxis Project, The Youth Becoming Healthy (YBH) Project, Weight Management & Eating Disorders Program, Washington University School of Medicine, YMCA.
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, May 12, 2010 from 7:10-8:10 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on current legislation, including the economy and jobs among other topics. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 7:10 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 877-269-7289 and using the code 15311.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement in response to the news of Rep. Dave Obey’s retirement. “The State of Wisconsin and the entire nation are losing a great public servant with the retirement of Congressman Dave Obey. A strong leader and dedicated watchdog, Dave always made sure Wisconsin was treated fairly and worked tirelessly to put working families and common people first, over powerful special interests. Dave leaves a legacy of what is good, decent and honest in public service.”
05.03.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), former co-chair and active member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, was recently recognized as Legislator of the Year by the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF) for his support, leadership and outstanding commitment to issues related to work on behalf of sportsmen. “As an outdoor enthusiast and avid hunter, I savor every chance that I am afforded to enjoy the outdoors with my family,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud to win this award and I will continue to advocate for legislation that protects the rights of outdoorsmen across the country. I will not only continue to support the sporting tradition but ensure that there is legislation in place to preserve wildlife, hunting and fishing opportunities for years to come.” Rep. Kind was selected as Legislator of the Year for his work in the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, specifically his legislation (HR 510) to bring parity to the federal excise tax payment schedule. The firearms and ammunition excise tax (FAET) is a major source of wildlife conservation funding in the United States. Passage of an excise tax reform bill will allow the firearms and ammunition industry to pay the FAET on a quarterly basis, the same payment schedule on which every other industry supporting conservation pays the federal excise tax.“Rep. Kind’s leadership in the House of Representatives has helped to ensure and protect our hunting traditions and firearms freedoms,” said Lawrence G. Keane, NSSF senior vice president and general counsel. “The NSSF is pleased to honor Congressman Kind and looks forward to continuing a constructive dialogue with him on public policy matters affecting the industry.” Rep. Kind is an active outdoorsman and enjoys hunting white tail deer and turkey with his sons on their family farm in western Wisconsin. Rep. Kind and his son, Johnny, filmed a turkey hunt for the NSSF’s Step Outside TV, which will air over the summer and into the fall.The NSSF is the trade association of the firearms industry, whose self-described mission is to “promote, protect and preserve hunting and shooting sports.” Formed in 1961, the NSSF is comprised of more than 5,500 manufacturers, distributors, firearms retailers, shooting ranges, sportsmen’s organizations and publishers.
04.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to save U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars by cracking down on waste, fraud, and abuse in government programs. The bipartisan IMPROVE Acquisition Act, H.R. 5013, will reform the defense acquisition system to save American taxpayers $135 billion over the next five years and make sure that the men and women who are risking their lives to safeguard our country get the proper equipment they need to do their jobs and protect themselves on the battlefield.“It is our duty to protect our men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill provides them the equipment they need do their jobs safely so that they can return home to their families as soon as possible. At the same time, it increases accountability in our government and helps eliminate wasteful and inefficient spending. Our brave troops have done a terrific job under difficult and dangerous conditions and we owe it to them to have an efficient and honest process for acquiring the equipment they need.”The IMPROVE Acquisition Act cleans up waste, fraud, and abuse in the defense acquisition system through four key common sense reforms. It creates a better accountability system, establishes an auditable financial management system at the Department of Defense, improves the management of the acquisition workforce, and expands and strengthens the industrial base.A second measure, the bipartisan Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, targets nearly $100 billion a year in improper government payments that result from poor oversight on the part of federal agencies. This legislation improves transparency in government agencies, prevents improper payments, requires agencies to recover overpayments, and holds top managers at agencies accountable for improper payments or overpayments.“Both of these bills will cut wasteful spending, saving taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. We must continue taking steps to cut irresponsible spending and to make sure we don’t pass huge deficits on to our children and grandchildren.”
04.27.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today continued to champion fiscal responsibility and discipline by voting to block the annual cost of living increases for Members of Congress for 2011, H.R. 5146, saving taxpayer dollars. This is another step Rep. Kind has taken to lead America in a new direction by working to build a strong foundation for our economy. “In a time when many Americans are out of work and struggling to make ends meet, it is just plain careless for Members of Congress to consider taking a pay raise,” said Rep. Kind. “I have always voted against these raises because they are fiscally irresponsible. Our focus right now must be on getting people back to work, strengthening our economy, and reducing the deficit.”In 1989, Congress approved a process that provides lawmakers with an automatic pay increase unless they vote specifically to reject the raise. Last year, Rep. Kind was successful in blocking the FY 2010 pay raise after voting for similar legislation, H.R. 156, which also garnered bipartisan support. “I have long been committed to fiscal responsibility in government decision making. We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenge and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I learned well from Senator Proxmire that there it too much waste, fraud and abuse in the budget and that we need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.” Rep. Kind consistently opposes the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and gives back a portion of his Congressional budget each year to reduce the deficit. This year’s giveback totaled $118,278, for a sum of $1.15 million since he first took office. In addition, Rep Kind continues to lead the effort for earmark reform, forgoing requests in 2008 and 2009 and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process. In total, Rep. Kind opposed $12.1 billion worth of earmarks in 2009.
04.22.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today with U.S. Reps. Zach Wamp (R-TN), George Miller (D-CA), chair of the House Education and Labor Committee, fitness guru Richard Simmons, and representatives from the American Heart Association, Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association (SGMA), and the National Association for Sport and Physical Education (NASPE) celebrated the passage of the Fitness Integrated with Teaching (FIT) Kids Act, which combats childhood obesity by strengthening physical education programs in schools across the country. The FIT Kids Act, H.R. 1585, which passed the House of Representatives yesterday, renews the emphasis on physical education in schools. The Act would work to ensure kids are active during the school day and are taught to be personally responsible for their health. The legislation would engage parents and the public by requiring all school districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard. In addition, the Act would fund research to examine the link between children’s health and their academic achievement and recommend effective and innovative ways to get physical education back into schools.“This bill gets to the simple truth: in order to develop healthy minds, you need healthy bodies,” said Rep. Ron Kind, co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Providing increased physical education in public schools will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life.”“Physical Education has been squeezed out of our schools and it needs to be welcomed back in with open arms,” said Rep. Zach Wamp. “Research shows that children who get a good healthy dose of cardiovascular exercise have better brain functions, test scores and sleep patterns, along with an increased quality of life. Children who are physically well do much better in schools and avoid the chronic health consequences of a sedentary lifestyle, such as type 2 diabetes, obesity and hypertension. The FIT Kids Act will help provide the research and information on what works best to incorporate P.E. into schools. This can be shared with parents, teachers and school directors so they can help our next generation lead an active lifestyle.”“With one in three children in this country considered overweight or obese, childhood obesity has become a major threat to our nation’s physical and economic health,” said Rep. George Miller, chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee. “The First Lady has rightfully recognized the need to address this epidemic and this bill complements the work of Congress and represents a first step toward improving the health and well-being of our schoolchildren. By empowering parents, schools and students to lead healthier lives and become more physically active, we can help our kids grow, thrive, and succeed in school and in life.”"In my heart I knew this day would come,” said Richard Simmons. “For the last three and a half years I have worked so hard with my team to make the FIT Kids Act a reality. We will continue to work hard so it will also pass in the Senate, and on the day that President Obama signs the bill in to law, he'll give me one of the pens. I look forward to sharing with he and the First Lady all of my ideas on how we can get our kids more fit." “House passage of FIT Kids Act reinforces the American Heart Association’s efforts to improve the health and wellness of children,” said Nancy Brown, CEO of the American Heart Association. “With childhood obesity still a growing national health concern, this bill brings us one step closer to making daily, quality physical education a reality for all America’s kids.” “The National Football League's youth health and fitness campaign, NFL PLAY 60, recognizes the importance of daily physical activity and encourages children to lead active lifestyles,” said Roger Goodell, NFL Commissioner. “The Fit Kids Act shares that goal and is an important step in strengthening physical education programs in our schools. “Wisconsin’s educators care about their students and we support efforts to teach them the importance of living healthy lives,” said Mary Bell, President of the Wisconsin Education Association Council. “The classroom is an essential part of the solution when it comes to fighting the growing trend of childhood obesity, along with home and community. By ensuring schools have the resources they need to offer strong, comprehensive physical education and related programs, our entire state will benefit right along with the students.”“The University of Wisconsin – La Crosse has a long tradition in the education of physical education teachers and has a firm understanding of the importance of physical activity and health,” said Mark Gibson, Director of Athletic Training at UW-L. “The Department of Exercise and Sport Science strives to serve as a catalyst for expanding the scope of physical activity throughout the nation. The passage of the FIT Kids Act is a required step to fundamentally change the future health of the United States population.”With the continued rise in childhood obesity, it is important that we make physical activity a bigger priority in schools,” said Bill Sells, Vice President of the Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association. “Active children are much more likely to be active adults. The Fit Kids Act will be a key part of the solution to sedentary lifestyles by getting America’s young people moving to encourage lifelong activity and health.”“The passage of the Fit Kids Act supports NASPE’s mission by disseminating crucial information to parents and the public about the quality and quantity of physical education being offered in our schools,” said Dr. Fran Cleland, NASPE Past President. “This information will lead to providing the nation’s students with highly qualified teachers who implement best practices and innovative programming and instilling students with the knowledge, skills and confidence to lead a healthy and active lifestyle.”The FIT Kids Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: The American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education, Afterschool Alliance, American Association for Physical Activity and Recreation, American School Health Association, Healthy Schools Campaign, National Association of Health Education Centers, National Association for County and City Health Officials, National Recreation and Park Association, Obesity Action Coalition, Researchers Against Inactivity-related Disorders, SPARK, Shaping America’s Health, Trust for America’s Health, American College of Sports Medicine, and the YMCA.Childhood Obesity in AmericaChildhood obesity in the United States has reached epidemic proportions. Recent studies indicate that 17 percent of 6 to 11 year olds and 17.6 percent of 12 to 19 year olds are considered obese. Furthermore, 33 percent of 6 to 11 year olds and 34 percent of 12 to 19 year olds are overweight; these rates have roughly doubled since 1980.Overweight children and teens are much more likely to develop cardiovascular disease, type II diabetes, asthma, sleep apnea, and various forms of cancer. This is a costly expense to our health care system; obesity related medical costs totaled $147 billion in 2008. Researchers suggest that the childhood obesity epidemic is largely due to a decline in regular physical activity and a diet high in empty and fat-laden calories. A lack of regular physical activity not only hurts a child’s health, it can also affect his/her academic development, as research also shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers. Increasing physical activity is the most important component of any initiative to combat childhood obesity and promote the health of students. Unfortunately, many schools are being forced to cut back on PE programs because of lack of resources and competing academic demands and testing. Between 1991 and 2003, enrollment of high school students in daily PE classes fell from 41.6% to 28.4%.
04.19.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, announced the winners of the 14th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest at a reception April 10 at the Black River Falls public library. “The competition drew entries from across the area, a testament to the artistic talent in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “I am happy to honor these top student artists and thank all of the participants for their impressive contributions.”The winners are: 1st PlaceZoe Fay, La Crosse Logan “Anna”2nd PlacePa Cha Yang, La Crosse Logan “My Friend Tshia”3rd PlaceThird PlaceLeslie Bates, La Crosse Logan “Self-Portrait”4th PlaceBrittany Johnson, La Farge “A Walk in my Shoes”Honorable MentionsTyler Phillips, La Farge “Valleys of the Skin”Hailey McCollum, La Farge “Bursts of Sunshine”Katelyn Strait, La Farge “Life on a Farm”Samantha Herke, La Farge “Reflections”Nicholas Olson, La Crosse Central“Star Gazing”Jenna Falk, La Farge “Minnie”Lea Ann Everson, La Farge “A Wrinkle in Time”Nadean Marron, La Farge “Bird of Paradise”Jemimah Vettrus, Mondovi “Alaskan Landscape”Jay Thomas, La Farge “Sunset Rose”The first place entry, Zoe Fay’s “Anna”, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while third and fourth place works will be hang in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of the region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western Wisconsin.
04.15.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, recently reintroduced legislation to encourage more small businesses to offer retirement savings plans to their employees. The Small Businesses Add Value for Employees (SAVE) Act of 2010 would increase incentives for small businesses to start SIMPLE IRA and 401(k) retirement plans, providing more flexibility and reducing administrative burdens. The bill is cosponsored by Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), also a member of the Ways and Means Committee.“A comfortable retirement is something everyone seeks to achieve – whether they work for a big corporation or a small business,” said Rep. Kind. “But the majority of small businesses aren’t able to offer any retirement savings plans to employees, not just in a down economy, but because it is often complicated and costly. This bill will provide the incentives for small businesses to offer savings plans, allowing workers to accumulate retirement savings and helping small businesses attract and retain employees.”Small business owners often wear multiple hats and simply do not have enough time and resources to devote to administering a complicated financial product. According to a survey of small businesses conducted by Harris Interactive, only 14 percent of small businesses offer a 401(k) plan and 63 percent do not offer any form of retirement benefits at all. SIMPLE IRA and 401(k) plans were created in 1996 to address the need for an easy way to administer savings plans for small businesses. Since then, many small businesses have taken advantage of SIMPLE plans, with nearly two million workers now covered by one. However, the rules governing SIMPLE plans need updating to ensure they continue to be attractive for small business owners, and there is great potential for growth in retirement plan coverage using SIMPLEs as the foundation. H.R. 4742 would modify the successful features of the SIMPLE plan by:Offering newly participating employers a tax credit for 50 percent of the start-up costs, and a one-time $25 tax credit for every employee who is enrolled in the savings program. Creating voluntary automatic IRAs for employers. Removing the higher penalty on early SIMPLE IRA distributions. Raising the annual contribution limit for SIMPLE plans to the same level as 401(k) plans. Allowing SIMPLE plan participants to rollover their retirement assets. Allowing businesses with fewer than 100 employees to pool together to offer a single retirement program for their employees through the Multiple Small Employer Plan.The SAVE Act provides simplified and voluntary options for small-business owners to offer retirement savings plans,” said Susan Eckerly, Executive Vice President of Federal Public Policy for the National Federation of Independent Businesses. “Today, small businesses that want to set up these plans face enormous regulatory hurdles and this legislation will help deal with some of the challenges they face.”“The SIMPLE IRA can be even more effective in getting small employers to maintain retirement plans for their employees if the reforms that Rep. Kind is proposing are enacted into law,” said Liz Varley with the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. “Through a voluntary incentive, the burdens on small businesses will be minimized and more people will be able to take advantage of tax-deferred retirement plans. We look forward to working with Rep. Kind to advance this important legislation to help small employers and their employees retire comfortably.”
04.14.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today recognized findings from a new report highlighting tax cuts included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. According to the Citizens for Tax Justice (CTJ), a public policy organization specializing in federal tax issues, “the major tax cuts enacted in the 2009 economic stimulus bill actually reduced federal income taxes for tax year 2009 for 98% of all working families and individuals.” “Most people don’t realize that tax cuts are the biggest individual piece of the Recovery Act,” said Rep. Kind. “President Obama and Congress gave 95% of working Americans one of the largest tax cuts in history through the Recovery Act. And as you file your 2009 income taxes, you may qualify for a series of other tax cuts. And if you missed out on any of these tax cuts, there is still time to amend your 2009 return.”Taxpayers in western Wisconsin and across the county can benefit from tax savings including:• Nearly $100 Billion - Tax relief provided through the Recovery Act so far that has gone directly in the pockets of working families.• Nearly $3,000 - The record average tax refund taxpayers are seeing this tax season.• Nearly 10% - The percentage average tax refunds are up this year - something the IRS says is largely due to Recovery Act tax credits.• 95% - The percentage of working families benefiting from the Recovery Act's Making Work Pay tax credit, making it the broadest tax credit in the history of the country. • Up to $2,500 - The expanded amount eligible taxpayers can collect with the American Opportunity Credit to help cover college expanses thanks to the Recovery Act.• Up to $8,000 - The amount new homebuyers can collect this year for purchasing their first home thanks to the Recovery Act's expansion of the First-Time Homebuyers Tax Credit. $6,500 - the amount qualified non-first time homebuyers can collect. • 700,000 - The number of new homeowners who qualified for the First-Time Homebuyers Tax Credit through the Recovery Act in 2009.• Up to $1,500 - The amount homeowners can collect this year on improvements made to their homes like energy-efficient windows, doors and insulation thanks to Recovery Act tax credits.Small businesses and family farms also benefit from the Recovery Act. The Recovery Act spurs investments in small businesses by cutting the capital gains tax on investors in small businesses who buy stock (in the next two years) and hold it for more than five years. The Act also extends enhanced small business expensing, which doubles the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2009 from $125,000 to $250,000 and increases cash flow by providing a 5-year carryback of 2008 net operating losses for small businesses. “According to the Citizens for Tax Justice, working people in Wisconsin received $1,138, on average, from these breaks. These tax cuts are easing the burden on families, small businesses, and family farms struggling to make ends meet, while injecting more demand into the economy to create jobs in western Wisconsin.”
04.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Village of Gays Mills has been selected to receive $4,313,650 in Economic Development Administration funds, from the U.S. Department of Commerce, for the construction of new geothermal and community biomass heating systems, road, water, and sewer infrastructure. “Investing in our rural towns is important to community life and is essential in ensuring continued economic development,” said Rep. Kind. “This project will not only advance and repair the infrastructure of Gays Mills, but it will also help spur job creation in the area.”In 2008, the Village of Gays Mills suffered from flash floods that inhibited economic development. The new construction will support commercial and industrial growth on two sites within the floodplain. Existing businesses will be able to relocate to safer sites, new businesses will be incubated, and the region’s food processing cluster can be developed.“We really appreciate this funding and know it will be put to good use improving our local infrastructure,” said Village President Larry McCann. The project, titled the Disaster Recovery Project – Construction of Infrastructure for Commerce and Industry, will fund three years of salary for a central business district manager to help the commercial district initiative succeed. The project is also anticipated to create 300 jobs, retain 100 jobs, and leverage $5 million in private investments. The Economic Development Administration (EDA) serves as a venture capital resource to meet the economic development needs of distressed communities throughout the United States. EDA's mission is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy.
04.13.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) urges residents of western Wisconsin to fill out and mail back their 2010 Census forms by April 16th. Every 10 years the U.S. collects information to pinpoint the changes in the community and determine the allocation of federal funds for public services and infrastructure. “In order to secure funding for our communities, we must count everyone,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Please join me in filling out the census to help our schools, libraries, transportation services, construction projects and other community programs. A few minutes of your time will ensure that your community receives the resources and services it needs.” This year marks one of the shortest census forms in history, asking only 10 questions that require less than 10 minutes to complete. The census is conducted every 10 years and consists of questions about the number of people living in your home and demographic information about them. Census forms must be mailed back by this Friday, April 16. Constituents who have not received the 2010 Census can go to their local libraries to fill out a form. For additional information about the 2010 Census, please click here.
04.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced that the City of Viroqua has been selected to receive a $90,000 Rural Business Enterprise Grant (RBEG) provided through the U.S. Department of Agriculture and funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “I am pleased to see this funding for business development coming to western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and need assistance to weather this economy. This funding will surely assist area businesses in accessing capitol and help spur growth and create jobs in Viroqua.”The City of Viroqua will use the rural development funds to establish a revolving loan fund, which will help promote business development and growth in the area. The loan will also improve access to capital for small and emerging private businesses and aims to create and save nine jobs. “This grant will help give an extra boost to small businesses looking to expand an idea or grow their existing business,” said Matt Giese, city administrator for Viroqua. “The grant will help Viroqua businesses in need of capital.” The purpose of the RBEG program is to finance and facilitate the development of small and emerging private business enterprises in rural areas through grants to public bodies, nonprofits, and federally recognized Indian Tribal groups. This includes starting and operating revolving loan funds, business incubators, and industrial parks. Grant funds may also be used to acquire and develop land and construct buildings, plants, equipment, access streets and roads, parking areas, and utility and service extensions.
03.31.2010	Washington, DC. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today held a press conference at Chippewa Valley Technical College to discuss the recently passed health care reform bill and how it affects western Wisconsin. Rep. Kind was joined by local health care providers, Dr. Randall Linton, President and CEO of Luther Midelfort, David Fish, President and CEO of St. Joseph’s Hospital, and Dr. Aron Adkins, a member of the elected leadership at Marshfield Clinic. A local advocate from AARP also discussed how the bill affects seniors.“Health care reform offers stability and security to families who are satisfied with their health insurance and provides choices for those who aren’t,” said Rep. Kind. “It provides increased access to stable care that is affordable for individuals, families, and businesses and ensures we reward the providers who are delivering the highest quality of care. Reform ensures the sustainability of our health care system and guarantees we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.” "With the President’s signature last week on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, we are committed to assist in any way we can with the effective implementation of the new law as well as the development of future patient-centered health care reform efforts,” said Dr. Linton, President and CEO of Luther Midelfort. “We believe that the new health reform law contains provisions which are aligned with our principles for reform – namely insurance for all Americans and provisions to pay more for value in health care – better health care outcomes at lower cost. This will begin to move us toward a system that provides all Americans with quality care at affordable costs."“We are committed to working with physicians, other providers and government leaders to improve access and quality of service, while containing costs,” said David Fish, President and CEO of St. Joseph's Hospital, Chippewa Falls.Passage of health care reform increases access to affordable, stable coverage for the 29,500 uninsured residents in the Third Congressional District and allows the 9,000 individuals in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions to get the coverage they are currently denied. It provides tax credits and other assistance to up to 182,000 families and 15,700 small businesses in western Wisconsin to help them afford coverage. Reform also improves Medicare for 111,000 beneficiaries in the district. Passage of health care reform protects 1,000 families in western Wisconsin from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs and allows 66,000 young adults to obtain coverage under their parent’s insurance plans. In addition, health care reform transforms our health care system into one that delivers higher quality care at a lower cost, eliminating waste in the system and increasing the quality of care for all Americans. “On behalf of the physicians and staff of the Marshfield Clinic I would like to thank Congressman Kind for his vision of what health care reform may ultimately become and his persistence in holding his colleagues steadfast to that ideal, restructuring the Medicare program to align reimbursement with value and eliminate the disparities and unfairness in the payment systems,” said Dr. Aron Adkins, who is a member of the elected leadership at Marshfield Clinic. “We know this is only the beginning and difficult choices will be necessary to continue to address the high costs of health care. We look forward to continuing to work closely with you to bring this to fruition.”“We are absolutely thrilled with this legislation and thank Congressman Kind for his courageous vote on health care reform,” said Jim Flaherty, Spokesperson for AARP Wisconsin. “AARP has been pushing for quality, affordable, accessible health care for all Americans since its inception over 50 years ago. We believe Medicare will be strengthened by this law and prescription medication made more affordable.”
03.31.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, will announce the winners and host displays of all entries in the 14th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest, Saturday, April 10 at an open house from 1:00 - 2:30 p.m. at the Black River Falls Public Library. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of the region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western Wisconsin. This year’s competition had nearly 75 entries from schools across the Third Congressional District. An open house, held Saturday, April 10 from 1:00 - 2:30 p.m. at the Black River Falls Public Library, will feature all submitted artwork as well as a ceremony honoring the competition winners. Rep. and Mrs. Kind will award first, second, and honorable mention awards to students at 1:30p.m. The first place entry will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. The competition winner will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring these student artists. The second place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office and two honorable mention choices will be hang in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. WHAT: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind and Mrs. Tawni Kind Announce 2010 Congressional Art Competition winners; all works on displayWHERE: Black River Falls Public Library - 222 Fillmore Street, Black River FallsWHEN: Saturday, April 10, 1:00-2:30p.m., ceremony beginning at 1:30 p.m.
03.30.2010	Washington, DC. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today held a press conference at the La Crosse Medical Health Science Consortium to discuss the recently passed health care reform bill and how it affects western Wisconsin. Rep. Kind was joined by local health care providers, Dr. Nesse, President and CEO of Franciscan Skemp Healthcare and Dr. Thompson, CEO of Gundersen Lutheran. A local advocate from AARP and a small business owner also discussed how the bill affects seniors as well as small business owners and employees.“Health care reform offers stability and security to families who are satisfied with their health insurance and provides choices for those who aren’t,” said Rep. Kind. “It provides increased access to stable care that is affordable for individuals, families, and businesses and ensures we reward the providers who are delivering the highest quality of care. Reform ensures the sustainability of our health care system and guarantees we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.” "With the President’s signature last week on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, we are committed to assist in any way we can with the effective implementation of the new law as well as the development of future patient-centered health care reform efforts,” said Dr. Nesse, President and CEO of Franciscan Skemp Healthcare. “We believe that the new health reform law contains provisions which are aligned with our principles for reform – namely insurance for all Americans and provisions to pay more for value in health care – better health care outcomes at lower cost. This will begin to move us toward a system that provides all Americans with quality care at affordable costs."Passage of health care reform increases access to affordable, stable coverage for the 29,500 uninsured residents in the Third Congressional District and allows the 9,000 individuals in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions to get the coverage they are currently denied. It provides tax credits and other assistance to up to 182,000 families and 15,700 small businesses in western Wisconsin to help them afford coverage. Reform also improves Medicare for 111,000 beneficiaries in the district. Passage of health care reform protects 1,000 families in western Wisconsin from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs and allows 66,000 young adults to obtain coverage under their parent’s insurance plans. In addition, health care reform transforms our health care system into one that delivers higher quality care at a lower cost, eliminating waste in the system and increasing the quality of care for all Americans. “There are many provisions in the bill that we believe will help alleviate some of the issues in our current healthcare system, such as expensive or unavailable insurance and paying for quantity rather than quality,” said Jeff Thompson, MD, CEO, Gundersen Lutheran Health System. “Rep. Kind worked hard to make sure these provisions were inserted into the final healthcare bill, and we appreciate his efforts in this area. However, there is still work to be done and Gundersen Lutheran looks forward to working Rep. Kind and other members of Congress on additional reforms in the future that will continue to help make our nation’s healthcare system better for patients.” “We are absolutely thrilled with this legislation and thank Congressman Kind for his courageous vote on health care reform,” said Jim Flaherty, Spokesperson for AARP Wisconsin. “AARP has been pushing for quality, affordable, accessible health care for all Americans since its inception over 50 years ago. We believe Medicare will be strengthened by this law and prescription medication made more affordable.”
03.21.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted to put Americans in charge of their health care decisions and provide stable, affordable coverage to those who have health care as well as expand coverage to 32 million Americans who do not. “Today we take an important step to increase the quality of coverage for those who have insurance, expand affordable, quality care to the uninsured and protect consumers from unfair insurance practices, all while responsibly reducing the federal deficit over the next 10 years and beyond,” said Rep. Kind. “This is reform that is long overdue.”Health care costs made up 18 percent of U.S. spending in 2009. Without health care reform, this was projected to reach 28 percent by 2030 and 34 percent by 2040. “People across the district have shared with me their concerns with our current health care system. Our economy continues to suffer as Wisconsin families fall further into debt due to rising health care costs. Comprehensive health care reform could not wait.”The health care reform bill puts American families and small business owners—not the insurance companies—in control of their own health care. The bill makes health insurance affordable for individuals and small businesses through the creation of a competitive health insurance market that keeps costs down and is based on legislation authored by Rep. Kind. Reform holds insurance companies accountable to keep premiums down and prevent coverage denials, including for pre-existing conditions. In addition, passage of reform improves Medicare benefits, lowering prescription drug costs for those in the ‘donut hole,’ providing for better chronic care, free preventive care, and nearly a decade more of solvency for Medicare. It does all this and reduces the deficit by $143 billion over next 10 years, and by $1.2 trillion more over the following decade; reining in waste, fraud and abuse, moving towards a system that pays for the quality of care over the quantity of care.Passage of health care reform increases access to affordable, stable coverage for the 29,500 uninsured residents in the Third Congressional District and allows the 9,000 individuals in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions to get the coverage they are currently denied. Reform improves Medicare for 111,000 beneficiaries in the district. Health care reform also transforms our health care system into one that delivers higher quality care at a lower cost, eliminating waste in the system and increasing the quality of care for all Americans. “Health care reform offers stability and security to families who are satisfied with their health insurance and provides choices for those who aren’t. It provides increased access to stable care that is affordable for individuals, families, and businesses and ensures we reward the providers who are delivering the highest quality of care. Reform ensures the sustainability of our health care system and guarantees we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.”
03.19.2010	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act, legislation he authored, passed the House of Representatives. The Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act, H.R. 3671, calls for the development of a coordinated, public-private approach to studying and reducing nutrient and sediment runoff in the Upper Mississippi River Basin and establishes a water-quality monitoring system and a computer modeling program to analyze data. “The river plays a vital role in our economy and our quality of life in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind, founder and Co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force. “Increased sediment and nutrient flow into the upper basin poses a very serious threat to the long-term health of the entire Mississippi River system. This bill will lay the scientific foundation necessary to ensure the future quality and beauty of the Mississippi for generations to come.”The accumulation of excess sediment from increased soil erosion and nutrients, such as fertilizers and animal waste, in the Upper Mississippi River Basin degrades aquatic and wetland habitat and imperils a wide variety of fish and waterfowl. The increased soil erosion causes applied fertilizer from area farms to wash into the river, resulting not only in dangerously high nitrogen and phosphorous levels, but also a reduction in the long-term sustainability and income of family farms, and the plaguing of farmers annually with $300 million in unnecessary costs. In addition, sediment accumulation fills the main shipping channel of the river and valuable wetlands throughout the basin, reducing the value to wildlife and their capacity as nutrient filters and costing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers more than $100 million annually in dredging costs. The Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act aims to produce the data needed to better understand sediment and nutrient flow from its source in the landscape to its destination in rivers and lakes and drive the innovation needed to solve the excess sediment and nutrient problem in the Mississippi River System. The legislation establishes a sedimentation and nutrient reduction monitoring network and an integrated computer modeling program that, when combined, will provide the baseline data needed to make scientifically sound and cost-effective decisions to improve the Upper Mississippi River's ecosystem. “While there is no easy solution to stopping the runoff of sediment and nutrients into the Upper Mississippi River Basin, this legislation will make significant strides to provide a better understanding of land use that will improve our scientific knowledge of the river. I have worked closely with farmers, industry, sporting groups, conservation organizations, and government agencies to develop this effective, basin-wide, and non-regulatory approach, and am confident it will find support in the Senate, with the help of Senator Klobuchar.”The Upper Mississippi River system, with tributaries and a basin encompassing much of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri, is widely recognized as one of our nation’s great multi-use natural resources. The Mississippi River and its tributaries provide drinking water to approximately 22 million Americans and the system’s 1,300 navigable miles transport millions of tons of commercial cargo via barges. In addition, 40 percent of North America’s waterfowl use the wetlands and backwaters of the main stem as a migratory flyway, illustrating the environmental significance of the system as well as recreation capabilities.
03.18.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus, has been awarded the Congressional Health & Fitness Award by the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association (SGMA) for his promotion of healthy and active lifestyles in America. “I am honored to receive this award,” said Rep. Kind. “Promoting healthy lifestyles, particularly by providing people the incentives to adopt an active routine and the motivation to take care of their health, is important in ensuring the well being of future generations. I will continue to work on legislation that promotes eating right and regular exercise and the role it plays in preventing and controlling obesity, illness and disease. ”Rep. Kind was honored with the Congressional Health & Fitness Award particularly for his work on the Personal Health Investment Today (PHIT) Act, which encourages improved health through increased physical activity for all Americans by making activities more affordable through the use of tax incentives."The Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association and Congressman Ron Kind are equally passionate about promoting physical activity, for both children and adults," said Bill Sells, SGMA's vice president of government relations. "The benefits of a physically active lifestyle will reduce absenteeism in the classroom, improve productivity in the workplace, and reduce the burden on our health care system. Congressman Kind is committed to doing his part to 'Get America Moving' and we applaud his leadership in this area."This year marks SGMA’s 11th National Health through Fitness advocacy day on Capitol Hill where they honor members of Congress with an annual award and where more than 100 people, roughly 15 of whom are celebrities in sports, this year including Tim Brown, former football great Herschel Walker, and LPGA Hall of Famer Annika Sorenstam, meet with members of Congress to ask for support for initiatives that will help Americans adopt more physically active and healthy lifestyles.
03.17.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), member of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, today joined his committee in voting to improve job creation for small businesses, something he has called for repeatedly. “Small businesses and family farms are the backbone of our economy,” said Rep. Kind. “They are generating 65 percent of jobs, serve as important anchors in our communities, and are vital to our economic recovery. This bill will provide tax credits and open up the credit market for small businesses, helping them grow in this tough economic time. I will continue working to provide the resources our small businesses need to weather this economic climate and drive dollars back into our local communities.” The Ways and Means Jobs package passed through committee today includes numerous provisions focused on helping to create an environment for small business growth. The bill improves the terms of Small Business Administration (SBA) loan guarantees to help free up credit for small businesses, increases the start-up deduction for small business start-up expenditures, extends the ability for small businesses to receive reduced taxes on gains on small business stock – which helps increase investment in small businesses, and eliminates an unfair tax penalty negatively impacting small businesses.In addition, the bill also extends Build America Bonds, originally developed to give state and local governments the option to choose between the tax-exempt municipal bond market and the corporate taxable bond market to help them find the lowest financing costs. These savings help state and local governments stretch their dollars further. Since originally passed as part of the Recovery Act of 2009, the Build America Bonds program has helped state and local governments access the corporate taxable bond market to finance more than $78 billion in infrastructure projects. In the Third Congressional District, Elk Mound Area School District, La Crosse School District, the City of Eau Claire, the City of Tomah, and Southwest Wisconsin Technical College together have been issued $51 million in Build America Bonds for school, transit, and water system improvements, projects that may not have been funded over the last year due to the dire fiscal condition of state, county, and local governments.“Build America Bonds will help our state and local governments fund much needed improvement projects at the best price for the American taxpayer. I am pleased this provision was included in the legislation we debated in committee today and look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure it is passed by the House of Representatives as part of an upcoming jobs package.”
03.17.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted for H.R. 4825, to ensure that any portion of the yearly operating budget given back by Congressional offices goes toward deficit reduction or to pay down the national debt. “I have been a main proponent of this legislation for years and am pleased to see that we are making sure that money given back by offices is permanently used to pay down the debt and not for any other purpose,” said Rep. Kind. "At a time of large, unsustainable deficits, we must do everything we can to find savings to help reduce our debt.” Rep. Kind opposes the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and gives back a portion of his Congressional budget each year to reduce the deficit. The 2009 giveback totaled $118,278, for a total amount of $1.15 million since he took office. “We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I learned well from Senator Bill Proxmire to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars.”
03.11.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in response to the ruling made by a federal judge to block progress on a new bridge over the St. Croix River. “I am extremely disappointed in today’s ruling. In 2003, my office recommended the initiation of a RESOLVE process to offer all stakeholders, including the Sierra Club, a seat at the table and a voice in the decision making process regarding the bridge. The process took into account Sierra Club’s concerns and created a plan that limited environmental impact, yet the Sierra Club still walked away and later filed the lawsuit that resulted in the judgment today. The judge’s ruling also seems to indicate that the National Park Service is not allowed to change its mind, which is ridiculous. “I’m going to look more closely at the ruling and continue to work with leaders in the community, those who have an interest in this project, the Governor’s offices and the Departments of Transportation in both Wisconsin and Minnesota, and the national highway transportation agency to figure out a way forward and get this fixed as quickly as possible.“This is a setback in the progress of the bridge, but hopefully only one that is minor. Time is of the essence here and this is only delaying the project further. Everyone who has been on that bridge knows that the life expectancy of the bridge is short. This project only increases the price tag for the American taxpayer as we continue to work to overcome the hurdles in front of us. Further delay is only going to be detrimental to the growing region.”
03.11.2010	Thank you to all those you participated in my telephone town hall meeting last night. We had a great turnout with over 5,200 callers. I was able to address concerns and answer questions on a variety of topics including the economy, jobs, health care, fiscal responsibility, and education. I also took the opportunity to ask callers a few poll questions. I thought you might be interested in the responses. Poll Question 1. Do you think focusing on helping small businsses create jobs is the most effective approach for turning around our economy in western Wisconsin? 82% of respondants said yes, focusing on small buisnesses is effective. Poll Question 2. Today the House Appropriations Commitee said they would ban earmarks for for-profit companies. Do you feel like this is a good step for fiscal responsibility? 86% agreed that it was. It is clear that fiscal responsibility is a concern among the residents of western Wisconsin. As a former intern for Senator Proxmire, I am committed to fiscal responsibilty and will continue to do my best to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars. My next telephone town hall will be in mid-April. In addition, I will be holding several in-person town halls in the district March 29-April 9. Please check back on the website for dates, times and locations.
03.10.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today applauded the House Appropriations Committee for starting a new policy to refrain from approving earmark requests directed to for-profit entities. “I have been calling for the banning of corporate earmarks for some time. In fact, I proposed a bill to do just this last year and am pleased that the Appropriations Committee has included some of my provisions in this policy. By banning earmarks for for-profit companies, these entities will have to go through the normal competitive bidding process which has been proven to be fair and transparent. We must continue working to ensure greater transparency and increased fiscal responsibility in the earmark process.” Rep. Kind continues to lead the effort for earmark reform by forgoing earmark requests and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process, including bipartisan legislation he introduced last year to ban all congressional earmarks for for-profit entities, similar to the new policy. In total, Rep. Kind voted to oppose $12.1 billion worth of earmarks in 2009. In the past, earmark requests for for-profit companies have caused legal and ethical problems for lawmakers. Removing corporate earmark requests will ensure that all companies have the opportunity to competitively bid. This will also limit growing influence of lobbyists on Members of Congress. “Having investigated some of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards, I learned to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars and have long been committed to fiscal responsibility. This policy is a step in the right direction but more work has to be done. We must comprehensively reform the process to fix the earmarking system”
03.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, March 10, 2010 from 7:00-8:00 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on current legislation, including the economy and health care reform, among other topics. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 7:00 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 877-269-7289 and using the code 15311.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
02.26.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the City of Mauston has been selected to receive two water system improvement grants from the United States Department of Agriculture, funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “I am pleased that Mauston is receiving this funding,” said Rep. Kind. “The grants will help provide for improvements to Mauston’s water infrastructure so that the city might be able to provide high quality drinking water and take care of the local environment.”The City of Mauston will receive a $358,000 Water System Improvement Grant for clean water improvements as well as a $354,000 Wastewater System Improvement Grant for waste water system upgrades. Funds will be used to fix broken water mains as well as various collection system failures. The funding is not only aimed at updating and improving the waterways system in the community, but to spur construction jobs and create infrastructure needed to support community growth. “The funding from USDA will help the City of Mauston complete much needed work that would have otherwise been delayed many years into the future,” said Rob Nelson, Mauston Public Works director. USDA Rural development Water and Environmental Program provides loans and grants to ensure that the necessary investments are made in water and wastewater infrastructure to deliver safe drinking water and protect the environment in rural areas.
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Menomonie Fire Department is receiving a $675,000 Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “Safer communities build a stronger nation,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “I am pleased that the Menomonie Fire Department has received federal funding to help improve the community’s first line of defense against fires and other emergencies. I thank the firefighters of Menomonie for their hard work and hope that this funding will help to better fulfill the fire protection needs of the community.”The Menomonie Fire Department will use the grant to acquire a new emergency response vehicle. “We absolutely appreciate the financial support, it’s just tremendous,” said Jack Baus, fire chief of the Menomonie Fire department. “We are replacing a 35 year-old truck and with the economy the way that it is, it makes it difficult to replace such a vehicle without assistance. This is a huge grant for us and we appreciate the support from Rep. Ron Kind and everyone who helped.” The goal of the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is to enhance the ability of grantees to their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The program is a part of a larger, coordinated effort by the DHS to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire related hazards.
02.24.2010	Every 10 years the U.S. aims to pinpoint the changes in our nation’s communities by collecting information that will be used to help us determine how you're represented in Congress and what kinds of government services you find in your community. This includes infrastructure as well as services such as senior centers, schools, hospitals and job training centers. It is important that residents of the western Wisconsin understand the importance of being counted in these decisions. That is why I encourage you to participate in the 2010 Census. No matter your age, race, or ethnic group, you have a voice and it deserves to be heard. This year marks one of the shortest census forms in history, asking only 10 questions that require less than 10 minutes to complete. A few minutes of your time will ensure that your community receives the resources it needs. Please keep a look out for your 2010 census form, which should be mailed or delivered to your home this March.For more information, please click here.
02.24.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that 17 fire stations in the Third Congressional District are receiving Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grants administered by the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “I am pleased that so many of our local stations have received federal funding in the form of FEMA grants,” said Rep. Kind. “This funding will help ensure they have the access to the tools and resources needed to protect the health and well-being of the people of western Wisconsin. Wisconsin’s 898 fire departments not only provide an essential service, but are vital parts of our communities.”All 17 recipients of the grants will use the funding for operations and safety. • Whitehall Fire Department will receive $940,635• Darlington Fire House will receive $631,275• Strum Fire Department will receive $96,954• Fall Creek Fire Department will receive $83,168• Union Center Fire Department will receive $38,347• Prescott Fire Department will receive $56,193• Cazenovia Fire Department will receive $50,555• Mineral Point Fire Department will receive $42,144“The funding we receive will go toward improving and updating the communications network for all 13 fire departments in the county,” said Steve Stendahl, fire chief of the Whitehall Fire Department. “We plan to update the communications hardware, radio units, repeaters, and just get a heads up on improving our communications in the county.” “I think it’s a great thing and this funding will really help the community,” said Timothy Hastert, fire chief of the Darlington Fire House. “This is a great boost and will help with the emergency efforts in Lafayette county.” • Mondovi Fire Department will receive $39,900• Warrens Fire Department will receive $38,000• Cassville Fire Department will receive $33,535• La Farge Fire Department will receive $24,592• Colfax Community Fire Department will receive $21,888• Fennimore Fire Department will receive $22,762• La Valle Fire Department will receive $14,535• Lone Rock Fire Department will receive $8,550• Cobb Eden Fire Department will receive $8,100The goal of the Department of Homeland Security Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is to enhance the ability of grantees to their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. Since 2001, the AFG has provided approximately $4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training. The program is a part of a larger, coordinated effort by the DHS to strengthen the nation’s overall level of preparedness and ability to respond to fire related hazards.
02.23.2010	Investing in our students is investing in our future. We must make sure students have the tools they need to reach their academic potential, enabling them to succeed in a growing global economy. Seven out of the 10 fastest growing jobs in Wisconsin didn't exist a decade ago, so our challenge is to help prepare our students for these jobs using technology that hasn’t been invented yet. This is why our state and nation need an innovation agenda. This starts with providing our students access to student aid. Last fall, I voted for the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act not only helps a student graduate with less debt, but eases the financial aid application process, stabilizes the student loan program, invests in education, and helps us build a stronger, more competitive American economy. Over the next 10 years, the bill allows us to invest nearly $500 million in Pell Grants to Wisconsin students. In the Third Congressional District alone, 75 percent more students will receive grants and more than double the amount of funding will be available. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act added to this with an additional expansion of Pell Grant funding. The investment in our future begins with student aid but is also impacted by the resources and instruments accessible to students. Just this past December, I supported an investment of more than $31 billion in science, technology, innovation, math education, and workforce training including funding for high-risk, high-reward research in areas of critical national need by colleges and universities, and national labs. Major investments in fields like science, technology, math and engineering are what we need to remain the most innovative nation in the world. By supporting innovation, basic and applied research, and by focusing our resources to new studies in emerging fields, I believe we will come out of this economic recession in a stronger position. In fact, I was recently on the UW-La Crosse campus to highlight funding the university received for new instruments for multiple science departments and on the UW-Platteville campus to highlight funding for math and science based scholarships. This support will provide students the resources they need to focus on becoming leaders in these industries. This is a tough time for us, but this recession can help us redefine our nation through innovation.We must continue to invest in our students. It is our students who will help our country compete and succeed in a 21st Century global economy.
02.22.2010	Landmark reforms to the credit card industry will go into effect today thanks to the Credit CARD Act. The law, which Congress passed last year, will end unfair industry practices often leading consumers to pay more than they reasonably expect. When so many American families are struggling to make ends meet, consumers deserve to be treated fairly by their credit card companies. That’s what this new law will do: level the playing field for consumers and provide them the protection they deserve. The new law bans retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances (except when payments are more than 60 days late), double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks, and stops companies from charging over-the-limit fees unless the consumer opts in. Consumers will save at least $10 billion a year from curbs on interest rate increases alone, according to the Pew Charitable Trust which tracks credit card issues.Specifically, the law increases notice of any rate hikes going forward on new purchases to 45 days, requires card companies to fairly credit and allocate payments and prohibits charging fees just to pay a bill by phone. It also protects young consumers by requiring that before cards can be issued to anyone under 21, a parent must co-sign or an ability to pay must be demonstrated. The people of western Wisconsin deserve fair treatment from their credit card companies. The Credit CARD Act gives Americans the information and rights they need to make smart, informed decisions about their financial lives.
02.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced the 14th Annual Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” for high school students. Organized by Congressman Kind and his wife Tawni Kind, this event brings together high school artists from throughout western Wisconsin to recognize the tremendous talent of our high school art students. “Every year Ron and I look forward to this art competition. It’s a great opportunity for us to get to meet these wonderful artists from western Wisconsin,” said Tawni Kind. “These students are capable of amazing things and this competition is a wonderful opportunity for us to showcase that to the nation.”The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the third and four place pieces will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The deadline for submitting entries is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 26, 2010. Art teachers throughout Wisconsin’s 3rd Congressional District have been notified about the competition and the rules for artwork submission. On Saturday, April 10, 2010 from 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. there will be a reception at the Black River Falls Public Library to recognize the participants. All student participants, their families and teachers are invited to attend the reception.Anyone interested in entering the competition, or having questions about the contest guidelines, is encouraged to call Rep. Kind’s aide, Danice Stanton, toll free at 1-888-442-8040.
02.12.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today sent a letter to both President Obama and Vice President Biden urging them to open up the American Recovery and Reinvestment Project bidding process to local contractors, so that they might be able to create more local jobs. "Any company that believes it can do a better job at a better price for the American taxpayer should be allowed to bid on Recovery Act projects, even if it entails a slight delay in awarding contracts," said Rep. Kind. "It is important to get these projects underway as quickly as possible but unless local contractors are provided an opportunity to compete for projects, the job creating impact in our local communities will be drastically and unacceptably limited."Currently, the contracting process for Recovery Act projects often fails to include contractors located near the funded project. Decided by each individual federal agency that facilitates the awards, many contracts are going to pre-approved contractors - lists which are difficult for smaller, local contractors to get on often because they may not be able to facilitate the multiple projects agencies are looking to award at one time. "I firmly believe that our local western Wisconsin businesses can compete for and win contracts against larger national competitors if projects are awarded through a fair and open bidding process. My request does not ask for special consideration for local contractors but only that they are given an opportunity to compete on a level playing field. Updating this process is vital to creating jobs in our communities and continuing to grow our local economies."In the letter, Rep. Kind encourages the Administration to issue an Executive Order directing all federal agencies to award Recovery Act construction contracts through a bidding process that allows local companies to compete on a level playing field for projects. This would help create more jobs in communities where projects have been funded without the use of earmarks and will also help get the best work for lowest cost to taxpayers.
02.09.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), former co-chair and active member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, was recently recognized as Legislator of the Year by Safari Club International for his support, leadership and outstanding commitment to issues related to wildlife protection, sustainable use conservation, and for protecting the heritage of hunting.“As an outdoor enthusiast, hunter and fisherman, I savor every chance that I am afforded to enjoy the outdoors with my family,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud to win this award and I will continue to advocate for legislation that protects the rights of outdoorsmen across the country. I will not only continue to support the sporting tradition but ensure that there is legislation in place to preserve wildlife, hunting and fishing opportunities for years to come.” Rep. Kind was selected as Legislator of the Year as a direct result of his intimate involvement in several key legislative issues pertinent to the outdoors and wildlife conservation. Rep. Kind has not only led the way in conservation and wildlife preservation efforts through authoring bills and assuring appropriate funding levels, but has also led the charge for many bills directly impacting hunters. Some of his key initiatives include an effort to shift farm bill funding to wildlife conservation programs while also improving them as well as H.R. 510, which modifies the tax payment schedule to be less burdensome for firearms manufacturers. Rep. Kind has been a lead cosponsor of a measure to give permanent tax incentives to private landowners who set aside their land for conservation or wildlife benefits and also took a strong stance to protect the rights of hunters wishing to bring home legally hunted polar bear trophies taken during authorized hunts. Rep. Kind is an active outdoorsman and enjoys hunting white tail deer and turkey with his sons on their family farm in western Wisconsin. He also enjoys fishing on the Mississippi River. Safari Club International (SCI) was founded in 1972 by C.J. McElroy. The 32,000-member hunting and wildlife conservation organization comprises 140 chapters worldwide, and a museum at its headquarters in Tucson, Ariz. Much of SCI's behind-the-scenes work is directed toward wildlife enhancement and improved access for outdoors enthusiasts.
02.03.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a bipartisan group of members including Reps. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Mary Bono Mack (R-CA), and Marcia Fudge (D-OH), as well as the Campaign to End Obesity and the Grocery Manufacturers Association in announcing a comprehensive framework for combating obesity. “Healthy adults are more productive in the workforce and healthy kids do better in school,” said Congressman Kind. “That’s why making the healthy choice the easy choice for families today is so essential. Easier access to the tools and education to prevent and treat obesity; affordable, nutritious food to promote a balanced diet; and an increased emphasis on physical activity to maintain our overall health are critical to our quality of life and the economic success of our country. I am pleased to work on legislation that helps us do this and excited that the Administration is focusing on this important issue this year.” The legislative framework, authored by Rep. Kind, seeks to comprehensively address the obesity epidemic, currently affecting the lives of over 60 percent of adults and over 9 million children nationwide. The bill will include provisions to increase access to the tools and education to make healthy choices, update nutrition guidelines and provide more nutritious food in schools, increase access to nutritional information and healthy, affordable foods in rural and low-income urban areas, improve access to and opportunity for physical activity for adults and children, and provide more opportunities to participate in outdoor physical activities, including as a means of transportation. “Smart eating and exercise is the most important thing we can teach our kids,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “Instilling good eating habits makes it easier for children to focus in school and prevents serious health problems down the road, from heart disease to diabetes. Every child deserves to enjoy running and playing, and by helping them make smart food choices and exercise a part of their daily routines, we can create a healthier and happier generation of kids.” “Obesity is a nationwide epidemic, costing our health care system billions in related costs and threatening quality of life for far too many Americans,” said Congresswoman Bono Mack. “I am proud to combine efforts with Congressman Kind to make healthier living an easier choice for children and adults across the country. Through enhancing education, encouraging healthy food choices, and promoting physical activity, we can help Americans of all ages be more productive in school and in the work place and live healthier, happier lives.” "People want to be healthy and avoid preventable illnesses,” said Congresswoman Fudge. “This framework supports these goals by comprehensively addressing widespread obesity and unhealthiness. Expanding opportunities for family and community wellness by creating more sidewalks, funding bike paths, and creating community gardens and farmers' markets are examples of ways in which Congress can increase wellness and decrease obesity.""The Campaign to End Obesity - the nation's largest advocacy coalition on obesity policy, which brings together industry, public health, patient, provider and academia to promote federal anti-obesity policies, is excited to see the emergence of valued leadership in the legislative charge to reverse the nation's obesity epidemic,” said Lee Kaplan, MD, Harvard University School of Medicine and Chairman of the Board, the Campaign to End Obesity. “This effort reflects thoughtful and effective policies that can help Americans reach and sustain a healthy weight, and we are eager to partner with Congress to advance this much-needed measure -- one that tackles America's costliest medical condition head-on." “Obesity is one the nation’s most pressing public health challenges,” said Pamela Bailey, President and CEO of the Grocery Manufacturers Association. “Food and beverage companies are already changing the way we manufacture and market our products, but the number of obese and overweight Americans will not fall without strong leadership from the White House and from Congress. We look forward to working with Congressman Kind and his colleagues in Congress to craft sensible, science-based legislation that will help promote healthy eating habitats and provide new opportunities for physical activity. We applaud Rep. Kind for his leadership on this critical issue.”
02.01.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today commended President Obama for presenting a budget to Congress that represents an honest assessment of our financial situation and focuses on job creation and economic growth. “This budget does exactly what we need it to do right now, takes the steps to help the economy recover, creates jobs and helps get Americans back to work,” said Rep. Kind. “I’m pleased that the President’s budget extends access to credit for small businesses and makes efforts to open markets for American goods and services. Investments in science, technology and industry will help us lay a foundation for growth and create the jobs of the future. And funding for education will help our children learn the skills they need to succeed in a 21st century economy.” “At the same time we make these investments, we must be fiscally responsible. I want to thank the President for establishing a bipartisan fiscal commission, something I have called for, to help us reign in the deficit over the long-term. I learned well from Senator Proxmire that there it too much waste, fraud and abuse in the budget and that we need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars so we don’t pass on a crippling debt to our children and grandchildren.”Rep. Kind also commended the Administration for keeping its pledge to reduce wasteful agriculture subsidies. The budget calls for a phase down of payments by reducing the income cap of $750,000 down to $500,000 saving $860 million over five years and $2.2 billion over 10 years. It also calls for a reduction on the cap on the Direct Payment program from $40,000 to $30,000, eliminating wasteful spending. “I am encouraged that President Obama has held true to his pledge to root out waste in agriculture programs,” said Rep. Kind. “These commonsense reforms will reduce taxpayer subsidies to large agribusinesses and wealthy individuals while still maintaining a vital safety net for farmers during these tough economic times.”
01.29.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, February 10, 2010 from 6:30-7:30 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on current legislation, the economy, and health care reform among other topics. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 6:30 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 877-269-7289 and using the code 15311.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
01.28.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) recently sent a letter to the Government of Laos expressing concern for the safety of the Lao Hmong asylum seekers who were repatriated by the Royal Thai Government. “Many district residents have family and friends who are affected by this action,” said Rep Kind. “It is imperative that we remain actively engaged in the issue to protect these refugees and ensure that the Government of Laos allows international monitoring for safety and resettlement.”Nearly 4,700 Lao Hmong were repatriated by the Royal Thai Government to Laos earlier this month. The safety and wellbeing of these refugees is of great concern, considering the Hmong people’s previous involvement in Laos during the Vietnam War on behalf of the United States. The letter asks the Government of Laos to treat all of the returnees humanely, guarantee access to the international community for independent monitoring, and allow those who are eligible for resettlement to be resettled without delay. The letter also asks the Government of Laos to uphold the promises made in July 2009 to not arrest the returnees as well as not punish them for wrong doings in the past, but instead, provide them protection, security and freedom.“The safety of the recently repatriated Lao Hmong is very concerning. In the future, I’d like the opportunity to visit Laos to check out the resettlement camps, hear safety concerns of those who have been recently moved, and speak to government leaders to ensure the repatriated people are closely monitored and are treated fairly.”
01.27.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s first State of the Union address this evening:“President Obama delivered his first State of the Union as this nation faces great challenges. At a time when our county is dealing with a weakened economy, continuing wars, a health care crisis, and many other stresses on American families, I am pleased that tonight he offered ideas for meeting these challenges.“As the President stated, creating jobs must be our number one priority this year. We’ve enacted legislation to make education more affordable, provide tax credits for those hardest hit, preserve jobs, and get Americans working again. But there is still more work to be done to get our economy back on track. Our economic stability depends on smart investments to help small businesses and middle class families, green jobs and clean energy, comprehensive health care reform and a commitment to fiscal responsibility. I am pleased the President called on Congress to work together to build a sustainable, long-term foundation for our economy.“As we focus on growing our economy we must also work to get the deficit under control. We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I applaud the President’s call for a freeze on discretionary, non-defense spending and the creation of a fiscal responsibility commission, based on bipartisan legislation I offered with colleagues last year. This will help us not only address unnecessary spending but reduce the deficit and improve our long-term fiscal health.”
01.25.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today held events in both Eau Claire and La Crosse to stress the need for increased fiscal responsibility in government decision making. “Having investigated some of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards pointing out wasteful government spending, I have long been committed to fiscal responsibility,” said Rep. Kind. An original cosponsor of H.R. 1557, Rep. Kind called for a bipartisan fiscal responsibility commission to examine the national debt as well as entitlement spending, so that we reduce the deficit and improve our long-term fiscal health.Rep. Kind also opposes the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and gives back a portion of his Congressional budget each year to reduce the deficit. This year’s giveback totaled $118,278, for a sum of $1.15 million since he first took office. In addition, Rep Kind continues to lead the effort for earmark reform, forgoing requests in 2008 and 2009 and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process. In total, Rep. Kind opposed $12.1 billion worth of earmarks in 2009.“We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenge and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I learned well from Senator Proxmire that there it too much waste, fraud and abuse in the budget and that we need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.”
01.25.2010	It is imperative that we practice fiscal responsibility in government decision making. Having investigated some of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards pointing out wasteful government spending, I have long been committed to smart spending. In fact, I recently called for a bipartisan fiscal responsibility commission to examine the national debt as well as entitlement spending, so that we reduce the deficit and improve our long-term fiscal health.I also oppose the automatic cost of living increase for Members of Congress and give back a portion of my Congressional budget each year to reduce the deficit. This year’s giveback totaled $118,278, for a sum of $1.15 million since I first took office. In addition, I'm also leading the effort for earmark reform. I refused to make requests in 2008 and 2009, have introduced multiple forms of legislation to reform the process, and opposed $12.1 billion worth of earmarks in 2009.We must begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and pay down the debt to ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills. I learned well from Senator Proxmire that there it too much waste, fraud and abuse in the budget and that we need to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars.
01.22.2010	I am incredibly grateful to all of the Americans who are making selfless contributions to help Haiti recover from last week’s earthquake. All donations, large and small, are helping to provide crucial necessities for this relief effort and can literally mean the difference between life and death to many struggling through this tragedy. This week, I joined my colleagues in the House of Representatives in unanimously passing H.R. 4462 to provide an immediate benefit for those Americans who have already given and provide an incentive for those who are considering a charitable contribution. The bill allows individuals making donations to this cause between January 11th and March 1st to claim these offerings on their 2009 tax return instead of waiting to claim it on their 2010 return. In addition to passing this measure, the House of Representatives also voted this week to pass a resolution expressing condolences to, and solidarity with, the people of Haiti in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake.Please visit this website for additional resources.
01.19.2010	The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is now accepting entries for the 2010 Wisconsin Junior Duck Stamp Contest, which is administered by the Necedah National Wildlife Refuge. Entries must be postmarked by March 15, 2010.The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has held a Jr. Duck Stamp Contest in Wisconsin since 1994. It's a great program that uses both conservation and art to teach wetland habitat and waterfowl biology to students in kindergarten through high school. The program provides an opportunity for students to artistically express their knowledge of the diversity, interdependence and beauty of wildlife. Students may submit artwork featuring one of the following species: whistling ducks, swans, geese, brant, dabbling ducks, diving ducks, sea ducks, mergansers, stiff tails, or Hawaiian ducks. A full list of permitted species is available online. Judging will be open to the general public, and will be begin at 8:30 on March 26 at Necedah National Wildlife Refuge. Artwork entries will be judged on the basis of original design, anatomical accuracy, artistic composition and suitability for reproduction on a 1” by 1.5” stamp.The first place art from the national, contest is used to create a National Junior Duck Stamp each year. The Junior Duck Stamp is available for $5 from the U.S. Postal Service and from many National Wildlife Refuges. Proceeds from the sale of the stamps support conservation education and provide awards and scholarships for participating students, teachers and schools.The winner of the National Junior Duck Stamp Contest, along with his/her parent or guardian and teacher will receive a free trip to a First Day of Sale ceremony in late June/early July.A downloadable entry form and information on contest rules and regulations for teachers and supervising adults can be found online. Entries and reference forms should be postmarked by March 15, 2010 and mailed to:c/o Junior Duck Stamp CoordinatorNecedah National Wildlife RefugeW7996 20th Street WestNecedah, WI 54646
01.05.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today met with La Crosse area Hmong leaders to discuss recent actions taken by the Royal Thai Government to forcibly return Lao-Hmong asylum seekers to Laos. “I support the efforts taken by U.S. State Department and encourage Thai authorities to suspend this operation,” said Rep. Kind. “Many district residents have family and friends who are affected by this action. It is imperative that we remain actively engaged in the issue to protect these refugees and ensure that the Laotian government will allow international monitoring upon their return.”Rep. Kind met with several local members of the Hmong Advocacy Task Force today to gain knowledge and feedback on the issue. In addition, Rep. Kind sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton yesterday, sharing concern and urging the department to take action to protect the Lao-Hmong refugees and resolve this matter. Rep. Kind will also work with House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman, Howard Berman, as well as with other members of Congress, to send a letter to the Lao government asking for transparency of refugee conditions and the ability for the UN High Commission for Refugees to monitor the situation.
12.14.2009	This past Friday, I voted to protect consumers and hold Wall Street and big banks accountable through the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 4173, so that we never again come close to the near economic collapse faced last year.Just over a year ago, we were held hostage by large institutions that were viewed as too big to fail, that made bad decisions that almost brought down our entire economic system. This bill will change that. No longer will there be institutions deemed too big to fail. This bill will allow them fail, but at their own expense, and in a way that doesn’t jeopardize the whole U.S. financial system. The legislation holds Wall Street accountable through increased transparency and regulation of risky practices. The bill also establishes an orderly process for dismantling large, failing companies - at their own expense, and requires that stockholders and executives take a financial hit if risky deals fall through, ensuring an end to taxpayer funded bailouts.Click here for an interactive financial crisis timeline.
12.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Vice-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition, which led the way in calling for financial reform, today voted to protect consumers and hold Wall Street and big banks accountable through the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, H.R. 4173, so that we never again come close to the near economic collapse faced last year. “Just over a year ago, we were held hostage by large institutions that were viewed as too big to fail, that made bad decisions that almost brought down our entire economic system,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill will change that. No longer will there be institutions deemed too big to fail. This bill will allow them fail, but at their own expense, and in a way that doesn’t jeopardize the whole U.S. financial system.” The legislation holds Wall Street accountable through increased transparency and regulation of risky practices. A new systemic risk regulator will monitor financial activity across the whole sector to identify risks and irresponsible behavior and prevent them from becoming a problem for individual investors and the entire economy. The bill also establishes an orderly process for dismantling large, failing companies - at their own expense, and requires that stockholders and executives take a financial hit if risky deals fall through, ensuring an end to taxpayer funded bailouts.The bill also enacts several measures to protect consumers including:Ensuring that credit cards and mortgages are fair, transparent, and understandable by creating the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA), a new, independent federal agency solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services and providing quality information about potential risks. Helping protect 401k and pension plans by stopping institutions from taking risks that threaten the financial system and can cause a crash.Ending predatory lending practices so that lenders can’t put consumers into an unaffordable or difficult to understand loan.“Over the past year, we have become aware of many financial practices which were abusive and reckless and unfortunately, did not do enough to protect the consumer. We’re putting an end to that with this bill. At the same time, it’s important that we modernize our regulatory system, so we can preserve the ability of businesses to continue to innovate and take appropriate risk to support economic growth and job creation.”
12.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Committed to fiscal discipline, Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against the Consolidated Appropriations for FY 2010, or the omnibus spending bill, H.R. 3288, due to the bill’s inclusion of excessive earmarks. The bill provides $446.8 billion in discretionary funding for programs normally covered by six regular appropriations bills and contains 5,224 earmarks totaling $3.9 billion. “As our country struggles through the most difficult economic situation in a generation, every dollar matters,” said Rep. Kind. “We must look out for excessive spending. As a watchful steward of the taxpayer dollar, I continue to focus on fiscal responsibility and refrain from personally requesting earmarks.” The annual appropriations cycle includes 12 bills that fund the federal government. In addition to today’s vote, Rep. Kind voted against four of this year’s previous appropriations bills due to excessive earmarks and the fact that many included budget requests of billions of dollars more than requested for 2009. “Having researched some of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards that pointed out wasteful government spending, I have long been committed to fiscal responsibility. By scrubbing for savings in the budget, reallocating the money appropriated in these excessive earmarks, and cracking down on cost overruns in spending by defense contractors, we can spend more responsibly and pay for the war in Afghanistan.”Rep. Kind continues to lead the effort for earmark reform, calling for the creation of two bipartisan commissions - one to examine the earmark process to further reform spending habits and one to assess entitlement reform. He has also refrained from making earmark requests in 2008 and 2009.
12.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to create jobs and strengthen the economy by extending tax credits and cutting taxes for millions of families. The Tax Extenders Act of 2009, H.R. 4213, provides individuals and businesses with approximately $31 billion in tax relief by extending for one year more than 40 provisions scheduled to expire at the end of 2009, without adding to the deficit. “This bill will provide much-needed relief to families and businesses who are struggling in the current economic downturn and in a way that is fiscally responsible,” said Rep. Kind. “While temporary patches of this nature are not ideal, this action is better than none and will provide economic benefits to people across western Wisconsin.” The Tax Extenders Act extends the research and development tax credit for another year, encouraging businesses to increase investments in technology and create more high-tech jobs. “I have long advocated making this credit permanent so companies can make it a permanent part of their business plans and keep America competitive in the industries of today and tomorrow. I hope we will do that as part of overall tax reform starting next year.”The bill also provides relief to individuals and strengthens family budgets by extending the deductibility of state and local sales taxes and providing property tax relief. It also extends the deduction that students receive for tuition payments and the deduction teachers receive for classroom expenses, both important for quality, accessible education. Rep. Kind also worked to include provisions that would benefit western Wisconsin specifically. These provisions include the conservation easement credit, which gives individuals an incentive to protect environmentally important land in perpetuity, and the extension of a five-year depreciation period for farm and agricultural equipment, which has been highly successful in spurring capital improvements on the farm and improving farm output and efficiency. The legislation also extends a provision, authored by Rep. Kind last year, which provides tax relief to families and businesses who are impacted by natural disasters. “Following devastating floods in western Wisconsin in 2007 and 2008, it became clear to me that more tools were needed to assist individuals and businesses in their recovery. The tax relief provided here offers a more systematic and fair method than the previous system of ad hoc assistance on a case-by-case basis.”
12.07.2009	I held a roundtable discussion with veterans at a local American Legion last Friday. We discussed the war in Afghanistan as well as their personal experiences at war. It’s important to me to hear from people who have served in combat before deciding on policy for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. There are going to be votes coming up in Congress, very difficult decisions that we are going to have to make, regarding Iraq and Afghanistan and the entire region, and getting a perspective from our veterans is going to help better inform me when it comes to casting these important votes. Our vets have a wealth of experience and knowledge and I greatly value their feedback. I am also forming a veterans advisory group. If you’d like to be a part of this group, please call Meghan in my office at 202-225-5506.
12.04.2009	I held a telephone town hall on Wednesday evening, on which I was able to discuss agriculture and dairy with over 2,000 district residents. I appreciate all of the calls, feedback and questions. The past year has been a very difficult time for Wisconsin farmers and their families. It was helpful to discuss dairy prices, farm loans, overproduction, subsidies and other issues. We must find solutions to both the dairy crisis and the lack of credit in the market so we can save farms and preserve the livelihood of farmers in western Wisconsin and across the country. I appreciate all of the feedback and hope you will continue to contact me with ideas and questions you may have.
12.02.2009	In response to the President's address last night, I want to share my thoughts on the troop increase in Afghanistan. A decision to increase troops is one of the most difficult decisions a President has to make. I am pleased that President Obama is taking time to weigh all the options and is asking the right questions. It is important that the policy is worth the sacrifice that our men and women in uniform are making on behalf of our country. It is also important that we have a legitimate partner in Afghanistan, so that we are able to train and equip Afghan troops and develop a minimal level of self governance. Any plan should have measurable objectives so our troops have clear direction and so we know if we are succeeding. We need a coordinated, regional approach that involves the international community and does not solely focus on military force but also focuses on economic development in the region, especially agriculture.Having just been to Pakistan, I know that a partnership with Pakistan is important to rooting out terrorists and ensuring stability in the region. I know the stress and strain that repeated deployments have on our military members and their families. I am pleased that President Obama is focused on an exit strategy so our troops will not be in Afghanistan one day longer than what is necessary.
12.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in response to the President’s address on Afghanistan. “A decision to increase troops is one of the most difficult decisions a President has to make. I am pleased that President Obama is taking time to weigh all the options and is asking the right questions. It is important that the policy is worth the sacrifice that our men and women in uniform are making on behalf of our country. “It is also important that we have a legitimate partner in Afghanistan, so that we are able to train and equip Afghan troops and develop a minimal level of self governance. Any plan should have measurable objectives so our troops have clear direction and so we know if we are succeeding. It is crucial that we do not Americanize Afghanistan and at the same time, our overriding objective must be to eliminate safe havens so Al Qaeda cannot launch future terrorist attacks against us or other nations. To do this, we need a coordinated, regional approach that involves the international community and does not solely focus on military force but also focuses on economic development in the region, especially agriculture.“Having just been to Pakistan, I know that a partnership with Pakistan is important to rooting out terrorists and ensuring stability in the region. “Earlier this year, Wisconsin had the largest deployment of National Guard members since World War II. I know the stress and strain that repeated deployments have on our military members and their families. I am pleased that President Obama is focused on an exit strategy so our troops will not be in Afghanistan one day longer than what is necessary.”
11.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, December 2, 2009 from 6:50-7:50 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on agriculture issues including dairy prices and farm loans. “The past year has been a very difficult time for Wisconsin farmers and their families,” said Rep. Kind. “We must find solutions to both the dairy crisis and the lack of credit in the market so we can save farms and preserve the livelihood of farmers in western Wisconsin and across the country. I look forward to hearing the thoughts of farmers in the district.” The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District residents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. This telephone town hall will focus on agriculture and dairy. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 6:50 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 877-269-7289 and using the code 15311.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
11.20.2009	Wednesday night I held my 8th LIVE telephone town hall discussion. I enjoy telephone town halls because they allow me to reach thousands of people in the district through a phone call. This telephone town hall focused on health care reform and drew 5,900 residents from western Wisconsin. On the call, I took questions on a number of health care topics including Medicare, the cost of reform, the public option, and changing the way we pay for health care.What I thought was interestesting is that when polled during the call, 80 percent of respondents felt that health care should be paid for based on the quality or outcome of care provided rather than the number of tests and procedure performed. It is not surprising that so many people in western Wisconsin feel the cost of health care should be based on the quality of care delivered. Our providers in this region are some of the highest quality providers and are looked at as model care providers by the rest of the country. This is why I am fighting so hard to change the way we pay for health care in this country. Paying providers based on the quality of care they provide versus the number of tests they order provides the best opportunity to enhance the quality of care patients receive at substantially lower costs, making health care more affordable for all Americans. I will continue working to make sure the quality of care is central to any health care reform bill.
11.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, November 18, 2009 from 6:35-7:35 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ask questions on the health care reform bill that recently passed the House of Representatives. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. This telephone town hall will focus on health care reform. Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 6:35 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 877-229-8493 and using the code 15311.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
11.16.2009	The Affordable Health Care for America Act not only makes health care more stable and affordable for those who already have health insurance, but it also guarantees access to health insurance coverage for the uninsured and provides security for seniors, while responsibly reducing the federal deficit during the next ten years and beyond. This is reform that is long overdue.There are more than half a million uninsured Americans in Wisconsin alone, a number that grows daily. Many who have coverage have shared with me their concern that coverage often costs too much or doesn't cover everything they need. Some feel they are one catastrophic illness from going bankrupt. Doing nothing is not an option.The health care reform bill will offer stability and security to families who are satisfied with their health insurance and provides choices for those who aren't. It will provide increased access to high quality care that is affordable for individuals, families and businesses.Through the bill, health insurance will be made more affordable by providing credits to help 182,000 households and 15,000 small businesses in western Wisconsin purchase insurance and protecting up to 1,000 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. The bill caps out-of-pocket costs and eliminates lifetime limits on insurance coverage to protect your financial security. Small businesses will also be able to enter into the health insurance exchange, modeled after legislation I authored and, with the help of small business tax credits, find affordable health insurance for employees.Health insurance will also be more accessible and in our district alone provide coverage to the 35,000 who go without and allow the 9,000 individuals in western Wisconsin with pre-existing conditions to get the coverage they are currently denied. Those who do not receive coverage through their employer will be able to purchase coverage at group rates through a health insurance exchange. The plans in the exchange will be completely transparent on the prices charged and the services covered.Under the bill, the quality of coverage will also improve. Approximately 67 percent of the district's population, 478,000 residents, who receive coverage from their employers, will be able to keep their coverage, and it will get better. Insurance reforms in the bill will also eliminate co-pays and deductibles for preventative care, and rate increases or denials for pre-existing conditions, gender or occupation.Currently, we spend more than $700 billion each year on tests and procedures that do not work and do not improve patient care. In too many instances, because of over-treatment, this care actually makes patients worse off. Based on negotiations I led, the bill includes provisions that reform the way we deliver health care and how we pay for it by rewarding value-based, quality medicine over the volume-based medicine currently practiced. This is a historic reform of the way providers are reimbursed for the care they provide and the quality of care patients receive that will eliminate millions in wasteful spending that doesn't help the patient. I know this care works because the health care providers in our region have practiced high-quality, low-cost care.The bill does all of this and is fiscally responsible, reducing the deficit by $109 billion over the next 10 years. The Affordable Health Care for America Act helps us control health care spending and will ensure the affordability of care while at the same time guaranteeing our country isn't driven further into debt as we reform the health care system.The Affordable Health Care for America Act will ensure the sustainability of our health care system. It will provide stable, affordable, high quality health care to all Americans, regardless of health status or occupation, and guarantee we do not leave a legacy of debt to our children.
11.10.2009	Every year, Veterans Day is a chance to honor those individuals who have served their country to promote and defend liberty and freedom. This year marked the sixth year of the conflict in Iraq and the eighth in Afghanistan. With thousands of our young men and women having served in these conflicts, this year’s Veterans Day provides much to be reflected on: the soldiers of wars past and present. Veterans Day it is a great opportunity for Americans to encourage veterans they know to share their brave stories. I have always thought it important for us to honor the heroic, selfless work of our men and women in uniform. What better way to honor our veterans than to preserve their stories for future generations. By having veterans share their experiences, they leave behind tangible accounts of the service, sacrifice, and courage they gave on behalf of the country and their fellow Americans. To preserve the experiences of our country’s veterans, in 2000 I authored legislation creating the Veteran’s History Project (VHP). The Veteran’s History Project uses volunteer interviews to record the experiences of veterans and their families. These stories are recorded and entered into the permanent collection of the Library of Congress’s American Folklife Center. It is these living testaments that provide the most powerful record of the sacrifice and hardship of our nation at peace and at war. Today, the VHP is the largest oral history collection in the world, but there are still millions of stories that can and should be told. Time is short however. We are losing more than 1,700 veterans every day. At the same time that we lose the veterans of wars past, new veterans are also returning every day from the conflicts in the Middle East. The opportunity to record these stories and memorialize the heroic efforts of our nation’s veterans doesn’t last forever. I urge you to take the time on Veterans Day to not only honor this country’s veterans, but to ask the veterans in your life to record their stories. They serve as the most significant memorial we can possibly give to our nation’s fallen and living veterans.Those interested in becoming involved in the VHP are encouraged to contact my office, send an e-mail to vohp@loc.gov or call the toll-free message line at (888) 371-5848 to request a project kit. The kit is also available on the VHP website.
11.08.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted for bipartisan health care reform that provides affordable, stable, quality health insurance to all Americans. The Affordable Health Care for America Act, H.R. 3962, passing 220 to 215, is a commonsense bill that will reform the current health care system. “Comprehensive health care reform is long overdue because the current system is unsustainable. The Affordable Health Care for America Act not only makes health care more stable and affordable for those who already have health insurance, but it guarantees access to health insurance coverage for the uninsured, protects consumers, provides security for seniors, and reforms the way we pay for health care from one that is volume driven to one that is value driven. “The health care reform bill builds on what works and fixes what doesn’t, offering stability and security to families who are satisfied with their health insurance and providing choices for those who aren’t, without leaving a legacy of debt to our children. “Although it’s not perfect, the bill is a good start. As promised, it’s completely paid for. In fact, it reduces the national deficit by $109 billion over the next 10 years and will reduce the cost of care moving forward. I am proud to support the bill. “Our current system pays for the number of procedures ordered instead of the quality of care provided; resulting in $700 -800 billion, approximately one third of health care costs, in wasteful spending each year that doesn’t help the patient. We need a value-based reimbursement system that rewards quality and cost-effectiveness.“I’ve worked with health care providers in Wisconsin to correct the unfairness of Medicare reimbursement rates that they have been subjected to for so long. Our region is among the lowest reimbursed in the nation, forcing health care providers to shift costs to private plans, resulting in higher costs for patients. We’re fixing that flawed system with this bill, through negotiations I led, to include provisions for historic payment reform that reward the value of care delivered instead of the quantity of care provided. This bill will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, making health care more affordable for all Americans. “I have been assured by Mayo Clinic, Gunderson Lutheran and other health care providers that they will continue to work with me and other Members of both the House and Senate to achieve a final product that moves Medicare toward a model that rewards value. They understand that more of the same is not an acceptable option.”"The status quo is not acceptable,” said Robert Nesse, MD, President and CEO, Franciscan Skemp Healthcare (La Crosse), Mayo Health System. “What we see in health care right now in the United States is tremendous amounts of duplication of services that are not necessary. About 30 percent of the money we spend on health care could be saved if we were all practicing at the best standards of quality and efficiency. The House bill’s provision calling for an Institute of Medicine study and recommendations will move us in the right direction. I look forward to continue working with Congressman Kind to achieve a final product that moves Medicare toward a model that rewards value."
11.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted in favor of the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009, a bill that will help continue America’s economic recovery by extending and improving the homebuyer tax credit, providing homebuyer benefits to military families, and extending unemployment benefits. Many of the provisions in the legislation originated in the Committee on Ways and Means, a committee Rep. Kind has been a member of since 2007. “The bill gives more Americans the opportunity to become homeowners,” said Rep. Kind. “Through legislation I authored, I am proud to support our troops and veterans through this bill. Their dedicated service to securing our country is inspiring. Service members should have every opportunity to succeed and enhance their life when they return home, and this bill will help them do just that.”The legislation strengthens the domestic housing market by extending the $8,000 first-time homebuyer tax credit through April 30, 2010 and providing a $6,500 credit to new purchasers who have lived in their current residence for five years or more out of the previous eight years. In addition, legislation in the bill authored by Rep. Kind extends the first-time homebuyers credit for military personnel serving outside the United States at least 90 days in 2009 or 2010 for one additional year. The bill also prevents service members from having to repay the first-time homebuyer credit if they are forced to sell their home within three years of purchase due to deployment.Unemployment insurance benefits will also be extended by up to 14 additional weeks for jobless workers in every state, and a total of up to 20 weeks in high unemployment states, including Wisconsin. This provision will help more than 1.3 million jobless Americans whose benefits are set to expire by the end of the year and is fully paid for by a continued extension of the 30-year old federal unemployment tax. “Not only are we providing stability to those whose incomes are most vulnerable but we are also strengthening the economy and creating jobs through the extension of unemployment benefits. These payments will help consumers purchase necessities for their families as well as continue their mortgage payments, reducing foreclosures. This is crucial support for those in western Wisconsin who need have lost their jobs in this tough economic time and is done in a fiscally responsible way.”
11.04.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in response to the AFL-CIO event held in La Crosse.“Comprehensive health care reform cannot wait. In order to ensure the sustainability of our health care system, we must provide stable, affordable, high quality health care to all Americans, regardless of health status or occupation, and in a way that is fiscally responsible. Ensuring increased access to coverage will help make health insurance more affordable for family, public and business budgets alike. I am pleased that the AFL-CIO supports the bill and is getting the word out about how the Affordable Health Care for America Act (HR 3962) will save money and benefit Wisconsin citizens.”
11.03.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today praised the passage of the National Veterans History Project Week Resolution, legislation he authored, to encourage public participation in a nationwide project that collects and preserves the stories of the men and women who served our nation in times of war and conflict. “I am pleased Congress has recognized our nation’s veterans and the importance of the Veterans History Project,” said Rep. Kind. “The project is a great way to honor our veterans, preserving their stories for future generations. These living testaments provide the most powerful record of the sacrifice and hardship of our nation. Now is the time, as we are losing 1,700 veterans each day and there are still millions of stories yet to be told. I encourage all Americans, young and old, to take time to ask the veterans in their lives to record their stories. Increasing public participation in the Veterans History Project will increase the number of stories preserved and increase the number of veterans the collection honors.”Rep. Kind authored legislation creating the Veterans History Project in 2000. The Veterans History Project uses volunteer interviews to record the experiences of veterans and their families. These stories are recorded and entered into the permanent collection of the Library of Congress’s American Folklife Center. It is currently the largest oral history collection in the world, with 66,000 stories archived. Those interested in becoming involved in the Veterans History Project are encouraged to contact the office of Rep. Kind, send an e-mail to vohp@loc.gov or call the toll-free message line at (888) 371-5848 to request a project kit. The kit is also available on the VHP website at www.loc.gov/vets.
10.30.2009	The most current numbers on jobs created and money obligated through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are expected on Recovery.gov this afternoon. On the site you will be able to see details on the projects and activities awarded funds by state, Congressional district, county and even zip code. Details including number of jobs created with specific funds will be available pending data reported by recipients. At this time, of the $160 billion that has been obligated or awarded to projects, $25 billion has been given out and it is estimated to have directly created about 640,000 jobs, one million jobs directly and indirectly. About 325,000 of these have been created in education alone. As you take a look at the numbers, I want to make a distinction between direct and indirect jobs. The numbers on the website show jobs directly funded by the Recovery Act – but do not show the large number of indirect jobs created. Direct jobs can include the workers hired by a contractor using Recovery funds to build a bridge. Indirect jobs include the workers hired by a supply company that works with the contractor or the workers hired by the restaurant across the street from the job site that needs to support an increased number of customers. This is also not the final number of jobs that will be created by this fraction of Recovery funds. For example, a business that receives funds may hire 15 workers now, with plans to expand and hire more workers next year. Please keep this in mind when studying the data. In addition, jobs are only one part of the Recovery Act. Already accomplished are tax cuts for 95% of American workers, $250 payments for seniors and disabled veterans, and loans to small businesses to keep their doors open. The release of this new data represents an unprecedented level of government transparency and accountability. On Recovery.gov you can see exactly how your tax dollars are being used to strengthen the economy and help create and save jobs.
10.30.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to create jobs and stimulate the economy by providing small businesses with access to the loans and investment dollars they need to expand and grow their operations. The Small Business Financing and Investment Act (H.R. 3854) helps open tight credit markets that have shut out small business owners during this economic crisis, so that they have the resources to make investments and create jobs.“Small businesses and family farms are the backbone of our economy,” said Rep. Kind. “They are creating almost 80 percent of the new jobs, serve as important anchors in our communities, and are vital to our economic recovery. In this tough time, I want to make sure that they are provided with the resources they need to weather this economic climate and drive dollars back into our local communities.” The current economic crisis has frozen credit and made it difficult for small businesses to get the financing they need. By comprehensively updating the Small Business Administration’s capital access programs, the bill is expected to support $44 billion in lending and investment, helping create or save 1.3 million jobs annually. The legislation will also increase loan sizes by 33 percent – from $2 million to $3 million - to better meet the needs of small businesses. In addition, the bill includes incentives to encourage local banks to lend to small businesses and reduces bureaucratic red tape, making it easier for entrepreneurs to secure credit. An important source of job creation, the bill creates a new public/private partnership to expand investments in small business startups. It also extends critical Recovery Act provisions eliminating fees on Small Business Administration loans and guaranteeing up to 90% of 7(a) loans. To foster a diverse mix of businesses, it takes steps to promote veteran-owned, women-owned and rural small businesses.“I am proud to support a bill that provides for small businesses in western Wisconsin. I’ve visited with many small business owners throughout the district this year that are having difficulty obtaining the credit they need to stay in business. A fully functioning, efficient credit market for small businesses is essential to creating jobs and getting our economy back on track. That is why this bill is so important today. ”
10.29.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today praised the introduction of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, a commonsense bill that will reform the current health care system and provide affordable, quality, accessible coverage to all Americans. “I’ve heard the concerns of people from across western Wisconsin. Many are fortunate to have coverage, but often it costs too much and doesn’t cover everything they need. People tell me that they are concerned about being one layoff away from being uninsured or one catastrophic illness from going bankrupt.“Comprehensive health care reform cannot wait. In order to ensure the sustainability of our health care system, we must provide stable, affordable, high quality health care to all Americans, regardless of health status or occupation, and in a way that is fiscally responsible. While I am still reading and studying the provisions of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, I know that it does not add one nickel to the national deficit. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will reduce the deficit by over $30 billion in the next 10 years. “In order to lessen the burden on small businesses and family farmers who are struggling to afford health insurance coverage, I am pleased the bill includes a national exchange, modeled after legislation that I authored called the SHOP Act. The exchange provides small businesses the opportunity to enter into a larger pool to buy affordable insurance and includes small business tax credits to offset the cost of health insurance.“An agreement, included through negotiations which I led, will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for health care in our country. Instead of paying for the volume of care given, we will pay for the quality of care given. This provision is a historic accomplishment for the Medicare system, a victory for high quality, low cost providers like those in western Wisconsin, and will lead to lower costs, making health care more affordable for all Americans.”A link to the full bill can be found on Rep. Kind’s website at www.kind.house.gov.
10.28.2009	Without change, health insurance premiums for Wisconsin's small businesses will continue to skyrocket. In 2008, Wisconsin’s small businesses and self-employed entrepreneurs spent $3.1 billion in healthcare premiums. That number will rise to $7.2 billion by 2018 without relief from comprehensive reform. The rising cost of health insurance for Wisconsin’s small businesses hampers their ability to compete and to retain employees.Wisconsin had 112,776 small employers in 2006, representing 96% of the state’s employers. But, due to cost, only 41% of small businesses offered any type of health insurance as a benefit. 340,015 self-employed entrepreneurs make up 12% of Wisconsin’s employment. These entrepreneurs and the state’s small business employees together make up 45% of the workforce. Small businesses created all of Wisconsin's net new jobs from 2004 to 2005.* WITHOUT health reform, small businesses will pay nearly $2.4 trillion over the next 10 years in health care costs for their workers.* WITHOUT reform, 178,000 small business jobs will be lost in 2018 as a result of rising health care costs.* WITHOUT reform, $834 billion in small business wages will be lost due to high health care costs over the next 10 years* WITHOUT reform, over the next 10 years, small businesses will lose $52.1 billion in profits to high health care costs.Wisconsin's small businesses need health care reform that works for them and includes the following:A well-designed health insurance exchange that creates a marketplace that is fair, efficient and predictable, relieving small business owners from the time-consuming task of shopping for health insurance in today’s chaotic conditions. Ensures that thousands of Wisconsin citizens with histories of health problems would get coverage they’ve been denied. Provides tax credits and individual subsidies, included in the proposals now before Congress, to help businesses afford coverage for their employees. Includes numerous provisions to eliminate inefficiency and waste in the health care system, creating savings for the businesses and families paying premiums.
10.23.2009	The past year has been a very trying time for many Americans, but none more than American dairy farmers and their families. To help alleviate some of the stress on farmers, the Farm Service Agency (FSA) will hold hour-long briefings during November for dairy industry professionals. These briefings will provide basic information about FSA loans and financial services and are open to anyone with concerns about the agriculture industry. To locate a briefing in your area, please see my homepage or click here. Someone from my staff will also be on-site during the western Wisconsin events to answer any questions you may have about my work in Congress. In addition, I will soon announce the date for my dairy-focused telephone town hall where you will have the opportunity to provide live feedback and ideas as well as ask questions and share thoughts on issues concerning farmers today.
10.22.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced final legislative text of an agreement made that takes steps to reform to the Medicare reimbursement system, included through negotiations which he led. This agreement will be part of the final health care reform bill that comes up for a vote in the House of Representatives. “Our current system pays for the number of procedures ordered instead of the quality of care provided; resulting in $700 billion, approximately one third of health care costs, in wasteful spending each year that doesn’t help the patient,” said Rep. Kind. “We need a value-based reimbursement system that rewards quality and cost-effectiveness. The provision solidified today is a historic accomplishment for the Medicare system and will dramatically transform the way we pay for health care. I know these reforms can work because the providers in our region have long been delivering the kind of high quality, low cost care that has been looked to as a national model.” The inclusion of this agreement is a major victory for Wisconsin health care providers, who regularly deliver high quality, low cost services but are reimbursed less than providers in other parts of the country. This agreement also ends discrimination against patients in these high quality, low cost areas by preventing the cost shift that occurs when private insurers increase payments to providers to make up the difference in the amount providers are reimbursed for Medicare patients, passing along costs to those with private insurance. As a result of the agreement and elimination of this cost shift, private health care costs in high quality, low cost regions will decrease. “This agreement to address and correct unjustified variation in Medicare payments based only on geography is important for health care providers across the country,” said Dr. Robert Nesse, President and CEO of Franciscan Skemp Healthcare. “Congressman Kind was a national leader in the effort to gain this agreement and we thank him for his efforts. We look forward to participating in a new Medicare payment system that supports and rewards high quality care delivered in the most cost effective way to our patients.” Under the agreement, the Institute of Medicine, through two studies, will make recommendations on how to fix the current flawed Medicare reimbursement system. The Secretary of Health and Human Services will then implement the recommendations. The first study will examine the current Medicare reimbursement formula and make recommendations to update the Medicare physician payments. The second study will provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward value and quality. Both studies will be completed and recommendations ready for implementation before the national exchange or public option go into effect. “In many instances, the over-utilization of health care actually leads to worse results,” said Rep. Kind. “We must change the incentives in the health care system to reward and reimburse providers for the quality of care they provide. The pathway created by the quality and value reforms in this provision will help us not only control costs by finding savings in the system, but will allow us to provide better care at a lower price.”
10.21.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today met with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner, urging him to address the current credit crisis. “I am pleased that Secretary Geithner took the time to meet with a group of members today to discuss the current state of the economy, plans for job growth, and areas we can look to for success. I took this time to address the needs of small business in western Wisconsin. “Small businesses and family farms are the backbone of our economy. They are creating 80 percent of the new jobs today and serve as important anchors in our communities. As innovative leaders in industry and technology, I know that our small businesses play an important role in both the state and national economy and it is these businesses that will help us survive this recession. “I want to make sure that our small businesses are provided every opportunity to succeed. That’s why I urged the Administration to make it easier for small businesses to obtain credit. I look forward to working with the Administration on a list of proposals that would open up the credit market that is so adversely affecting small business right now. In a time when we are working through the most difficult economic environment since the Great Depression, it is important to continue to support these small business needs.”
10.13.2009	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in celebration of the 100th birthday of the University of Wisconsin – La Crosse this month. “It is with great pride that I congratulate UW-La Crosse on its centennial birthday. For the past 100 years, the faculty, staff, and students have worked hard to make UW-La Crosse one of the most highly regarded public universities in the country. “I was happy to commemorate this historic milestone with a resolution on the floor of the House of Representatives today, recognizing the university’s rich history of academic achievement and its continued growth as an institution. “I have always treasured the strong emphasis western Wisconsin places on higher education. All of the six universities located in the district have superior technology, science, and math programs that will place graduates in the innovative industries of the future. As a leading public university that excels in academics, athletics, and quality of life for students, the education that UW-La Crosse provides will help graduates as they enter the highly competitive, global economy. “I am proud to represent such an exceptional university that I know will reach even greater heights in the next 100 years.”
10.13.2009	Yesterday I had the honor of commemorating UW La Crosse's 100th birthday with a resolution on the floor of the House of Representatives. UW-L is a highly regarded public institution that prepares graduates well for today's global economy. I know the high caliber of these graduates, as I have seven of them currently on my staff.I would like to congratulate all of the UW-La Crosse faculty, staff, students and alumni, of the past 100 years, for the century of academic excellence. UW-L wouldn’t be the success that it is if it wasn’t for their hard work and dedication. The university has achieved so many great things over the past 100 years. I know that the faculty, staff and students of UW-La Crosse will achieve even more over the next 100 years.To read the full resolution and see me deliver the speech, click here.
10.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a bipartisan majority in Congress in supporting the Service Member Home Ownership Tax Act of 2009, H.R. 3590, a commonsense bill that takes steps to give our service men and women the same opportunity to become homeowners that every other citizen has enjoyed thanks to the Recovery Act. The bill includes provisions to extend the first-time homebuyer credit to service members overseas, legislation (H.R. 2562) introduced by Rep. Kind and co-sponsored by Rep. Steve Kagen (D-WI), in May of this year. “I am pleased that Congress has decided to move forward to include my legislation in this homeownership assistance package for our service members,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud to support our troops and veterans through this bill. Their dedicated service to securing our country is inspiring. Service members should have every opportunity to succeed and enhance their life when they return home, and this bill will help them do just that.”The Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act makes changes to several Recovery Act homeownership provisions in how they apply to military families, members of the Foreign Service, and members of the intelligence community. The bill extends the first-time homebuyer credit for service members who have served outside the country for at least three months in 2009. The $8,000 tax credit will now be available to service members for an additional year. The bill also prevents service members from having to repay the first-time homebuyer credit if they are forced to sell their home within three years of purchase due to deployment. Lastly, the bill expands the Homeowner’s Assistance Program (HAP) to ensure that certain payments under HAP, to assist military personnel selling a home that has declined in value, are exempt from tax. “Just this spring, Wisconsin saw the deployment of the largest group of National Guard members since the Second World War,” said Rep. Kind. “With our country involved in two conflicts overseas, these deployments exemplify the need to support our veterans and our troops, to ensure they have access to affordable housing here at home and assistance to manage that property while answering the call of duty.”
10.05.2009	Today I held an event at Riverside Park in La Crosse to talk about the Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act, legislation I recently reintroduced in the House of Representatives. The legislation calls for the development of a coordinated, public-private approach to studying and reducing nutrient and sediment runoff in the Upper Mississippi River Basin, so we can monitor and analyze the river in an effort to promote healthy water quality. While there is no easy solution to stopping the runoff of sediment and nutrients into the Upper Mississippi River Basin, this legislation will make significant strides toward reducing this flow of harmful pollutants into the river. I have worked closely with farmers, industry, sporting groups, conservation organizations, and government agencies to develop this effective, basin-wide, and non-regulatory approach, and am confident it will find support in both the House and the SenateAs Wisconsinites, I'm sure you know that the river plays a vital role in our economy and our quality of life here. This bill will lay the scientific foundation necessary to ensure the future quality and beauty of the Mississippi for generations to come.
10.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), who helped form the bipartisan Congressional Dairy Farmers Caucus, today had the opportunity to meet with Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to discuss the future of the dairy industry in today’s tough economy. “I am pleased that Secretary Vilsack is working to help support our dairy farmers as they weather this recession, including his efforts to remove excess product from the market to help bring up prices and rush payments to producers by the end of the year. His willingness to meet with the Dairy Caucus elevates the importance of the issue and is a step toward putting into place a national program that combats this dairy crisis. “I also applaud Senator Kohl and Representative Obey for their work to help farmers by including $350 million, $290 million of which is to be direct payments to farmers and $60 million in USDA purchase of cheese and other dairy products to be contributed to food banks to feed low-income families, in the Agriculture Appropriations conference report announced yesterday. This is a good start, but will not, on its own, solve the problems our producers face. “Based on my many discussions with family farmers back home, I’ve begun working on developing a national dairy policy to allow us to better plan for the ups and downs in the marketplace. I’ve also asked the Department of Agriculture to conduct a study on the relationship between milk prices at the source and retail level and the reasons for the disparity. “Our dairy farmers need help now and the additional assistance Congress is set to provide could not come sooner. I look forward to working with Secretary Vilsack to find additional short- and long-term solutions for the dairy industry so we can save farms and preserve the livelihood of farmers across the country.”
09.30.2009	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is quickly responding to the thousands of veterans who applied for educational benefits under the Post 9-11G.I. bill who have not received their government payments for tuition, housing and books. The VA announced this week that they are providing emergency checks, of up to $3,000, to help students make these payments. The checks will be distributed to eligible students at VA regional offices starting this Friday, October 2. Students can go to a regional benefit office - the closest are Milwaukee and St. Paul - with a photo ID, a course schedule and a certificate of eligibility to request advance payment of their education benefits. This money will be deducted from future payments, which are expected to arrive on the normal schedule – the beginning of the month following the period for which they are being reimbursed. I’m am pleased that the VA has moved quickly to remedy this problem to ensure that our brave veterans have the resources they need to take full advantage of the new G.I. Bill college benefits they were promised.Click here for a full list of regional benefit offices.
09.29.2009	Washington, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today reintroduced his Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act, legislation calling for the development of a coordinated, public-private approach to studying and reducing nutrient and sediment runoff in the Upper Mississippi River Basin. The bill also establishes a water-quality monitoring system and a computer modeling program to analyze data. “The river plays a vital role in our economy and our quality of life in western Wisconsin,” said Rep. Kind, founder and Co-chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force. “Increased sediment and nutrient flow into the upper basin poses a very serious threat to the long-term health of the entire Mississippi River system. This bill will lay the scientific foundation necessary to ensure the future quality and beauty of the Mississippi for generations to come.”The accumulation of excess sediment from increased soil erosion and nutrients, such as fertilizers and animal waste, in the Upper Mississippi River Basin degrades aquatic and wetland habitat and imperils a wide variety of fish and waterfowl. The increased soil erosion causes applied fertilizer from area farms to wash into the river, resulting not only in dangerously high nitrogen and phosphorous levels, but also a reduction in the long-term sustainability and income of family farms, and the plaguing of farmers annually with $300 million in unnecessary costs. In addition, sediment accumulation fills the main shipping channel of the river and valuable wetlands throughout the basin, reducing the value to wildlife and their capacity as nutrient filters and costing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers more than $100 million annually in dredging costs. The Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act aims to produce the data needed to better understand sediment and nutrient flow from its source in the landscape to its destination in rivers and lakes and drive the innovation needed to solve the excess sediment and nutrient problem in the Mississippi River System. The legislation establishes a sedimentation and nutrient reduction monitoring network and an integrated computer modeling program that, when combined, will provide the baseline data needed to make scientifically sound and cost-effective decisions to improve the Upper Mississippi River's ecosystem. “While there is no easy solution to stopping the runoff of sediment and nutrients into the Upper Mississippi River Basin, this legislation will make significant strides toward reducing this flow of harmful pollutants into the river. I have worked closely with farmers, industry, sporting groups, conservation organizations, and government agencies to develop this effective, basin-wide, and non-regulatory approach, and am confident it will find support in both the House and the Senate.”The reintroduction of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act is particularly timely considering the Mississippi River Basin Initiative introduced by Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack late last week. The USDA initiative aims to improve the overall health of the entire Mississippi River, as opposed to the current regional approaches, and provides $320 million for improvement projects in states bordering the river. Together, the two efforts will take important steps to maintain and improve the overall health of one of America’s most central water resources.The Upper Mississippi River system, with tributaries and a basin encompassing much of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri, is widely recognized as one of our nation’s great multi-use natural resources. The Mississippi River and its tributaries provide drinking water to approximately 22 million Americans and the system’s 1,300 navigable miles transport millions of tons of commercial cargo via barges. In addition, 40 percent of North America’s waterfowl use the wetlands and backwaters of the main stem as a migratory flyway, illustrating the environmental significance of the system as well as recreation capabilities
09.28.2009	A new, interactive Recovery.gov website was launched today. It is designed to help you as taxpayers track exactly how money is being spent under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. There is also a new, toll-free Fraud Hotline – 1-877-FWA-DESK (1-877-392-3375) – that you can use to report fraud in your communities. I think you'll find the redesigned site more user-friendly. It features new graphs and interactive maps that make it easy to find detailed information about stimulus projects in Wisconsin as well as in each county and neighborhood. It also includes links to various social media sites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and MySpace, so you can easily find the information you need.Check it out here.Also be sure to check out Wisconsin specific facts and figures here.
09.25.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voiced his support of the Mississippi River Basin Initiative introduced by Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack yesterday. The major initiative aims to improve the overall health of the entire Mississippi River, as opposed to the current regional approaches, and provides $320 million for improvement projects in states bordering the river. “I applaud the Administration for taking this important step to maintain and improve the overall health of one of our most central water resources,” said Rep. Kind. “This initiative to focus our resources to protect the integrity of the river system and help us reduce the flow of sediments and nutrients into the river, is perfectly in line with the legislation I have worked on and championed in Congress for years. As founder and Co-Chair of the Upper Mississippi River Basin Congressional Task Force, I’m devoted to finding effective and balanced solutions to foster sustainable development on the river. Working to protect water quality promotes public health, restores natural resources and stimulates economic development.”Kind is also a former Co-Chair, and current member, of the Congressional Sportsmen's Caucus, a bipartisan alliance of members of Congress who support fishing, hunting and conservation. He also founded the National Wildlife Refuge Caucus, which advocates for adequate refuge budgets and supports the strategic growth of the Refuge.
09.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to support an extension of unemployment insurance benefits to those hit hardest in the recession. The Unemployment Compensation Act of 2009 will provide immediate assistance, extending relief to the estimated 314,000 workers who would otherwise run out of unemployment benefits by the end of September, and one million more whose benefits would run out by the end of the year, without adding to the national debt.“This bill provides crucial support for those in western Wisconsin who have lost their jobs in this tough economic time, in a way that is fiscally responsible,” said Rep. Kind. “Not only are we providing stability to those whose incomes are most vulnerable but we are also helping consumers purchase necessities for their families, stimulating the economy, as well as continue their mortgage payments, reducing foreclosures.”The bill amends the current Emergency Unemployment Compensation program to provide up to another 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in high unemployment states, including Wisconsin. High unemployment states are defined as those having a seasonally-adjusted, three month average total unemployment rate of 8.5 percent or a 13-week insured unemployment rate above six percent. “This bill complies with the Democratic principle of pay-as-you-go budgeting, allowing me to help those in need while being a good steward of taxpayer dollars and working to turn our economy around.” The cost of this legislation would be completely offset by continued extension of the 30-year old federal unemployment tax as well as by requiring that current reporting on newly hired employees include the date work started to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments.
09.17.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted for the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college. The passage of the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will not only help a student graduate with less debt, but stabilizes the student loan program, invests in education, and helps build a stronger, more competitive American economy while reducing the national debt. “For 35 years, the government has subsidized private lenders to provide student loans while also guaranteeing the payment of those loans,” said Rep. Kind. “Unfortunately, this system no longer works. The new loan program can be run at a lower cost, saving taxpayers money, and will be more stable, guaranteeing students access to aid in any economy.” Funds available under the bill will help more students and leave them with less debt. Over the next 10 years, the bill invests nearly $500 million in Pell Grants to Wisconsin students, increasing the number of students receiving grants by 75 percent and doubling the amount of funding for grant awards. Funding from this bill will also strengthen the Perkins Loan program by offering lower interest rates. The bill also establishes the Direct Loan program, a less expensive and more streamlined option, to be run by the Department of Education. Funded directly by the government, parents and students won’t have to worry about whether or not fluctuations in the financial market will hurt their access to low-cost student loans. The private lending industry will continue to play a role in a public-private partnership by servicing loans; but by eliminating the lending middleman, the new program will save taxpayers $87 billion over 10 years. Savings generated from this bill will be used to reduce the deficit by $10 billion and will also be invested back into education. The bill invests in community colleges, providing the tools necessary to successfully educate and train a workforce for the 21st Century. An Early Learning Challenge Fund, based on a bill Rep. Kind introduced previously and has championed for years, will be established to increase quality learning opportunities for low-income children. Investments will also be made in school modernization, renovation, and repair projects in order to provide world-class learning environments for our children.
09.17.2009	The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which I voted for today in the House, is the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college. This bill is a win -win. Its passage will not only help a student graduate with less debt, but will ease the financial aid application process, stabilize the student loan program, save taxpayers money, use that savings to invest in education, and help us build a stronger, more competitive American economy while reducing the national debt. I am happy to have supported this bill. Investing in our students is investing in our future. We must make sure students have the tools they need - including access to financial aid - to reach their academic potential and succeed in this growing global economy.
09.15.2009	There are quite a few myths out there regarding health care reform and H.R. 3200. But there are also some credible sites that dispell these myths with accurate, easy to understand information. Please visit these links to help clarify what the House health care reform bill contains and what that means for you:Health Insurance Reform Daily MythbusterFactcheck.orgMedia Matters for America
09.11.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today discussed The FIT Kids Act, legislation designed to strengthen physical education programs in schools and teach children healthy habits as well as presented a check to the county for their Heal Obesity program at a press conference at Sand Lake Elementary in Holmen, Wis. “Combating childhood obesity remains a key initiative of mine, especially as we look to reforming physical education programs in our schools,” said Rep. Kind. “As health care concerns plague our country, one of the most important things we can do is instill in our children healthy eating and physical activity habits. Preventative measures that we can take now will help our kids grow up to lead healthy, active adult lifestyles.”Childhood obesity in the United States has reached epidemic proportions. The childhood obesity rate has tripled since 1980 resulting in 25 million children in America who are currently obese. It is estimated that by 2010, 20 percent of children in the U.S. will be obese. Researchers suggest that the childhood obesity epidemic is largely due to a decline in regular physical activity and a diet high in empty and fat-laden calories. A lack of regular physical activity not only hurts a child’s health, it can also affect his or her academic development, as research also shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers. The FIT Kids Act would engage parents and the public by requiring all schools, districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard. The Act would further ensure appropriate professional development for health and physical education teachers. And it would fund research to examine the link between children’s health and their academic achievement, and recommend effective ways to combat childhood obesity and improve healthy living and physical activity.Heal Obesity, a local three-part program to combat childhood obesity and run by La Crosse County, recently received a $330,000 grant from the Department of Health and Human Services National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion program. “We are excited by the possibilities this funding offers”, said Linda Lee, Nutrition Manager for the La Crosse County Health Department. “The Health Department will be able to work with many different groups in the community to help families develop healthy eating habits and an active lifestyle. Our goal is to make healthy choices the easy choice so that preschool and school age children and their families develop healthy eating and activity habits that last a lifetime.”The first part of the program, Fit Families, is a year-long effort to help preschool children and their families develop healthy eating and activity habits through monthly goal setting and counseling. Federal funding will allow the county to expand this program outside of the 600 WIC (Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children) families it currently touches in the state, to approximately 80 additional families in La Crosse County Head Start. The second part of Heal Obesity is an effort to include obesity prevention initiatives as part of the health education curriculum in K-8 education across the county. Together with the Children’s Health Education Center in Milwaukee, La Crosse County will offer K-3 and 4-8 obesity prevention programs for inclusion in health education curriculum. The federal grant has made it possible for the K-8 wellness curriculum to be implemented in three school districts in La Crosse County this fall. A health provider training component rounds out the third part of Heal Obesity. The training element provides obesity prevention training to primary care physicians and their staff in La Crosse County. The program focuses on a motivational method of talking with patients about wellness issues, encouraging them to develop healthier habits, and is designed so that providers will be better able to detect habits that are potential red flags for an unhealthy lifestyle. “I am pleased that La Crosse County has received this grant to help jumpstart healthy lifestyles in our kids,” said Rep. Kind. “We must do something to reverse the trends in childhood obesity and chronic illness now.”
09.10.2009	We're back at it here in Washington, working to get important legislation, like health care reform, done. Over the recess I heard a lot of your questions, concerns, and feedback, which I will use here in D.C. in this health care debate. I also hope you tuned in to the President's address last night. I think he made some very good points. Although there has been some disagreement on what the legislation should look like, the President was right in saying that virtually everyone agrees with 80 percent of the reform we are working on. Things like the national exchange to lower costs for small businesses and family farmers and provide access to more individuals, the emphasis on the quality of care versus quantity to make sure we get the best care for the best price, reforming insurance rules to keep people from being dropped and eliminating discrimination against pre-existing conditions, and a focus on wellness and prevention to keep us healthier, all have widespread agreement. The President also, very importantly, dispelled some of those myths about health care reform that have been going around. Instead of having an honest debate we’ve too often had scare tactics, which unfortunately haven't helped us get the right information out there to the people who need it. We must move past this. But what I felt was one of the most powerful parts of the address was what President Obama said in his conclusion. He said that America's character is not defined by fearing for the future but by helping to shape it. This is crucial when it comes to health care reform. Health care is an issue that transcends every individual and all political parties. We need a unique American solution for unique American problem. We need to shape the future of our health care system and the time to act is now.
08.27.2009	Over the last two weeks I've held four town hall listening sessions and one telephone town hall. I was pleased that nearly 2,500 people from across the were able to participate in the live meetings and another 6,750 joined me on the call. In these meetings we were able to address a lot of questions and concerns that I hope will help Wisconsinites feel more comfortable with the health care reform efforts currently on the table. I also want to thank everyone for sharing their opinions and feedback. Through these meetings I have been able to gather valuable information that I will use when making decisions about this important legislation. Please feel free to contact my office with any other questions or comments you'd like to share.
08.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today urged the Ways and Mean Social Security Subcommittee to hold a hearing examining the lack of cost of living adjustment (COLA) to be provided to Social Security recipients in 2010. “Social Security is an important program that helps us provide for our seniors,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “In an economic downturn, any impact on a senior’s income is felt particularly hard. In addition, with rising health care and housing costs, seniors across the state have expressed concern about receiving no adjustment. We must take a look at the zero percent COLA to be provided next year to make sure we are treating our seniors fairly.” Each year, the Social Security Administration uses a formula set by law to determine the COLA for Social Security recipients. Due to low inflation, for the first time since 1975, recipients will not receive a cost of living adjustment in 2010. At this time, more than 50 million people receive Social Security.
08.11.2009	I have updated the locations of all four of my health care town hall meetings and wanted to make sure you had the most up-to-date information. Please see below for details.Tuesday, August 18th3:00-4:30pm*Richland Center High School1996 Hwy 14 WestRichland Center, WIThursday, August 20th11:00am-12:30pm*Tomah High School Auditorium901 Lincoln AveTomah, WI 54660Friday, August 21st11:00am-12:30pm*Whitehall High School Auditorium19121 Hobson StWhitehall, WI 54773-8652Tuesday, August 25th12:30-2:00pm*Darlington High School11838 Center Hill RdDarlington, WI 53530-9605Tuesday, August 25th6:30-7:30pmSince I will not be able to visit every county this August, I also plan to hold a health care telephone town hall. Interested constituents can dial-in to the telephone town hall by calling (toll-free) 1-877-229-8493 and entering the code 13433.
08.10.2009	We are working to enact health care reform legislation that protects what works about health care and fixes what is broken. Inaction is not an option. Sky-rocketing health care costs are hurting Wisconsin families, forcing businesses to cut or drop health benefits, and straining budgets. Millions are paying more for less. Families and businesses in Wisconsin deserve better.WISCONSINITES CAN’T AFFORD THE STATUS QUORoughly 3.7 million people in Wisconsin get health insurance on the job, where family premiums average $13,488, about the annual earning of a full-time minimum wage job. Since 2000 alone, average family premiums have increased by 90 percent in Wisconsin. Household budgets are strained by high costs: 17 percent of middle-income Wisconsin families spend more than 10 percent of their income on health care. High costs block access to care: 8 percent of people in Wisconsin report not visiting a doctor due to high costs. Wisconsin businesses and families shoulder a hidden health tax of roughly $900 per year on premiums as a direct result of subsidizing the costs of the uninsured.AFFORDABLE HEALTH COVERAGE IS INCREASINGLY OUT OF REACH IN WISCONSIN9 percent of people in Wisconsin are uninsured, and 67 percent of them are in families with at least one full-time worker. The percent of Wisconsinites with employer coverage is declining: from 74 to 67 percent between 2000 and 2007. Much of the decline is among workers in small businesses. While small businesses make up 77 percent of Wisconsin businesses, only 41 percent of them offered health coverage benefits in 2006 -- down 7 percent since 2000 due to cost. Choice of health insurance is limited in Wisconsin. Blue Cross Blue Shield WI alone constitutes a dominant percent of the health insurance market share in Wisconsin. Choice is even more limited for people with pre-existing conditions. In Wisconsin, premiums can vary based on demographic factors and health status, and coverage can exclude pre-existing conditions or even be denied completely.We cannot sit back and do nothing. We must reform our heatlh care system. See the Department of Health and Human Services for more statistics on how health care reform affects Wisconsin.
08.03.2009	I am traveling the district this August to meet with the people of western Wisconsin. This is one of my favorite parts of the job - hearing what you think. Due to the importance and immediacy of the health care debate, during the recess I will be holding four health care focused listening sessions across the district. These listening sessions provide a great opportunity for you to share with me your thoughts and views, as well as to find out more about my work in Washington. Please bring any questions, comments or concerns you have, I am happy to discuss them with you. Tuesday, August 18th3:00-4:00pmCounty CourthouseConference Room 2 - First Floor181 W Seminary St.Richland Center, WI 53581-2356Thursday, August 20th11:00am-12:30pm Tomah High School Auditorium901 Lincoln AveTomah, WI 54660Friday, August 21st11:00am-12:30pmWhitehall High School Auditorium19121 Hobson StWhitehall, WI 54773-8652Tuesday, August 25th12:30-2:00pmDarlington Memorial HospitalConference Room800 Clay St.Darlington, WI 53530
07.31.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Appropriations Committee yesterday passed the final appropriations bill of the 2009 cycle. Committed to fiscal discipline, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted against four of the 12 bills due to costly earmarks and unnecessary spending. “These bills represent real dollars being spent,” said Rep. Kind. “Especially in this tough economic time, we must look out for excessive spending. As a watchful steward of the taxpayer dollar, I continue to focus on fiscal responsibility and refrain from personally requesting earmarks.” The annual appropriations cycle includes 12 bills that fund the federal government. Rep. Kind voted against four of this year’s bills due to the excessive earmarks contained within the bills among other things. Many of the appropriations bills also included budget requests of billions of dollars more than requested for 2009. For example, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act requested $14.1 billion more than last year and included 1,000 earmarks, totaling $534 million. In full, Rep. Kind voted against 2,041earmarks in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development; Energy and Water, Agriculture, and Legislative Branch Appropriations Bills. In February of 2009, Rep. Kind also voted against the Omnibus bill which contained some 9,000 earmarks. “As someone who investigated some of Senator Bill Proxmire’s Golden Fleece awards, I am committed to fiscal responsibility. I’ve called for the creation of two bipartisan commissions - one to examine the earmark process so that we might be able to further reform our spending habits and one to assess entitlement reform, to address our nation’s $99.2 trillion in Medicare and Social Security obligations. I also just recently voted in favor of the Statutory PAYGO Act, an important step to put us back on the path of fiscal restraint. We must practice fiscal discipline, invest wisely and reduce our deficit in order to get our economy back on track.”
07.31.2009	I voted today to divert $2 billion, previously approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act earlier this year, to provide additional funding to the Cash for Clunkers program. I’m pleased to see the Cash for Clunkers program motivating consumers to trade in less fuel efficient cars. The incentives are not only spurring growth for the auto industry but by getting money flowing into the economy, helping it down the path to recovery. This commonsense program deserves additional federal support as we seek to get our economy moving again, save consumers money, and reduce our gasoline consumption in an effort to grow our clean energy economy. Not only does the bill help our auto industry manage this tough time, but it saves and creates good-paying American jobs and strengthens our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil. I encourage consumers to continue to take advantage of this opportunity.
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to support our troops through pay raises, equipment replacement, and training programs, in the Defense Appropriations Bill H.R. 3326. “I am committed to supporting our men and women that work so hard to defend this country,” said Rep. Kind. “Through this bill, we are looking out for their health and safety, making sure they have access to effective programs and the tools they need to get the job done.”The bill includes a 3.4 percent pay increase for military personnel, $8.3 million for "stop loss”, which pays troops $500 for every month their term of service is extended, and $11 billion for critical readiness training to prepare troops for missions. In addition, the bill supports additional protection for U.S. troops and preparation efforts to begin withdrawal from Iraq, providing funding to train and equip the Afghan national security forces and prohibiting the establishment of permanent bases in Iraq or Afghanistan. Rep. Kind voted for various amendments to the bill that would have stripped out 553 earmarks, which individual members had included, totaling just over one billion dollars in additional spending for private-for profit entities. “Upholding my commitment to fiscal responsibility, I could not support the member earmarks intended for private, for-profit companies and voted to remove this unnecessary spending from the bill. I support the overall package to provide for our troops but must stress the importance of finding savings to combat rising budget deficits.”
07.28.2009	Every day, too many Americans worry about their health care. I’ve heard health care concerns from people across western Wisconsin. Many are fortunate to have coverage, but often it costs too much and doesn’t cover everything they need. People tell me that they are concerned about being one layoff away from being uninsured or one catastrophic illness from going bankrupt. If we do nothing, we will continue to pay more and get less. Health care costs are expected to make up 18 percent of our national economy in 2009, 34 percent by 2040. It is the fastest growing area of spending in the federal budget, adding to budget deficits and leaving a legacy of debt to our children. In Wisconsin, health care costs grew five times faster than wages in the last nine years, eroding the salaries and wages of workers. Rising health care costs causes 230 people in our state, 14,000 nationwide, to lose their health care every day. This is a unique American challenge in need of a unique American solution. We must to better.We must lower the cost of health care and increase access to stable coverage. Many of our uninsured are part of the working population but simply cannot afford coverage. Small businesses are struggling to afford health insurance coverage and are forced to pass greater costs on to their employees or drop coverage altogether. I introduced the SHOP Act earlier this year to create a national pool that would allow small businesses and family farmers to come together to offer affordable health insurance to employees. I am pleased that the SHOP Act, including small business tax credits to offset the cost of health insurance, is included in the current health care reform bill being considered in Congress. The reform must also be completely paid for and not add a nickel to the national deficit, ensuring the affordability of care while at the same time guaranteeing our country isn’t driven further into debt as we seek to change the health care system.In order to increase access to affordable coverage we must make sure no one is denied coverage, specifically due to pre-existing conditions. Reform seeks to build on the existing system so that if you like your employer sponsored health insurance, you can keep it. The main goal is to reduce costs. Health care reform efforts would create a new national exchange through which millions of Americans, with the help of affordability credits, could buy affordable health insurance from a selection of health insurance plans that are completely transparent on the prices charged and the services covered. Making sure all Americans have health insurance will prevent the cost shifting that adds about $1,100 per year to a person’s health care costs. How do we fix this? We need a health care system that pays for the value of care given, not the volume of care given. Our current system pays for the number of procedures ordered instead of the quality of care provided; resulting in wasteful spending that doesn’t help the patient. Currently, $680 billion, almost one-third of the amount spent on health care every year, goes to care and treatment that doesn’t work. Fortunately for western Wisconsin, President Obama is pointing to our providers as models of health care to lead the nation. Providers such as the Mayo system, Gunderson Lutheran, and Marshfield Clinic are providing high quality care at one of the lowest costs in the country. By conducting comparative effectiveness studies to find out what works and what does not and employing health information technology to connect health systems, doctors across the country will be able to better and more cost effectively serve patients, just as we do here in western Wisconsin. Comprehensive health care reform cannot wait. In order to ensure the sustainability of our health care system, we must provide stable, affordable, high quality health care to all Americans, regardless of health status or occupation.
07.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today thanked local firefighters and discussed federal legislation in support of firefighters at a press conference in La Crosse.Rep. Kind has long been a strong supporter of firefighters. For years he has supported the Fire Grants Program, to help fire departments acquire equipment and training and the SAFER Program, to increase staffing and deployment capabilities. Recently, the House passed the 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2892), providing $810 million for firefighter assistance, including $390 million for the Fire Grants Program and $420 million for SAFER. While the SAFER level matches the Administration's request, the House increased the allocations for the Fire Grants Program in order to meet the vast equipment needs of fire departments across the nation. Given the national economic downturn and local budgetary cutbacks that many fire departments are now facing, Rep. Kind supported this measure. “From our biggest cities to our smallest towns, Wisconsin’s 898 fire departments not only provide an essential service, but also shape the identity of many of our communities,” said Rep. Kind. “I want to thank our firefighters not only for their hard work and dedication but also for the pride they bring to western Wisconsin. I understand the important of firefighters and first responders to the safety and health of our communities and along with Congress am committed to ensuring that our firefighters have the support they need.”In the 110th Congress, Rep Kind cosponsored two pieces of legislation to provide tax relief to volunteer firefighters and emergency medical responders. The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2007, which did not make it out of committee, excluded volunteer firefighters and emergency medical responders from taxes on benefits provided to them. The Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008, which was enacted into law, provides exemptions from certain state and local payments to and benefits for volunteer firefighters and emergency medical responders.Currently in the 111th Congress, Rep. Kind is a cosponsor of the Federal Firefighters Fairness Act of 2009, which ensures that firefighters receive the same access to job-related disability and retirement benefits as state, county and municipal firefighters and directs the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health to examine health risks associated with firefighting. Rep. Kind is also a cosponsor of The Firefighter Fatality Reduction Act of 2009, which promotes the adoption of national standards for safe fire department operations to safeguard the lives and health of firefighters. “Congress will continue to make sure that our firefighters have the tools and resources they need to perform their job so that they can continue their role as vital members to our communities. Again I thank you all of our firefighters and safety providers for their dedicated and self-less service to our state.”
07.23.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that individuals interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies must submit their applications by Friday, October 16, 2009.“I am always impressed by the highly motivated and disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” said Rep. Kind. “Each year I am able to nominate some of western Wisconsin’s best and brightest students to become the military leaders of the future, and I again look forward to meeting this year’s applicants.”A congressional nomination is required for students wishing to enter the:• U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York• U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland• U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; and• Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New YorkThe application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate and between the ages of 17 and 22 by July 1, 2010, and is unmarried with no dependents. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance the following year.Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting MarkAumann in Rep. Ron Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official Web site: www.house.gov/kind.
07.22.2009	I voted today in favor the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009, H.R. 2920, because it helps get the budget under control, restore fiscal discipline, and strengthen the American economy. The ‘pay as you go’ rule is very simple. Congress can only spend a dollar if it saves a dollar elsewhere. This is the same guiding principle that Wisconsin families have always used to balance their checkbooks. It is also the same principle that Congress used in the 1990s to turn historic deficits into historic surpluses. We need to get back to fiscal discipline in order to turn our economy around. The PAYGO bill that passed the House today is similar to the statutory PAYGO law that was in place in the 1990s, which helped turn massive deficits into four years of budget surpluses. The Republican-controlled Congress and President Bush allowed these rules to expire in 2002, which contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of more than $11 trillion.As a former intern of Senator Bill Proxmire, I am committed to fiscal responsibility and will continue to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars. While this bill will not solve all of our fiscal problems, it is an important step to put us back on the path of fiscal restraint. We must reduce the deficit in order to stop borrowing money from other countries and not leave a legacy of debt for our children.
07.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted in favor of H.R. 2920, the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009, a commonsense bill to get the budget under control, restore fiscal discipline, and strengthen the American economy. “The ‘pay as you go’ rule is very simple,” said Rep. Kind. “Congress can only spend a dollar if it saves a dollar elsewhere. This is the same guiding principle that Wisconsin families have always used to balance their checkbooks. It is also the same principle that Congress used in the 1990s to turn historic deficits into historic surpluses. We need to get back to fiscal discipline in order to turn our economy around.” The Statutory PAYGO Act will help restore fiscal order to the federal budget, requiring Congress to pay for the costs of tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. The bill also requires that all new policies reducing revenues or expanding spending must be offset. This will force Congress to seriously examine wasteful spending and tax loopholes. Finally, if Congress fails to pay for the costs of new policies by the end of each year, the legislation requires annual mandatory spending, on programs such as Social Security and Medicaid, automatically be cut. The PAYGO bill that passed the House today is similar to the statutory PAYGO law that was in place in the 1990s, which helped turn massive deficits into four years of budget surpluses. The Republican-controlled Congress and President Bush allowed these rules to expire in 2002, which contributed to the dramatic turnaround from a projected surplus of $5.6 trillion to projected deficits of more than $11 trillion.“As a former intern of Senator Bill Proxmire, I am committed to fiscal responsibility and will continue to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars. While this bill will not solve all of our fiscal problems, it is an important step to put us back on the path of fiscal restraint. We must reduce the deficit in order to stop borrowing money from other countries and not leave a legacy of debt for our children.”
07.15.2009	As part of the Obama's Administration's Rural Tour, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, and U.S. Secretary of Transportation, Ray La Hood, visited La Crosse today. The secretaries hosted a community forum on rual economic development where they shared information on the administration's efforts to revitalize and rebuild rural America. I am pleased that the secretaries were able to visit our district to hear from you the challenges and opportunities you are facing in our small towns, find out how their departments can be helpful in supporting programs in our communities, and discuss with you how we can work together with the state and federal government to strengthen rural America. As always, please be in touch with my office if there are additional concerns you have and/or if you have ideas on how we can strengthen rural America.
07.13.2009	Health care reform legislation is slated to be voted on by the House this month. With this in mind, I have been traveling the district hearing from the people of western Wisconsin their encounters with the current health care system. These personal stories are highly influential and help me better understand the health care needs of the district as I work to make health more affordable and available for everyone. I urge you to share your personal stories about what has worked and what hasn’t worked for you in the current health care system. You can send me your stories two ways. By mail:1406 Longworth HOBWashington, D.C. 20515 Or by email, click here. Thank you in advance for your help!
07.10.2009	I am pleased to see a significant amount of funding from the Recovery Act flowing into our district. These funds are helping businesses stay open, maintaining and creating jobs in western Wisconsin. Our natural resources are being protected, our infrastructure repaired and our military supported. I am also pleased to see the amount of funding going to our school districts, helping keep talented teachers in our schools and providing students with the quality education they deserve. In fact, $34 million has been released to the Third Congressional District specifically for education.Click here to see a detailed breakdown of recover dollars allocated to each county in the district.
07.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced his co-sponsorship of a bill to keep federally funded auto companies from unfairly closing dealerships across the country. The Automobile Dealers Economic Rights Restoration Act requires automakers who have taken government funding, such as General Motors and Chrysler, to reinstate franchise agreements with dealerships they have dropped as part of their recent bankruptcy proceedings. Rep. Kind made the following statement:“We want to preserve the rights of auto dealers who work so hard to keep their business up and running and make sure they are protected under state franchise laws. This bill supports the business of local dealers, protects jobs in our communities, and provides fairness in the market, ensuring competitive prices for consumers in this tough economy.“Last week, I met with hundreds of people across western Wisconsin. I consistently heard concerns about the arbitrary closing of local auto dealerships by Chrysler and General Motors. In Reedsburg, I received a petition with more than 1,200 signatures asking Congress to help address this unfair situation. “That is why I have taken a number of steps to send a strong message to Chrysler and General Motors that taxpayers’ dollars should not be used to rescind franchise agreements. Not only do I support this bill to protect auto dealers, but I have also communicated with the head of the Auto Task Force asking the Administration to review auto company decisions for closings and have met with Troy Clarke, President of General Motors North American, to express my concerns and ask him to personally review the dealership closings in western Wisconsin.“In this tough economic time, I will continue to follow this situation closely and do everything possible to ensure that jobs in our communities are maintained and the rights of small businesses protected.”
07.07.2009	Last week, Vice President Biden and Secretary Locke announced the availability of $4 billion in Recovery Act grants to help bring broadband service to communities across America. Understanding how crucial this is to business and economic development in the district, I am pleased that funds for high speed internet are being made available. Funding for expanded access will help telecommunications companies lay the infrastructure to be able to offer broadband service in currently unserved and underserved areas, to enhance broadband capacity at public computer centers such as community colleges and public libraries, and to encourage sustainable adoption of broadband service. Through this support, we will also advance the Recovery Act’s objectives to spur job creationand stimulate long-term economic growth and opportunity. I am looking forward to the opportunity this will create for the residents of western Wisconsin.
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today for moving America toward clean energy in a landmark bill that invests in America’s future. The American Clean Energy Security Act, (ACES), is legislation designed to put into place a new American energy plan that creates millions of American jobs, increases national security by decreasing dependence on foreign energy, and reduces pollution to protect the health of all Americans. “The status quo energy policy is unacceptable,” said Rep. Kind. “Taking action to combat global climate change is crucial. This bill offers us the opportunity to remake our energy infrastructure to create high-paying jobs here in America, 4,400 jobs in the Third Congressional District alone, buy less oil from overseas lessening our dependence on foreign sources of energy, and improve the health of our population and environment.”The American Clean Energy and Security Act takes important steps in helping enact a new American energy plan and will play a large role in economic growth, creating millions of new American clean energy jobs that can’t be shipped overseas. The bill requires electric utilities to meet 20 percent of their electricity demand through renewable energy sources and energy efficiency by 2020 and also mandates new energy-saving standards for buildings, appliances, and industry. ACES invests in new clean energy technologies and energy efficiency, including renewable energy, carbon capture and sequestration, electric and other advanced technology vehicles, and basic scientific research and development. These standards will increase energy production across the U.S., decreasing America’s dependence on foreign oil and strengthening national security. ACES also seeks to protect the environment by reducing carbon emissions from major U.S. sources by 17 percent by 2020 and over 80 percent by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. The bill will achieve its goals at a low cost to consumers over the next several years. According to estimates, the reductions in carbon pollution required by the legislation will, by 2020, cost American families less than a postage stamp per day. For Wisconsin families, this transition to a clean energy economy will slowly increase to cost up to about $169 annually, and for almost 40 percent of the households in the district - an estimated 113,000 households - average annual costs will be less than $40.The alternative to the American Clean Energy and Security Act is regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency, which was given authority to regulate green house gas emissions earlier this year by the Supreme Court. Passing the ACES Act into law would prevent the EPA from placing difficult new restrictions on industry that will be even more costly than the system being considered by Congress.“Although the current bill offers consumer protection against rising energy costs, I believe we could have done more. I am disappointed we did not have more time to better address the economic impact on consumers and debate the cost of the legislation more fully. I hate to impose even this small increase on consumers, especially those in western Wisconsin, in this tough economic time. And while unequal treatment of rural utilities remains, I am pleased to see concessions made for them, as well as strengthened provisions for farmers so that they may benefit from carbon mitigation. This is a work in progress and there is still much work to be done. I hope that by working to improve this bill with the Senate, we can accomplish more for family budgets and rural districts such as our own.”
06.24.2009	This week the House passed a number of bills to support our veterans. Our service members and their families have sacrificed greatly for our country and should have full access to the benefits they deserve. These bills are a step in the right direction and are helping us take care of our veterans, especially in this tough economy. H.R. 2990: The Disabled Military Retiree Relief Act allows disabled military retirees to concurrently receive their retirement and disability benefits and makes several important changes to the retirement system for federal employees.H.R. 1172: directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to include a list of organizations that provide scholarships to veterans and their survivors on the Department of Veterans Affairs website, to make these resources for accessible for our veterans. The following two bills passed the House yesterday, helping us create a healthier America by strengthening health care for our veterans. H.R. 1016: The Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009 provides advanced appropriated funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs health care services to help ensure sufficient and timely funding for care and benefits for our veterans. H.R. 1211: The Women Veterans Health Care Improvement Act expands and improves health care services available to an increasing number of women veterans, especially those serving in Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. This bill will study the barriers to women veterans seeking health care, examine the current state of women’s health care programs and enhance PTSD and other trauma programs at the VA specifically designed for women.
06.22.2009	I recently held a telephone town hall meeting where I was able to address many of the details of health care reform with people throughout western Wisconsin. Over 2,300 constituents called in to hear me discuss health care, share their ideas on the topic, and ask me questions on a variety of health care concerns. We face unique American challenges in reforming our health care system which will require a unique American solution. Without health care reform we will continue to pay more and get less. We need a new health care system that costs less while providing better care than our system today. Fortunately, in our area, health care providers are showing us by example how this can be done. Our current health care system pays based on the quantity of health care services provided rather than the quality, taking the focus off the value of care delivered. For this reason, during the town hall I asked callers how they thought doctors should get paid. 92% said doctors should be paid based on quality of care they provide8% said based on number of tests and procedures performedIt is obvious that people in western Wisconsin agree that our current health care system doesn’t value the quality of care enough. Right now, approximately one-third of money spent on health care, over $600 billion every year, is wasted on care and treatment that doesn’t improve the patient’s health, pushing our country and Wisconsin families further into debt. If we do nothing to reform our health care system, our economy will continue to suffer. In fact, in Wisconsin alone health care premiums grew almost five times faster than wages in the last nine years and are predicted to cost families almost 50 percent of their household income by 2016. In a tough economic time, reforming the health care system will save money, create jobs, and help put us on a path toward recovery. We must reform our system to make sure stable coverage is available to everyone even if you get sick or switch jobs. And we must lower health care costs for everyone, including those who already have coverage, so that more families can afford the quality health care they need.
06.17.2009	I now have an official profile on Facebook and hope you will add me as your friend!. I want to use Facebook to better connect with more of you - to share videos, photos and updates so you can see what I'm up to both at home and in Washington.
06.17.2009	Washington, DC – In his continuing effort to find ways to bolster small business growth and investment, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) a member of the powerful tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, has co-authored the S Corporation Modernization Act of 2009 (H.R. 2910), which would modify an unreasonable penalty paid by “S corporations.” A bipartisan group of members including Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-PA), and Rep. Wally Herger (R-CA) have co-sponsored the bill. “This bill is a commonsense tax code change that will have huge returns in terms of growth and investment for S corporations,” said Rep. Kind. “Especially in this tough economic time, my goal is to look out for the small and family-owned businesses which drive our economy. This bill speaks to that, reducing a penalty on S corporations, and thus encouraging them to reinvest the savings into growing their business and creating jobs.”There are 3.8 million registered S corporations nationwide, 59,000 in Wisconsin alone. S corporations are small and family-owned businesses that have between 1 and 100 shareholders and are taxed differently than large corporations. Right now, S corporations are taxed twice on assets they sell within 10 years of converting to this tax classification – making the sale and reinvestment of these assets prohibitively expensive and hindering growth and job creation. In some states, the double-tax burden can reach as high as 70 percent. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act changed the law from requiring S corporations to hold on to unproductive and inefficient assets for 10 years to now requiring their ownership for only seven years, a more realistic business cycle and the same modernized exception Rep. Kind pushed in the 110th Congress. This seven year requirement is only in effect through 2010, at which time S corporations will again be required to hold assets for 10 years, limiting cash flow and availability and encouraging excess borrowing. To provide permanent relief, the S Corporation Modernization Act of 2009 would allow S corporations to liquidate unproductive assets after seven years – freeing up capital to be used to grow the business and create new jobs. “The seven year requirement enacted through the Recovery Act is helping S corporations successfully manage their business in this economy, proving it a necessary update to current law. In the long run, a three-year reduction in this unreasonable and unproductive penalty will help ease the overall tax burden on small and family-owned businesses and help them grow and prosper in an increasingly competitive market,” Rep. Kind added.“Throughout his tenure, Congressman Kind has been a tireless champion and friend to the small businesses community and his introduction of the S Corporation Modernization Act is another example of how he values Main Street businesses and the workers they employ,” said Dick Roderick of the Dead River Company and Chairman of the S Corporation Association. “Ron Kind has repeatedly proven himself to be a friend of private enterprise in Wisconsin. This legislation will help Appleton Papers and many other Wisconsin-based S corporations confront this difficult economy and emerge even stronger,” said Mark Richards, Chairman, President and CEO of Appleton Papers.
06.16.2009	Tomorrow evening I will be hosting a LIVE telephone town hall to hear your thoughts and ideas on the topic of health care reform. Health care is a pressing issue that I know is important to many of you. Please join me on the call tomorrow - Wednesday - at 6:40pm Central. You'll have the chance listen to my thoughts on this topic as well as to ask questions and share feedback with me directly from your home.To join the call, please call 1-877-229-8493 and enter the code 13433.I look forward to hearing from you tomorrow!
06.11.2009	Return to Newsroom.newsdiv { width: 515px; border: 1px solid #5C7A97; background-color:#fff; padding:0px; margin-top:-10px; display: inline; margin-bottom:10px; margin-right:60px; margin-top:10px; } .newsYear {margin-top:5px; margin-left:5px;} .newsMonth ul { list-style-type: none; list-style-image: none; margin: 0; padding: 0; } .newsMonth li {display: inline; padding:5px} div.newsYear { width: 70px; float: left; } .newsdiv ul { margin: 2px 0px 2px 14px; padding:0px; } .newsData li { padding-bottom: 10px;} #centerbox { margin:22px 0 40px 40px; width:600px; float:left;} .newsData { clear:both;}For media inquiries, please contact Amanda Sherman at 202-225-5506.
06.11.2009	June is National Dairy Month, and in America’s Dairyland it serves as a time to recognize our dairy farmers and the fantastic dairy products our state produces at June Dairy Days celebrations and delicious dairy breakfasts across Wisconsin. The dairy industry defines Wisconsin and serves as a foundation for our state economy, generating more than $20 billion a year. The dairy industry also employs roughly 40% of the agricultural workforce in Wisconsin.Wisconsin is home to more dairy farms than any other state, producing 25% of U.S. cheese - nearly 2.5 billion pounds – and almost half of the country’s specialty cheeses, making it the number one cheese producing state in the country. We also produce 13% of our nation's milk, about 2.8 billion gallons of milk each year.Thanks to the University of Wisconsin System, our state is also home to some of the country's top dairy scientists, researchers and technology experts. Considering the role dairy plays in our state, I will continue my work in Washington to come up with ways to help ease the burden of low dairy prices for Wisconsin farmers. Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) payments were increased as a result of last year’s farm bill through the inclusion of a feed adjustment, but I realize this small increase is little comfort in the face of the current crisis. I realize that dairy producers across western Wisconsin will continue to wrestle with low prices especially in this tough economy, and will do my best to help. In the meantime, let us celebrate the products of our state this month, thank the dairy farmers and cheesemakers who support Wisconsin’s economy and enjoy the delicious treasures of Wisconsin.
06.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressional members including U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Bruce Braley (D-IA), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Tim Walz (D-MN) and Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA) today introduced the Medicare Payment Improvement Act of 2009, legislation meant to move our current Medicare system towards one that is quality-based and addresses the long-term sustainability of Medicare by encouraging cost effective treatments. “Right now when we spend more money on Medicare we don’t necessarily get better care or improved health,” said Rep. Kind. “A system focused on quality over quantity, rewarding what works and avoiding what doesn’t, means responsible spending by our Medicare system and a higher standard of care for Medicare patients. The current system puts emphasis on the number of procedures completed and the amount of patients seen, resulting in unnecessary or repeated medical services, medical errors, and billions of dollars in waste. The Institute of Medicine recently estimated that one-third of all medical care is pure waste, such as duplicate X-rays, replicate lab tests and procedures to fix mistakes. “Hospitals in La Crosse, Wis., including Gunderson Lutheran, cited in a Washington Post article this week, have some of the lowest Medicare utilization rates - Medicare spent $5,812 on the average beneficiary in La Crosse in 2006, compared with $16,351 in Miami. The quality of care also ranks top in the nation in La Crosse, showing that health outcomes aren’t necessarily related to an increase in spending. Wisconsin’s progress makes it an excellent model for the nation in reforming the Medicare system, specifically by employing health information technology and promoting healthy lifestyles to eliminate wasteful spending without sacrificing quality. “The Medicare Payment Improvement Act seeks to reform the Medicare system to one that rewards the value of care over quantity of procedures, improving quality and lowering the total cost of care over time. The bill’s outcome-based approach creates the incentive for physicians and hospitals to work together to improve quality and use resources efficiently. According to a study by the McKinsey Institute, fee-for-service reimbursement, the predominant method in outpatient treatment, actually gives providers strong financial incentives to provide more, and more costly, care, not more value. Under the Act, medical professionals who produce more volume will need to take steps to also improve care, or the increased volume will negatively impact reimbursements they receive from Medicare. "I appreciate Representatives Kind, Braley, Walz and Blumenauer's leadership on this important issue," said Denis Cortese, M.D., president and CEO, Mayo Clinic. "If we are to reform health care in the United States, we must change Medicare payments to reward providers that offer high quality, lower-cost care. This bill is a first step toward inserting the concept of "paying for value" into the Medicare system, which has traditionally paid for volume."“A major goal of healthcare reform is to reduce costs and ensure quality, affordable care for every American,” Rep. Bruce Braley (D-Iowa) said. “Our healthcare system should reward the best care. A quality-based approach for Medicare will reduce costs to taxpayers and increase the quality of care for everyone, all while rewarding doctors in states like Iowa for providing the most efficient and effective healthcare.”“Rewarding value, and not just volume, of health services is how we will achieve true health care reform,” said Congressman Earl Blumenauer. “Oregon is a national leader in efficient care and we want to help other states to follow suit. This legislation is a critical step towards providing higher quality healthcare care at less cost.” “It all boils down to high quality patient care,” said Congressman Tim Walz. “Our patients should be getting the best quality care for their money. Yet our current payment system ignores quality and value. It doesn’t reward good quality or punish service providers for poor quality care. I don’t know any other industry that operates like this. In the health care field, the best thing we can do to lower costs is to reward the providers who keep patients well with high quality care. If we are truly to reform our health care system this is a fundamental change that must be included.”
06.10.2009	The White House has announced a new website to track the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in the second 100 days since it was passed. The new site, www.whitehouse.gov/recovery, highlights funding and committments for projects across the country and highlights each state's progress in putting the funds to use. The interactive Roadmap to Recovery allows you to see how the Act is working in our district. The site also includes testimonials from Americans who have been impacted by Recovery Act funds. I encourage you to check out this site to see how we are accelerating the pace of economic recovery and getting America back on track. You can also check out: www.recovery.orgwww.recovery.govwww.thenationaldialogue.orgwww.gao.gov/recovery
06.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, June 17, 2009 from 6:40-7:40 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ideas on health care reform as well as ask questions and share thoughts on the economy and energy legislation. The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. This telephone town hall will focus on health care reform. “With health care a key issue right now and the President urging action this summer, it is important that we discuss the options for health care reform currently on the table,” said Rep. Kind. “I want to know how residents back home feel and what feedback they have for reforming the current system.” Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 6:40 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.•Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 1-877-229-8493 and entering the code 13433. •Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
06.09.2009	Today the House voted to pass "Cash for Clunkers", the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Act (H.R. 2751), which allows consumers to trade in their old, gas-guzzling vehicles and receive vouchers worth up to $4,500 to help pay for new, more fuel efficient cars and trucks. This commonsense program will start July 1, 2009 and will be available for one year. "Cash for clunkers" will help grow our clean energy economy, cut down on pollution and is another step toward a greener, cleaner future. In addition, the smart bill saves consumers money at the pump, reducing our gas consumption by over 250 million gallons and strengthens the auto industry, increasing demand for more fuel efficient cars and trucks. Not only does the bill help our auto industry manage this tough time, but it saves American jobs and strengthens our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil. I encourage you all to take advantage of this opportunity.
06.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today met with President Barack Obama in his capacity as a member of the Ways and Means Committee health subcommittee to discuss health care reform legislation slated for a vote this summer. “Meeting with President Obama today brought much needed urgency to the issue and was a fantastic opportunity to share with him our current efforts for reforming the current health care system. I am pleased that the President supports our commitment to preserving patient choice and providing quality, affordable care for all Americans. I look forward to President Obama’s leadership as well as our collaboration in promoting economic recovery while fixing our health care system. Immediate reform is necessary to ensure a more efficient, affordable health care system. We must move towards a system that promotes value, transforming our health care delivery system to focus on high standards for quality care and cost containment. I also had the opportunity to share Wisconsin’s priorities with the White House today. I am committed to making sure our health care system works for Wisconsin’s small businesses and family farmers, many of which struggle with the current cost of coverage. Americans across the country must have access to the affordable health care they need - no matter their age, income or occupation.”
06.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), today reintroduced the Medicare Specialty Care Improvement and Protection Act of 2009 (SNP) , legislation designed to reauthorize eligibility for special needs plans and maximize effectiveness of dual-eligible plans that improve care coordination for the most vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries. “We have a superb special needs plan model of care in Wisconsin that is proven to work,” said Rep. Kind. “This bill not only helps us care for those patients who need the extra attention, but is fiscally responsible, helping us control costs by better managing care and helping move all special needs plans across the country to a proven model such as the one in Wisconsin.”The SNP Act, originally introduced in the 110th Congress, extends authorization for special needs plans for an additional three years, to January 1, 2014, and for fully integrated dual-eligible plans for an additional five years, improving access for the populations the plans serve. The bill also aims to improve risk adjustment to stop underpayments for high risk groups and overpayments for relatively healthy beneficiaries. Through more equal adjustments, accounting for regulatory costs, and ensuring fair bidding practices, the SNP Act will regulate the special needs plan system to control costs and provide a higher quality of care. The bill also aims to reauthorize dual eligible special needs plans to make sure dual-eligible patients – those receiving benefits under both Medicare and Medicaid - are given the highest standard of care. Through coordination across agencies, the SNP Act will increase transparency, eliminate inefficiencies and improve care for the most vulnerable in the Medicare system. To foster a proven working model for use across the country, the SNP Act also provides resources to advance dual-eligible special needs plan integration and coordination. The bill also encourages states to integrate dual-eligible special needs plans and provides guidance and support for advancing more efficient and effective care for dual-eligible beneficiaries. “Special Needs Plans, many created here in Wisconsin, care for our most aged and vulnerable. We must strengthen these plans by giving them the resources they need to function effectively. I am pleased to join Rep. Kind in proposing legislation that cares for our most vulnerable,” said Congresswoman Baldwin.
06.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Reps. Ron Kind today congratulates outstanding high school students from the Third Congressional District who have been admitted to and have accepted an appointment to a U.S. Service Academy. “I couldn’t be prouder of these young people,” said Rep. Kind. “I am pleased they have accepted the appointment to receive a superb education while serving our country. Their accomplishments thus far are a great testament to the outstanding officers they will become.”Zachary Allen of Tomah has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Zachary attended Tomah High School where he competed on the wrestling team and participated in student council. Zachary was also a high honor roll student. Trent Brown of La Crosse has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Trent attended St. Mary’s High School in Faribault, Minn. where he played soccer and basketball, competed in track and field and volunteered for Meals on Wheels. Trent was also an honor roll student. Sean Freitas of Hudson has accepted an appointment to the United States Naval Academy. Sean attended Hudson High School where he played Lacrosse and was a member of both the history club and the National Honor Society. Sean also volunteered as a senior mentor and was a high honor roll student. Natalie Jones of Altoona has accepted an appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Natalie attended Altoona High School where she played tennis. Natalie also played in the jazz band, participated as a member of the National Honor Society and was a high honor roll student. Luke Loftsgaarden of Altoona has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Luke attended St. Lawrence Seminary in Mt. Calvary, Wis. where he competed on the cross country, track, and wrestling teams. Luke was also a member of the National Honor Society and was a high honor roll student. Meagan Ostrander of Eastman has accepted an appointment to the Unites States Air Force Academy. Meagan attended Seneca High School and currently attends Viterbo University. While in high school, she played volleyball and basketball and competed on the track team. Natalie was a member of both FFA and the National Honor Society. Natalie was also an honor roll student. Matthew Pilarski of Hudson has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Matthew attended Hudson High School where he played football and basketball and competed on the wrestling team. Matthew was a member of the high school choir, served as a student ambassador to People to People and was also an honor roll student.
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today had the opportunity to meet with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to discuss our nation’s financial health. Bernanke reached out specifically to members of the New Democrat Coalition, a pro-business Democratic caucus on which Rep. Kind serves as Vice Chair, to discuss fiscal issues related to government spending and fiscal priorities. “I commend Chairman Bernanke for his efforts to jumpstart our economy and at the same time stay conscious of and address the long-term fiscal health of our country. Committed to fiscal responsibility, I recently called for an outside fiscal commission to examine our national debt and entitlement spending, so that we might better be able to invest wisely and reduce our deficit. In response to my question, Chairman Bernanke said today that he will announce Monday that TARP funds will soon be repaid, showing the program is working. Our banks are now stabilized, our system is recovering, and as promised, taxpayers are being repaid, with interest. I am also pleased the Chairman shares my concern for fiscal reform in regards to health care and cost control. Our health care reform efforts must deal with spending and price of care, bending the cost curve to lessen the amount Americans pay for quality health care. I am pleased that the Chairman took the time to listen to the thoughts of members such as myself and will use this feedback to help pave the way to economic recovery. I appreciate Chairman Bernanke’s commitment to this issue and I look forward to working with him.”
06.02.2009	As summer is a time when many families take vacations, I want to make sure you are up-to-date on the most current security regulations for travel in North America. As of June 1, U.S. travelers wishing to visit Canada, Mexico, Bermuda, or the Caribbean must show a U.S. passport or U.S. passport card upon entry back into the United States. While a passport is valid to re-enter or enter the U.S. when traveling by air, land or sea from other countries in North American, the passport card is only valid for travel by land and sea. I urge you to do the proper research before you travel to save you time and hassel on your vacation. Please see the Department of State website for more details. And best wishes for safe and happy travels this summer!
06.01.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined local area business development leaders in an educational discussion on the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funds allocated for economic recovery and the resources available to small businesses.“Small businesses are the backbone of our economy creating 60-80 percent of new jobs,” said Rep. Kind. “The resources available to them through the Recovery Act will undoubtedly make it easier for them not only to survive, but to thrive and help lead us out of this economic recession.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is expected to generate $21 billion in new lending and investment for small businesses. In an effort to aid job growth and investments in small businesses, the Act takes a comprehensive approach to addressing the problems faced by small businesses by providing access to capital and resources to create jobs and drive economic recovery. Part of the ARRA, the America’s Recovery Capital (ARC) loan program will provide financial relief to entrepreneurs and lenders by offering deferred-payment, interest-free loans of up to $35,000 to viable small businesses that need help making payments on an existing, qualifying loan for up to six months. This program is intended to give small firms an immediate cash injection to cover existing debts in order to maintain existing jobs and create additional jobs in the long run. The Act also makes it easier for small business owners to get Small Business Administration (SBA)-backed loans by reducing the costs of loans for small business borrowers and temporarily eliminating fees on some SBA-guaranteed loans. The fee eliminations are retroactive to Feb. 17, 2009, the day the Recovery Act was signed. In addition, the Act allows the Small Business Administration to unfreeze the credit market for small businesses, helping small firms raise equity capital. “Our innovative western Wisconsin small businesses are helping lead the nation in the development of new technology and the fostering of new industries, contributing significantly to the entire state economy. Investment in them and the availability of these resources helps ensure these vital businesses continue to serve as an important source of employment and an anchor to the local community.”
05.22.2009	As families across western Wisconsin celebrate Memorial Day, it is important to reflect on the sacrifices our nation’s veterans have made, including the 21 service members from the district who have lost their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan. I commend our service members and their families for the contributions they have made to better secure our country. We owe them a debt of gratitude that can never be repaid. In addition to attending most of the company deployments throughout western Wisconsin, I also attended the 32nd Brigade deployment ceremony in Madison this past February, one of the largest since World War II. With our country involved in two conflicts overseas, these deployments exemplify the need to support our troops in the field and after they return home. Just this week, I introduced the Service Members Home Ownership Act with my colleague from Wisconsin, Steve Kagen. For members of our armed forces who are serving outside the country in 2009, this legislation extends the first-time homebuyer credit - a $8,000 tax credit available to anyone who purchases his or her first home – for an additional year. Service members should not lose the opportunity to use this tax credit because they are serving our nation overseas. Our soldiers and veterans also deserve a first-class education at a fair and affordable price. That’s why I also introduced the Help Student Soldiers Act, which forgives federal students loans for the semester in which students must withdraw from college and do not receive academic credit, due to a call to active duty service. By lessening the financial strain and distractions of deployment, service members will be more able to focus on their unit’s mission. I also want to urge our veterans in to take advantage of the 21st Century GI Bill which gives members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001 up to four academic years of education benefits, including stipends for housing and books. This program is modeled after the GI Bill following World War II, which helped numerous veterans to develop the skills to build our great nation. Finally, there is no better way to honor our veteran’s service than by recording their memories. To help us commemorate and preserve our veteran’s service, I created the Veteran’s History Project. The project uses volunteer interviews to tape record the stories of our veterans. A copy of the tape can be sent to the Library of Congress, where it will be included in our nation’s collection. These living testaments help preserve an important part of American history: what it was like to serve our nation. Although the project has collected more than 60,000 individual stories to date, the world’s largest oral history collection, there are still millions of stories that can be told. I urge you to take the time on Memorial Day to not only thank our veterans and remember our country’s fallen soldiers, but also to ask the veterans in your life to record their stories. They serve as the most significant memorial we can possibly give to our nation’s fallen and living veterans.
05.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) yesterday introduced bipartisan legislation, the Service Member Home Ownership Act and the Help Student Soldiers Act, two commonsense bills to provide housing and education benefits to service members. “Just last month, Wisconsin saw the deployment of the largest group of guards since the Second World War,” said Rep. Kind. “With our country involved in two conflicts overseas, these deployments exemplify the need to support our veterans and our troops, to ensure they have access to affordable housing and a first-class education here at home.” In addition to Rep. Kind, the Service Members Home Ownership Act, H.R. 2562, was introduced by co-sponsors Steve Kagen (D-WI), Charles Boustany (R-LA), and Sam Johnson (R-TX). Supporting organizations of the Act include American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of American, Military Order of the Purple Heart, National Military Family Association, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. The Help Student Soldiers Act, H.R. 2561, was introduced by Judy Biggert (R-IL), Jason Altmire (D-PA), and Duncan Hunter (R-CA) in addition to Rep. Kind. Supporting organizations of this bill include American Council on Education, American Legion, Military Order of the Purple Heart and Veterans of Foreign Wars. “I am proud to be support our troops and veterans through these bills. Their dedicated service to securing our country is inspiring. Service members should have every opportunity to succeed and enhance their life when they return home and these bills will help them do just that.” The Service Members Home Ownership Act extends the time period of the first-time homebuyer credit for members of our armed forces who are serving outside the country in 2009 for at least three months. The $8,000 tax credit, available to anyone who purchases his or her first home, will be available to service members for an additional year. The Help Student Soldiers Act directs the Secretary of Education to forgive federal students loans taken for the semester in which students must withdraw from college due to a call to active duty and thus do not receive academic credit. By lessening the financial strain and distractions of deployment, service members will be more able to focus on their unit’s mission and resume their studies when they return home.
05.21.2009	In honor of small business week, I would like to draw attention to the Job Creation Through Entrepreneurship Act, which we passed last night. This Act will give small businesses and entrepreneurs the tools and resources they need to succeed and thrive and create jobs, especially in this tough economy. The backbone of our nation, small businesses create 60-80 percent of our jobs and are helping to bring us out of this recession. The Act approved today gives the Small Business Association's resources a major overhaul, expanding and improving the most successful programs. The bill also creates new entrepreneurial development programs, a great investment in our economy. In fact, it has been estimated that these programs helped create over 70,000 jobs in 2008 alone. I am pleased to be able to provide our small business and entrepreneurs with these tools to aid in economic success and longevity.
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 2512, a commonsense bill to ban all congressional earmarks for for-profit entities. “Earmarks exploded while Republicans controlled Congress, but it is a bipartisan problem in need of a bipartisan solution,” said Rep. Kind. “While important reforms have been made by Democratic leaders, this bill will add more credibility, strengthening the public’s trust in the process. This bill will enable greater transparency, increased fiscal responsibility, and will help us move closer to the comprehensive reform that is necessary to fix this system.” In addition to Rep. Kind, the bill was introduced Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), John Campbell (R-CA), Tim Walz (D-MN), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jim Cooper (D-TN), and Mark Kirk (R-IL) today. “By banning earmarks for for-profit companies, these entities will have to go through the normal competitive bidding process which has been proven to be fair, transparent, and based on merit instead of political connection.” Rep. Kind continues to lead the effort for earmarking reform, forgoing requests in 2008 and 2009 and introducing multiple forms of legislation to reform the process. Recently, Rep. Kind opposed the omnibus spending bill because there were extraneous earmarks included.
05.20.2009	In this severe economic downturn, too many families have faced foreclosure. Nearly one in five homeowners owe more than their home is worth and cannot refinance. That's why, building off President Obama's Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, Congress passed the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act today. This legilslation provides key tools and incentives for lenders and homeowners to modify loans and avoid foreclosure. The bill also strengthens consumer rights to housing information - including establishing the right of a homeowner to know who owns their mortgage. In addition, it provides renters with 90-day notice of eviction, strengthens federal homeless programs, protects bank deposits and savings and increases the borrowing authority of the FDIC to reduce financial burden on small community banks. Stabilizing the housing market is central to restoring the American economy. I am proud that we've passed this legislation and look forward to the progress it will help us make as we turn around the housing market and move towards continued recovery.
05.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to pass the Supplemental Appropriations Act, in which he helped insert crucial funding for FSA loans, guaranteeing support for farmers to secure funds in a tough economic time."Upon hearing of the large number of Wisconsin farmers shut out of this year’s loan program, I worked tirelessly with Appropriations Chairman and fellow Wisconsinite, David Obey, to insert the funding necessary to address this problem and am pleased it was passed today in the Supplemental Appropriations Act. This funding is crucial to supporting our family farmers in western Wisconsin and helping them to get through this recession."The Supplemental provides $800 million in funding for direct loans through the Farm Service Agency to help farmers obtain credit in order to purchase the seed, fertilizer, and equipment they need to plant the upcoming season’s crops. The FSA direct loan program has experienced an unusual surge in demand this year due to the tight credit market and economic downturn, with 47 states reporting a backlog of unfunded applications."Farmers everywhere are facing budget concerns heading into this season," said Rep. Kind. "This funding is crucial to farmers, providing needed assistance when many are facing severe economic problems. Additional funding will give a greater number of farmers access to support to ensure a successful harvest this year and continued success in the long-run."Congressman Kind heard concerns from a large number of constituents worried about government support for farmers facing economic trouble. This year so far there’s a backlog of $2 million in operating loans in Wisconsin, making it difficult for dozens of farmers to cover up-front costs associated with planting season, facility repairs, and land and livestock purchases. The Farm Service Agency received an additional 260 applications just last month.
05.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to pass the Supplemental Appropriations Act, guaranteeing the support of American troops both here at home as well as deployed abroad. The bill also enacts a plan to remove troops from Iraq, refocus efforts on Afghanistan, provides initiatives for confronting terrorism in Pakistan, and provides funding for pandemic flu response as well as other key provisions."This past deployment of Wisconsin Guard Units is the largest deployment of Wisconsin troops since the Second World War," said Rep. Kind. "Our troops have done a terrific job under difficult and dangerous conditions. We must provide them the training and equipment they need to do their jobs safely and effectively so that they can return home to their families as soon as possible. This Supplemental provides for these needs and will take care of our troops from western Wisconsin."The $96.7 billion Supplemental Appropriations Act provides the necessary resources for protecting troops, supporting military families, and compensating soldiers. The bill provides $1.2 billion for defense health and programs to support military families, $23 billion to replace or refurbish equipment used in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and $734 million in funds for additional pay for more than 170,000 service members who have had their enlistments involuntarily extended since Sept. 11, 2001 – allowing for payments of $500 per month for every month service members were held on active duty under "stop-loss" orders.The Supplemental also puts into place a plan to remove all troops from Iraq by August 2010 and outlines a redirected focus on efforts to combat terrorism in Afghanistan, providing funds for military training, governance reforms and economic development. In order to effectively confront terrorism in Afghanistan, the bill also allocates funds for initiatives in Pakistan."I support President Obama and this new direction for winding down our efforts in Iraq and increasing our troop presence in Afghanistan. This bill is absolutely necessary to ensuring that our troops have the tools, equipment, and training to help keep them out of harm’s way and that our mission is successful in the fight on terror."
05.14.2009	Last night over 4000 of you called in to my telephone town hall. Thank you for calling, I appreciate your willingness to share your thoughts and ideas. And I think we covered a good range of topics - from energy policy, to the economy to health care reform. I also wanted to thank you for participating in our poll. 86% of you agreed that we must enact a new enery policy in the this country. I'm right there with you. I think there's a lot we could do to develop a clean energy plan that would facilitate a new industry, create jobs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and curb carbon pollution that causes global warming. Thanks again for calling in. And please continue to share your thoughts as we move forward in developing a clean energy plan.
05.13.2009	Tonight, at 6:30pm CST, I am hosting a telephone town hall. I am eager to hear your thoughts and ideas on environmental topics, specifcally our plan for clean energy jobs and oil independence. I also welcome your feedback on health care and the economy, as I know that these issues are pressing to many residents. I also know traveling to my local town halls can be a challenge. That's why I enjoy doing these telephone town halls - it's a great way for me to hear from you, right from the comfort of your home. Please dial-into the telephone town hall by calling (toll-free) 1-877-229-8493 and entering the code 13433. I hope you'll be able to join us!
05.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – A bipartisan group of members, including U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), John Barrow (D-GA), Jim Gerlach (R-PA), and Bill Young (R-FL), along with the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB), Service Employees International Union (SEIU), National Association of Realtors, Families USA, National Partnership for Women and Families, and National Restaurant Association today reintroduced the Small Business Heath Options Program (SHOP) Act, H.R. 2360, legislation designed to make health insurance more available and affordable for small businesses and their employees."Small businesses and family farmers in the United States are in a crisis today when it comes to finding affordable health insurance," Rep. Kind (D-WI) said. "With rising costs pricing small businesses out of the market, it’s no surprise that 60 percent of Americans without health insurance are from families where the head of household is self-employed or works in a small business. If we are going to address the lack of health care coverage in this country, we have to look out for small businesses, and the SHOP Act gets to the heart of that. I am proud of this historic, bipartisan coalition and look forward to working with more of my colleagues to ensure that SHOP is incorporated into health care reform.""Small businesses want to do right by their employees," said Rep. Barrow (D-GA). "They want to provide health insurance coverage, it’s just too expensive. This bill will help them out. It’s a great start to making sure that more folks who put in a hard day’s work can get the health coverage they need.""I am pleased to be working side by side with Congressman Kind again on enacting a bipartisan solution for expanding access to health insurance coverage and lowering costs for employers," Rep. Gerlach (R-PA) said. "The SHOP Act would put healthcare coverage within reach for millions of self-employed and small-business owners who want to provide competitive benefits to attract the most talented and skilled workers, but often lack the resources to do so. It is my hope that as Congress begins to weigh the options for reforming our healthcare system, all voices will be heard and all ideas receive fair consideration."The SHOP Act would make health insurance less costly, more predictable, and more accessible for the 47.1 million employees of the nation’s 5.8 million small businesses, including family farms, and for the 14.1 million self-employed individuals in America by:-Allowing small businesses and the self employed to band together in a statewide or nationwide pool to obtain lower health insurance prices by spreading their risk over a larger number of participants.-Keeping prices low by offering a range of private health plans that have to compete for business.-Providing small business owners with an annual tax credit of up to $1,000 per employee ($2,000 for family coverage) if they pay for 60 percent of their employees’ premiums, and a bonus tax credit if they pay for more than 60 percent of the premiums. Self-employed individuals would get a $1,800 annual tax credit ($3,600 for family coverage) to purchase health insurance.-Cutting down on administrative costs for small businesses – today, small businesses spend almost 25 percent of health insurance premiums on administrative costs, compared to 10 percent for large employers.-Banning the practice of rating insurance based on health status and claims experience so that premium increases will be more stable and predictable.-Providing a website with comparative information about a variety of private health plans.-Putting in place accountability measures that rely on the proven oversight of state insurance commissioners to ensure that all health plans meet state requirements for financial solvency, network adequacy, and claims and appeal procedures."For so many small business owners the cost of healthcare is unsustainable," said Dan Danner, president and CEO, National Federation of Independent Business. "SHOP is a bipartisan, bicameral bill that pursues uniform insurance market reforms greatly needed for our nation’s job creators. It explores new pooling options aimed at improving competition, creates new ways for small business owners to access affordable healthcare options and gives individuals the ability to choose their own plan. We commend Congressmen Kind (WI), Barrow (GA), Gerlach (PA) and Young (FL) for their continued leadership on this important issue. Enacting solutions specific to the diverse small business community is critical to advancing meaningful reform.""The current economic crisis shows just how broken America's healthcare system is - too many hardworking people are struggling to afford care or being crushed by skyrocketing costs," said Andy Stern, President of SEIU. "As we move toward comprehensive health care reform, this bill has important ideas of ways to help small businesses & help millions of workers, including tens of thousands of SEIU child care workers, afford the health coverage they need."
05.12.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Wednesday, May 13, 2009 from 6:30-7:30 p.m. CST. Participants will have the opportunity to provide feedback and ideas on alternative energy and carbon reduction as well as ask questions and share thoughts on the economy and health care.The telephone town hall meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them and communicate their thoughts and ideas directly back to him from their own home. This telephone town hall will focus on environmental concerns."For many years scientists, policy-makers, and the public have debated the causes of global warming and the government’s role in addressing it," said Rep. Kind. "Now, with President Obama calling for swift action on carbon reduction and Congress considering these issues, I feel it is important to listen to what residents back home have to say."Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Wednesday (approximately 6:30 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the telephone town hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.• Interested constituents may also dial-into the telephone town hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 1-877-229-8493 and entering the code 13433.• Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Leah Hunter at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the telephone town hall.
05.08.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – In honor of National Teacher Appreciation week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today thanked teachers, commended life-long educator, Beatrice Small, and discussed local stimulus funds for education stemming from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). “Our educators play a crucial role in making sure every student receives a quality education,” said Rep. Kind. “I want to thank our teachers for supporting our children, helping them to reach their academic goals, and readying them for today's competitive global economy.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act made key investments in education, allocating $100 billion for education programs over the next two years. These investments are designed to help schools succeed despite tough economic conditions. Specifically, funds are meant to help prevent teacher layoffs and other cuts in hard-hit districts, expand the Title I and IDEA programs, invest in education technology, make college more affordable, and help develop a better-educated workforce in order to jumpstart the economy. At this time $34 million has already been released to the Third Congressional District, with just over $3 million allocated to the School District of La Crosse. Despite the state of the economy, a recent article in Business Week stated that there are approximately 3 million unfilled jobs employers are struggling to fill due to the mismatch of skills and training in the unemployed workforce. In a shifting economy, when certain sectors grow while others shrink, investment in education is more important than ever. Increased funding for education through the ARRA allows schools to forgo eliminating necessary curriculum, programs and educators despite slim budgets. “The federal stimulus package provides crucial funding for our local schools in this tough economic time. These funds will help support administrators, staff and important programs in western Wisconsin schools. As we work to get our economy back on track, I am committed to supporting our teachers who make such a difference in the lives of our children.
05.08.2009	I was very disappointed to hear the recent announcement of the idling of the Chrysler Engine Plant in Kenosha. In this tough time, I stand behind the Wisconsin auto industry and the Obama Administration and support the plant workers and their families. Yesterday I received a letter from Chrysler’s Chairman and CEO clarifying the strategy and details behind their current restructuring and the idling of the Kenosha plant. It is unfortunate that Chrysler’s decision, made months ago due to deteriorating demand for new automobiles, wasn’t discussed or made public in a more timely fashion. In this rough economic environment, I am disappointed to see this investment in Wisconsin diminish. I fully support the auto industry in Wisconsin and expect Chrysler to fulfill their promise that virtually all plant workers affected by this restructuring will be offered positions in the new Chrysler Fiat. I also stand behind the Obama Administration and am confident that its efforts will ensure proper use of tax payer funds, preservation of Wisconsin jobs, support for working families, and a strong American auto industry in the long run.
05.06.2009	We voted today for improved enforcement and prosecution of mortgage and corporate fraud, in a bill that passed with overwhelming support, 367-59. Continuing Congress’ commitment to consumer protection and financial reform, The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act will provide important funding and necessary tools to help law enforcement officials pursue and prosecute the type of fraud many blame for the current financial crisis. The legislation will also establish a bipartisan commission to investigate the causes of the collapse of our financial system and the resulting recession. This bill shows our continued dedication to rebuilding our economy. It holds our financial sector accountable, arms the Justice Department with the tools necessary to combat fraud, and protects taxpayers against future deception. With the passage of this bill, Americans can be assured that we are doing everything in our power to guarantee a crisis of this level never occurs again. I am committed to reforming our financial system, keeping consumers safe from fraud and helping to protect their hard-earned dollars.
05.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced a significant flow of funds to environmental projects in western Wisconsin that will both create jobs and promote the conservation of our state’s natural resources. Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), multiple local organizations will be able to facilitate deferred maintenance projects, construct much needed spaces, and improve infrastructure to protect wildlife and the environment. “As Wisconsinites, we are blessed to have an abundance of natural resources right in our backyard,” said Rep. Kind. “But with these resources at risk, I cannot stress enough the importance of caring for our environment. I am pleased to see federal recovery dollars creating jobs while protecting and preserving the beauty of our state.” -The Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center (UMESC) in La Crosse will receive just over $7 million for construction, maintenance and safety upgrades to the research facility and campus. -The Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge will receive $6.1 million for operations, construction, energy-savings maintenance, and improving buildings and fish hatchery water management facilities. -The Department of Natural Resources will receive $1.53 million to acquire 1,100 acres to enhance recovery efforts to permanently protect and manage the Karner blue butterfly. -Eau Galle River Lake will receive just under $1 million for repairs, electrical upgrades, expansion, and maintenance of facilities and campgrounds. -Genoa National Fish Hatchery will receive $405,000 for deferred maintenance to rehabilitate sturgeon well water supply and rehabilitate one of several ponds. -La Crosse National Fish and Wildlife Conservation Office will receive $40,000 for the restoration of fish and wildlife habitats on National Wildlife Refuges and private lands. These projects support key goals for conservation in the State of Wisconsin. Through the ARRA, Wisconsin organizations will be able to facilitate needed maintenance, construction, and improvement projects, create jobs and better protect and enrich the state’s natural resources.
05.06.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), today voiced concern with the lack of farm subsidy reform included in this year’s budget, particularly in light of a recent poll."Farm subsidies have long been an important and highly debated issue, especially in Wisconsin," said Rep. Kind. "I am disappointed that our budget did not take subsidy reform into consideration this year, especially as the government seeks to remedy federal spending and farmers have continually voiced concern."Reforms were initially proposed by both Congressman Kind and President Obama for this year’s economic plan, although the recently approved budget failed to address further limits on federal subsidies to large agribusinesses. Lawmakers rejected both a proposal to limit subsidies to individual farmers at $250,000 total and a proposal to eliminate subsidies to producers with an adjusted gross income of $250,000.Congress’ lack of action on subsidy reform is particularly glaring in light of a recently published national poll by Worldpublicopinion.org, an international collaborative project managed by the University of Maryland, which indicates 61 percent of Americans currently oppose most farm subsidies. Though most small farms do not receive subsidies, 77 percent of Americans are in favor of providing them to farms of 500 acres or less. In addition, only a small number of Americans, 15 percent, believe that taxpayer subsidies should be provided to large farms on a regular yearly basis."It is obvious that the American public is concerned with the way our government doles out taxpayer subsidies to large agribusiness. Rather than continuing to favor the largest producers, we must redirect our focus to helping our family farmers stay in business while finding budget savings to reduce our national deficit."Click here for additional survey results.
05.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today called on President Obama to lift the economic sanctions in place with Cuba since 1962."Opening up conversations and economic ties leads to greater democracy and prosperity for all countries involved," said Rep Kind. "In a time of severe economic downtown, it makes no sense to be punishing our farmers and manufacturers who could be exporting. It is clear that after 47 years of economic sanctions with minimal benefit, we need to change our relationship with Cuba."Citing a recent study by the International Trade Commission, the United States could be exporting nearly $1 billion in agricultural products yearly to neighboring Cuba if U.S. restrictions on exports to Cuba were removed. A long standing issue of disagreement, open trade with Cuba would greatly impact all American markets, most specifically agriculture.The study also found that had the restrictions not been in place, U.S. agricultural sales to Cuba would have risen at least 30 percent last year to between $225 million and $475 million. This would have increased the U.S. share of the Cuban import market from 38 percent to between 49 percent and 64 percent."Cold War policies are no longer effective. Lifting the ban could mean tremendous growth for our nation, especially for our farmers. Only 70 miles off our coast, opening a new market for our farmers would be a good first step towards positive engagement with Cuba.
05.05.2009	I want to take today to honor our teachers and recognize the lasting contributions they make to our lives. Our educators play a crucial role in making sure every student receives a quality education, and for that I commend them. Their hard work and tireless commitment to education is valued and appreciated by all of us who have watched our children succeed. Thank you, teachers, for supporting our students, helping them to reach their academic goals, and readying them for today's competitive global economy.On this day I also want to stress what a priority education is for the 111th Congress. In fact, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act made key investments in education, allocating $100 billion for education programs over the next two years. These investments are designed to help schools succeed despite tough economic conditions. Specifically, funds are meant to help prevent teacher layoffs and other cuts in hard-hit districts, expand the Title I and IDEA programs, invest in education technology, make college more affordable, and help develop a better-educated workforce in order to jumpstart the economy. And fortunately for our state, Wisconsin is receiving more than $587 million in funds.Today we celebrate our teachers and thank them for the countless lives they have touched and the communities they have bettered. We also make a commitment to always support them as they continue to make a difference in the lives of our children.
05.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, today announced new legislation to encourage physical activity and healthy lifestyles among Americans by removing financial barriers to exercise. The Workforce Health Improvement Program (WHIP) Act of 2009 (HR 2106) would allow balanced tax treatment for the cost of fitness center memberships as part of an employee benefit. The Personal Health Investment Today (PHIT) Act of 2009 (HR 2105) would allow employees to use pre-tax benefits to help cover the cost of an expanded number of preventative fitness expenditures."Regular exercise plays a vital role in preventing and controlling obesity, illness and disease," said Rep. Kind. "These bills will ease the financial stress often at hand and give people the incentive to adopt an active lifestyle and the motivation to take care of their health."Sixty-four percent of American adults and 34 percent of children suffer from chronic disease, often brought about by obesity and lack of physical activity. As public health experts agree, a more physically fit population would lower health care costs, reduce government spending, result in fewer illnesses and improve worker productivity. Both the WHIP and PHIT bills help remove the cost barrier and promote healthy lifestyles, making it more affordable to participate in regular physical activities."We applaud Reps. Kind, Wamp, Blumenauer, and Brady and Sens. Harkin and Cornyn who introduced and support these health-promoting pieces of legislation," says Joe Moore, president and CEO of The International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association (IHRSA). "It’s this kind of insightful leadership—that recognizes the impact that exercise and healthy, preventive lifestyle choices have on our nation’s physical and fiscal health—that America critically needs if we are to bring about effective health care reform."By changing the current tax code, the WHIP Act will affirm an employer’s right to deduct the cost of subsidizing or providing fitness center benefits to employees, encouraging employers to offer the perk. It would also eliminate the income tax paid by employees on fitness center fringe benefits, giving them an incentive to take advantage of the benefit. At the same time, the PHIT bill will increase the types of expenditures payable out of tax-favored health investment accounts, including flex spending accounts, medical savings accounts, and/or medical reimbursement arrangements. Taxpayers could use up to $1,000 annually or $2,000 for families for preventative exercise costs including fitness center dues, some exercise equipment, and sports activity fees, among others.As inactivity plagues our families and American obesity rates continue to rise, so too do health care costs to both business and the government. In fact, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that health care costs directly associated with inactivity were $76.6 billion in 2000. Roughly one-third of those costs fall directly on U.S. taxpayers since approximately one in three Americans is covered by a taxpayer-funded health plan."As we attempt to reform our health care system, we have to look at what we as individuals can do to help," said Rep. Kind. "Increasing our physical activity and encouraging an active lifestyle for our families will help us prevent disease, improve our wellbeing, and lower health care costs for everyone."
05.04.2009	As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the federal stimulus plan, we voted to make sure that if you received Social Security benefits by January 2009, you will receive a one-time payment of $250. The first of these payments will be mailed this week. If you do not receive your payment by July, I would encourage you to inquire. In light of our current economic condition, I know how important this rebate can be and I hope that it will help those who recieve it afford the everyday things they need.For more information, click for a fact sheet and a video explaining the benefits.
04.30.2009	Today the House passed the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights. And we passed it with overwhelming bipartisan support, 357-70. This ease of passage shows just how important we feel it is to protect consumers from the misleading practices of the credit card companies. With the help of the Senate and President Obama, I'm hoping we can finally put these questionable practices to an end.Credit card companies have led a one-sided relationship with consumers for far too long. This bill will restrict the unfair practices of the credit card industry - unfair rate increases, double billing, deceptive fees - and help give consumers peace of mind, especially at a time when we are battling a very stressful economic situation. The bill will also ban the industry from knowlingly issuing cards to minors, safeguarding our kids from the misleading practices of card issuers. I am proud that this common sense legislation has been passed and hope that it will help Americans as they seek the best financial decisions possible.
04.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) gave the following statement today in response to three probable cases of H1N1 Flu reported in Milwaukee."Ranked one of the top states in the nation for pandemic flu preparedness by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Wisconsin is well prepared and ready to handle a flu pandemic. Probable cases have been reported in the Milwaukee area, but residents of western Wisconsin should not be alarmed, our health officials have taken actions to slow the spread of H1N1 Flu in our state and will continue to monitor the situation, taking quick, corrective action should a response be needed. I urge residents to take caution, practice safe health measures and report any symptoms immediately."Residents can use the following sites for up-to-date recommended health safety measures as well as additional information:https://www.kind.house.gov/?sectionid=52&sectiontree=52&itemid=304https://pandemic.wisconsin.gov/https://www.cdc.gov/swineflu/swineflu_you.htm
04.29.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted in favor of a long-term economic plan putting America on a path towards recovery. Focusing on prosperity and growth in this tough economic time, the fiscally responsible plan cuts both taxes and the deficit, limits spending and makes targeted investments in health care, energy, and education that will grow the economy and create jobs."Budgets are all about priorities," said Rep. Kind. "This budget makes it clear that the priorities of this Congress are the priorities of the American people. During the greatest economic crisis our country has seen in a generation, the approved budget will keep us moving towards recovery."In an effort to relieve strain on the deficit as well as on American businesses, the approved budget takes significant steps at reducing health care costs, the first of many steps in transforming our nation’s outdated, inefficient, and costly health care system. The resolution makes critical investments in medical research and innovation and focuses on improving quality of care and expanding coverage, providing a framework for comprehensive health reform. The long-term economic plan also increases investments in new energy technologies made in America and lays the groundwork for legislation that will cut pollution and reduce our dependence on foreign oil, promoting energy independence in the long run.Accurately assessing our nation’s financial situation, the long-term plan focuses on eliminating economic stress on American taxpayers by cutting taxes and reducing the national deficit inherited by the new administration."I am proud that this budget makes great strides toward fiscal responsibility, cutting taxes for American families and reducing the deficit to eliminate stress on future generations," said Rep. Kind." "The budget is transparent and honest, showing taxpayers where we plan to cut spending and expose deceit. What we secured today will keep us moving in the right direction and help us focus on continued steps to prosperity."This plan ushers in a new era of accountability in budgeting. Accurate cost estimates of previously masked items and a commitment to fiscal discipline will give taxpayers a transparent representation of the work to be done by Congress and President Obama.
04.29.2009	This afteroon we passed a long-term plan to keep us moving down the road to economic recovery. I am proud that this budget focuses on the thing most important to us today - getting our economy back on track. The plan takes into consideration the immediate needs Americans have at home - cutting taxes to relieve financial stress and taking steps to increase the quality and reduce the cost of health care. It also invests in green technologies to create jobs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil and pass legislation to deliver a better environment to future generations. Money is set aside for education to make sure our children have opportunities for academic achievement. And the plan also works towards reducing our national debt to make sure others don't inherit the same burden we currently have.On President Obama's 100th day, we can see that our nation is moving in a new direction. I am confident that this budget - along with all legislation passed since January 20 - can keep us moving down the path to prosperity.To see the full budget and summary, click here.
04.28.2009	As we recognize Equal Pay Day today, I am pleased that so much progress has been made in the 46 years since we signed the Equal Pay Act into law under President Kennedy.Just this year, President Obama signed into law the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Play Act, in an effort to protect women and other workers in the workplace, restoring their right and making it easier to challenge unfair pay in court. This act was a major priority for the 111th Congress and is a major victory for American women. We are also hard at work on the equally important Paycheck Fairness Act, which serves as an update to the 46-year-old Equal Pay Act, taking real steps to deter wage discrimination by empowering women to negotiate for equal pay, creating stronger incentives for employers to follow the law, and strengthening the federal enforcement efforts.Progress has been made, but we need to continue to work hard to make sure women are paid equal pay for equal work. After all, closing the wage gap is not only important to ensuring fairness in America's workplaces but to empowering working women and strengthening America's families.
04.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) urges residents of the Third Congressional District to complete a state-wide Public Service Commission (PSC) survey to ensure stimulus funds for broadband Internet access are delivered to Western Wisconsin. The survey can be found at: https://psc.wi.gov/apps35/eSurvey/Broadband/WIbroadband.aspx. The survey can also be downloaded and printed from the above site for those residents who would like to fax or mail in their response. Fax to: (608) 266-3957 Mail to: Public Service Commission P.O. Box 7854 Madison, WI 53707-7854 In addition, residents can also call Gary Evenson at (608) 266-6744 to give responses via phone. “In order to participate in national and international markets, increase the quality of health care and education available and enhance the standard of living in our rural communities, it is essential that residents in Western Wisconsin have access to a high-speed, open Internet connection,” said Rep. Kind. “It is vital that citizens complete this survey so that we can effectively secure federal funds for this project.” Residents of rural areas are currently limited to slow, dial-up Internet access, prohibiting them from efficiently accessing online resources. Many who telecommute or require the Internet for business purposes are struggling with the restricted connection, especially as more services become available solely online. Congress included $7.2 billion in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), to extend high-speed Internet to rural areas. In order to help ensure this money reaches Western Wisconsin, residents are advised to respond to the PSC state-wide survey aimed at identifying which areas are most in need of broadband service. The PSC plans to use the survey results along with mapping efforts to help advise the federal government on which local governments and service providers should get stimulus funds.
04.27.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) warns residents not to panic in wake of the recent H1N1 Flu outbreak in Mexico, Canada, Europe and the United States. At this time, none of the confirmed cases in the United Sates have taken on a severe form. “Our country has a great capacity to manage a public health challenge of this caliber,” said Rep. Kind. “This outbreak is not something to panic about, but something that requires us to take caution. I urge Wisconsinites to practice general preventative measures and to watch for and immediately report symptoms to prevent further cases.” The outbreak has been declared a public health emergency but an incident is yet to be reported in the State of Wisconsin. As there is no vaccine against the flu strain and regular flu vaccines are unlikely to provide good protection, the following precautions should be taken to help avoid contracting the illness. To protect yourself, practice general preventive measures: • Avoid close contact with people who appear unwell and who have fever and cough • Wash hands with soap and water frequently and thoroughly • Practice good health habits including adequate sleep, eating nutritious food, and keeping physically active. If you feel unwell, have high fever, cough and/or sore throat: • Stay at home and keep away from work, school or crowds as much as possible. • Rest and take plenty of fluids. • Cover your mouth and nose with disposable tissues when coughing and sneezing and dispose of used tissues properly. • Wash hands with soap and water frequently and thoroughly, especially after coughing or sneezing. • Inform family and friends about your illness. If you need medical attention: • Contact your doctor or healthcare provider before travelling to see them and report your symptoms. Explain why you think you have swine influenza (for example, if you have recently travelled to a country where there is a swine influenza outbreak in humans). Follow the advice given to you for care. • If it is not possible to contact your healthcare provider in advance, communicate your suspicion of having swine influenza immediately upon arrival at the healthcare facility.
04.24.2009	Federal funds continue to flow to the State of Wisconsin from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) at an impressive pace. The Obama Administration announced today that schools in our state will receive $366 million in stimulus funds, with approximately $3 million going to the La Crosse School District and another $3.54 million going to the Eau Claire School District. The funds will be used to maintain staff and programs in this tough economic time and help our children get the education they deserve.Stimulus funds are also supporting the Upper Midwest Environmental Science Center, among other USGS science centers in Wisconsin, to allow for construction and maintenance so that we can enhance our ability to protect and restore Wisconsin’s natural heritage. And lastly, the USDA's Rural Development Program is providing funds that will allow the Village of Cazenovia, Juneau and Sauk counties, and Monroe County Shelter Care to expand programs and invest in local businesses that benefit our local communities. It's been a productive week for Wisconsin. I am eager to see this money at work, as I know we have a long way to go but am confident that we will turn this economy around soon.
04.23.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Village of Cazenovia, Juneau and Sauk counties, and Monroe County Shelter Care have all received grants from the United States Department of Agriculture under the Rural Development Program. “I am pleased to see rural development working in our state and benefiting those organizations and communities that have been hardest hit,” said Rep. Kind. “Investing in our rural businesses is essential in ensuring continued economic development and job growth in Western Wisconsin.” The Village of Cazenovia received a $555,000 Water and Waste Loan and Grant to be used to construct a new well and pump, as well as for chemical feed equipment. The Village also plans to construct a small building addition to house the equipment. Both Juneau and Sauk counties, among others in the state, have received funds in the form of a Rural Business Enterprise Grant worth $500,000 to provide financial and technical assistance, including business start-up, expansion and recovery, to rural small businesses impacted by the June 2008 storms and flooding. Funds for Monroe County Shelter Care, a nonprofit organization providing shelter care to area families and residents in need, will help construct a facility to provide six single traditional housing units for adults, two separate apartments for victims of domestic violence, as well as additional office space for expanding programs.
04.23.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center (UMESC) in La Crosse has been selected to receive federal funding through the Department of the Interior’s approved projects under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, also known as the economic stimulus package. The center is one of three US Geological Survey (USGS) science centers in Wisconsin to receive funds totaling approximately $14 million; UMESC will receive slightly less than 50 percent of the total USGS Wisconsin ARRA funds, which will be used for both new construction and deferred maintenance, among other projects. “The continued influx of stimulus funds to our state shows that we are on the right track to turning our economy around,” said Rep. Kind. “I am proud that the Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center was recognized with this investment and will be able to continue to address ecological concerns right here at home. UMESC is an invaluable resource, not only to La Crosse but to the entire state, in helping us to protect our natural landscape and restore the beauty of Wisconsin.” UMESC conducts a range of ecosystem based research focused on the Upper Mississippi River Basin and Great Lakes Basin, and on issues of regional, national, and international significance. Funding for UMESC will allow the facility to complete construction on a long-planned addition, which will include energy efficient and green building features, for better utilization of space and interaction with the public. The grant will also allow UMESC to make maintenance and safety upgrades to the research facility and campus, replace the current water tower, add disinfection/sanitization capabilities to the existing waste water treatment process, and replace humidifiers in central station air handlers for increased lab operations.
04.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind with his wife, Tawni Kind, announced the winners of the 13th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest at a reception last weekend in La Crosse. “The competition drew nearly 100 entries, a testament to the artistic talent in the Third Congressional District,” said Rep. Kind. “I am happy to honor these top student artists and thank all of the participants for their impressive contributions.” The winners are: 1st Place Jenny Yang, La Crosse Central “A Spaceful Mind” 2nd Place Tyler Phillips, La Farge High School “Focused Delirium” 3rd Place Avery Van Gaard, La Crosse Central “Alone in the Dark” 4th Place Danielle VonRuden, La Farge High School “Uncle Mart” Honorable Mentions Jamie Cooper, Aquinas High School “Out of the Darkness” Danella Fonza, La Crosse Central “Rock the Mic” Samantha Herken, La Farge High School “Black Hawk Rock” Amy Kallenbach, La Crosse Central “Mind over Matter” Grace Lansing, La Crosse Logan “Color me Freely” Caleb Manske, La Crosse Central “A La Tour Eiffel” Milivoje Momcilovic, La Crosse Logan “Seka Jeca” Tori Nemec, La Farge High School “All Wrapped Up” Daniella Painter, Granton High School “Repose” Annaka Yeager, La Crosse Logan “The Pride of Jeff Hardy” The first place entry, Jenny Yang’s “A Spaceful Mind”, will be displayed for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country. She also will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a reception honoring the top student artists. The second place work will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, while third and fourth place works will be hang in Rep. Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The contest recognizes the artistic talent of the region’s high school art students, bringing together high school artists from across western Wisconsin. This year’s competition had entries from nine different schools in the Third Congressional District.
04.22.2009	Former Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson, a man I am proud to call my mentor, spearheaded an environmental movement almost 40 years ago in a national celebration of our environment. Today, 175 countries and over 500 million people across the world come together to inspire environmental awareness and appreciation on Earth Day.Fortunately, we've made great strides in the last 40 years, as legislation has been passed to help us take care of our environment and preserve it for future generations. I'm also proud that Americans have taken the steps to "green' their lives. I believe that it is these small steps that can make a great impact.Did you know that if we all just drove the speed limit we could reduce foreign oil consumption 40 percent? Or that if every household in America replaced just one incandescent light bulb with a CFL bulb, we could eliminate the pollution of more than 2 million cars and prevent the burning of 30 billion pounds of coal?We live greener lives by each doing our small part. Whether replacing drafty windows and doors to conserve energy or separating recyclables to reduce waste, we're making a difference. We're on the right path but I challenge you to do more to make sure our kids inherit a cleaner, more livable planet than we did.
04.22.2009	In the tradition of former Wisconsin Senator and Earth Day founder, Gaylord Nelson, we celebrate the 39th Earth Day this week. Senator Nelson would be proud to see that since 1970, Earth Day has come a long way. First celebrated mostly by environmentalists and even met with some controversy, today millions of Americans come together on Earth Day to reflect on the tremendous strides that have been made to protect our environment, combat pollution, and slow down global warming. And it’s more than legislation that’s helped us get this far. Americans today are living greener lives, not just on Earth Day but every day. And believe it or not, the little things we do every day can and are making a big difference. Something as simple as energy-saving light bulbs, which use 75 percent less energy and help us eliminate tons of green house gas pollution, can help. And that’s more clean air for our children and grandchildren. Whether it’s carpooling weekly, backyard vegetable gardens, or recycling bins in the garage, taking the steps to “green” our lives is an important and necessary part of preserving our environment. Wisconsinites especially have made me proud. Not only have the everyday efforts of families across the state made a difference, but also the environmentally friendly attitude of our residents has helped us make great strides. The support for and adoption of alternative energy sources, such as biomass projects, have helped schools across our state save on energy costs and will allow Wisconsin to successfully reach its carbon management goals. Increasing the sustainability of our homes by replacing drafty doors, windows, and appliances with energy-saving home products has helped us reduce energy waste and water use up to 50 percent, cutting green house gas emissions and helping bring down energy costs for Wisconsin households. As we celebrate Earth Day this year, let’s remember that uniting on this mission is essential in looking after this place we call home. It is our many small steps that are helping us make great progress in protecting our environment. I am confident that if we continue to do our part, we can make the earth a greener place for future generations.
04.09.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will join Health Care for America Now - Wisconsin Coalition in a town hall listening session on health care reform, Monday, April 13, 4:30-6:00p.m. at the Valhalla Auditorium at UW-La Crosse. The forum will include testimonials from area residents and a question and answer session focused on how reforms will impact families and businesses in western Wisconsin.“I am committed to listening to the concerns and ideas aimed at understanding our current efforts to reform the health care system,” said Rep. Kind. “Making sure reforms are affordable and provide quality, accessible health care to all Americans is key.”Rep. Kind serves as a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, which oversees Medicare and is at the center of the health care reform effort. His work on the committee is focused on ensuring that any health care reform package includes cost containment measures as part of the overall strategy towards universal coverage. “Costs continue to rise as do the number of uninsured as our country faces an economic crisis,” said Rep. Kind. “It is vital that we make every effort to reform our system immediately. Promoting greater quality and efficiency will ensure the people of western Wisconsin have access to affordable health care no matter their age, income or occupation.”
04.07.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) participated today in the Summit Conversations on American Health Care for the 21 st Century, hosted by America’s Agenda Health Care Education Fund and the University of Wisconsin School of Law. In addition to Rep. Kind, participants also included former Wisconsin Governor and U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, Tommy G. Thompson, and former Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives, Dick Gephardt.“I was pleased to participate in this important discussion,” said Rep. Kind. “With health insurance premiums soaring in cost and nearly 50 million Americans uninsured, I am committed to finding sensible reforms that will reduce the number of uninsured while making health care more affordable for everyone.”Rep. Kind serves as a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, which oversees Medicare and is at the center of the health care reform effort. His work on the committee is focused on ensuring that any health care reform package includes cost containment measures as part of the overall strategy towards universal coverage. “While much of the focus in health care reform has centered on covering the uninsured, I believe it is equally as important to focus on affordability for all Americans. Over the last eight years, the cost of health care premiums for an average family has increased nearly 80 percent, putting a tremendous strain on them. We must get health care costs under control, protecting taxpayers and family budgets while ensuring both quality and value.”The Summit, third in a nationwide series of high-profile conversations among American’s leaders in a variety of sectors of American life, was held in Madison, Wis. and streamed online for a national audience. Participants focused on specific policy areas such as an increased emphasis on disease prevention, managing chronic diseases, updating the health information technology, and restructuring the patient-provider incentives.
04.07.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced the appointment of Leah Hunter as his Press Secretary. Hunter most recently worked for a Washington, DC public relations and new media firm where her work focused on technology and security-based clients. "We are excited to have Leah on board,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “While Congress continues to take extraordinary steps to get our economy back on track, I am confident Leah’s knowledge and range of new media skills will help communicate how these measures are affecting the people of western Wisconsin.”Prior to her work at DBC PR+New Media, Hunter worked for Rippe Keane Marketing, Inc. in Madison, Wis. A native of Amherst, Wis., Hunter is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison’s School of Journalism.
04.03.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Department of Commerce is now accepting requests to replace unused, expired coupons for the purchase of digital-to-analog converter boxes. Most television stations in western Wisconsin have already made the switch from analog to digital broadcasting, and the remainder will switch by June 13, 2009. Originally scheduled for February 18, the President signed into law a delay for the DTV conversion after many households who had requested converter coupons were unable to redeem them.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided an additional $650 million to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), enabling it to fulfill the 4.1 million coupon requests currently pending from 2.3 million households. NTIA is now accepting new requests and is processing them with a maximum nine-day turnaround time.“I encourage all those who still have expired coupons and have not yet purchased converter boxes to do so immediately,” Rep. Kind said.Each household is entitled to two coupons. Those with expired coupons or who have not yet applied for the coupons can do so online at www.dtv2009.gov, by calling 1-888-388-2009, by mailing an application to P.O. Box 2000, Portland, OR 97208, or faxing it to 1-877-388-4632. Deaf or hearing impaired callers can dial 1-877-530-2634 (TTY).
04.02.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted for the House Budget Resolution, supporting its critical investments in education, health care, and energy independence, which will restore the economy and keep American businesses competitive around the world. Rep. Kind issued the following statement:“This is an honest, fiscally responsible budget that lays a path toward a better future for our children and grandchildren. We cannot wish our problems away or wait for future generations to solve them. The investments outlined in this budget will bring America back to the forefront of innovation, create sustainable jobs in clean energy, and bring our antiquated health care system into the 21 st century. While we need to make these investments now, we cannot lose sight of our long-term fiscal picture. I appreciated that the President included cost-saving measures in his budget proposal to bring federal spending under control and the budget passed today follows that lead. However, I strongly would have preferred including the President’s suggestions to cut wasteful agricultural subsidies to wealthy individuals. I will also continue to work with the President and my colleagues to reform our entitlement programs and put our country on sound economic footing.”In February, President Obama invited Rep. Kind to the bipartisan Fiscal Responsibility Summit at the White House, where they discussed how to address long-standing fiscal challenges, such as Social Security and health care.
04.01.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today continued his fight to reduce the deficit by releasing a report from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on federal assets that could be sold, leased, licensed, or otherwise conveyed to raise revenue. Congressman Kind has long highlighted the need to tackle growing entitlement programs, reduce agricultural subsidies to wealthy farmers, and end wasteful government spending.Rep. Kind requested the CBO report specifically to get a better sense of what the government owns and how Congress could use those resources to raise revenue and therefore reduce the deficit. In its response, CBO estimated that, depending on the legislation, the total net receipts could reach $20 billion.“President Obama said that his staff would go through the federal budget line-by-line to end wasteful spending. While we have to be careful to make sure that we’re spending money efficiently, we also need to take a long look at what our options are for raising revenue,” Rep. Kind said. “I may not support everything outlined in CBO’s letter, but they deserve to be considered as a way to begin addressing the serious budget deficit that we face.” Earlier this year, President Obama invited Rep. Kind to participate in the White House Fiscal Responsibility Summit to discuss ways to help improve the long-term sustainability of the federal budget.A copy of the CBO letter accompanies this release.
04.01.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today was recognized by the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) as Legislator of the Year for his strong support of research and development in biotechnologies.“Wisconsin is one of the world’s leaders in biotechnology research and development, creating innovative breakthroughs in medicine and bringing high-tech jobs and startup companies to the state,” Rep. Kind said. “I am proud to receive this award and I will continue to advocate for legislation that helps our local businesses, could reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and offers hope of cures to those suffering from debilitating diseases.”The award was presented to Rep. Kind by three leaders of Wisconsin’s biotech industry: Deven McGlenn, the CEO of NeoClone; Dr. Laura Strong, the President of Quintessence Biosciences; and Ron Kuehn, Executive Director of the Wisconsin Biotechnology & Medical Device Association. “Congressman Kind is an ardent supporter of biotechnology and has demonstrated his dedication through leadership on national policy and the important work done on the House Ways & Means Committee. He understands the benefits the industry provides in the form of economic stability and more high-paying jobs for the state of Wisconsin,” said Dr. Laura Strong, President of Quintessence Biosciences, located in Madison, WI. “On behalf of Wisconsin’s life sciences industry, we salute Congressman Kind’s efforts. He is a true friend of the bioscience community and the patients that we serve."A photograph of Rep. Kind receiving the Legislator of the Year award accompanies this release. (From left: Quintessence Biosciences President Dr. Laura Strong, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, NeoClone CEO Deven McGlenn, and Wisconsin Biotechnology & Medical Device Association Executive Director Ron Kuehn.)
03.27.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that Wisconsin will receive $3.9 million from the Department of Health and Human Services as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1). Scenic Bluffs Community Health Center in Cashton will receive more than $166,000 to hire additional staff that is anticipated to bring care to 1,200 new patients and 348 additional uninsured patients over the next two years.Since the stimulus bill was signed into law on February 17 th, 2009, executive agencies have been outlining how money will be disbursed to state and local authorities to create or save jobs, address long-term needs, and provide a boost to the economy. Congressman Kind supported the measure to make smart investments that will bring jobs to western Wisconsin and improve the lives of Americans all across the country.“For too long, Monroe, Vernon, and La Crosse counties haven’t been getting the dental services they need,” said Rep. Kind. “This grant will help take patients off the waiting list and help them get improved patient care.”Scenic Bluffs Community Health Center in Cashton says the grant will be used to provide money for the initial hire, but will be fully self-sustaining through patient services.More information about the grants Wisconsin will receive from the Department for Health and Human Services is available at: https://www.hhs.gov/recovery/programs/hrsa/wisconsin.html.
03.26.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today was recognized with the Spirit of Enterprise Award by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for his strong support of businesses in western Wisconsin in the 110 th Congress.“Western Wisconsin relies on local businesses to create local jobs and drive economic growth,” Rep. Kind said. “With the economic downturn and the rising cost of everything from energy to health insurance, I’m very concerned that our businesses face obstacles in competing and growing in today’s economy. That is why I have focused my work in Congress on policies that will help Wisconsin’s businesses make important investments to grow their companies, offer retirement savings options for both owners and employees, and provide affordable health coverage.”The Chamber identified Spirit of Enterprise recipients by rating members of Congress according to their votes on 18 measures in the second session of the 110 th Congress, including bills to unfreeze the credit market, improve financial relief to students pursuing higher education, and invest in transportation.“Last year in particular, Congress had to make some tough choices, and Rep. Kind clearly demonstrated his commitment to the economy and keeping America competitive in an ever-changing global market,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “The Chamber is proud to present Rep. Kind with the Spirit of Enterprise Award on behalf of businesses large and small.”Rep. Kind was among just 16 Democrats from the House of Representatives to receive the award.
03.26.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that Wisconsin will receive $37.2 million from the Department of Energy as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1). Eau Claire will receive $655,700 and La Crosse will get $542,100 for energy efficiency and conservation projects.Together with the $197 million announced by the Department of Energy on March 12 th, Wisconsin will now receive more than $234 million from the stimulus package for weatherization, energy efficiency, conservation, and investments in clean energy.These grants give local governments the flexibility to use the funds that match their particular needs, but maintain a strong level of oversight and accountability. Recipients have to account for how many jobs are created or saved, as well as the amount of energy conserved, greenhouse gas emissions reduced, and renewable energy capacity increased.“These investments are going to help get Wisconsinites back to work, create clean, green jobs, and put us on a path to environmental sustainability,” said Rep. Kind. “The stimulus package was a useful first step, but we need to do more to tap into Americans’ spirit of innovation. I will continue to work with my colleagues and President Obama to make America a leader in green technology.”More information about the grant is available at: https://www.energy.gov/media/WI_Block_Grants.pdf.
03.25.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) yesterday met with Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack to discuss how to reform agriculture policies to save taxpayer money, promote energy development from biomass and wind, and make food programs—such as food stamps and school lunches—more nutritious.Their meeting, which also included Reps. Jim Cooper (D-TN) and Mark Schauer (D-MI), came the day before the House Budget Committee will decide whether to include the agricultural reforms proposed by the Obama Administration into Congress’s budget blueprint for the upcoming fiscal year. Rep. Kind also yesterday also sent a letter to House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt (D-SC) and Ranking Member Paul Ryan (R-WI), calling on them to limit subsidy payments to farmers and landowners with an adjusted gross income of less than $250,000 and capping the commodity payment limit at $250,000. It was expected that Rep. Ryan would offer such an amendment during the committee’s consideration today.“President Obama and Secretary Vilsack have recognized the need to reform our agriculture policies. Now it is time for Congress to do the same,” said Rep. Kind, who has spent years fighting to end handouts to wealthy farmers and corporations. “If we’re truly concerned about eliminating wasteful spending at a time of spiraling budget deficits, we clearly need to look at agriculture subsidies. We could be using that money to feed low-income families and fund programs that create jobs in rural America.”The meeting with Secretary Vilsack also comes nearly a week after the U.S. Department of Agriculture announced that it would work with the Internal Revenue Service to enforce the agriculture subsidy limits written into law in the last farm bill. On Friday March, 20, 2009, Rep. Kind introduced legislation requiring such an enforcement process.
03.25.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today called on the Social Security Administration (SSA) to move swiftly to address the excessive backlog of applications for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). Rep. Kind, who recently joined the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, brought his concerns to SSA Commissioner Michael Astrue at a hearing today.“It is unacceptable for people who simply are unable to work due to disability to wait almost two years for a hearing on their applications,” said Rep. Kind. “This backlog has been building since 2000 and has long been a top concern for me and the people in my district. We’ve seen constituents who have lost their savings and while they wait to hear back from SSA.”Today, 765,000 Americans are waiting for a hearing, compared to 310,000 in 2000. These numbers have grown substantially due to the aging of baby boomers and will continue to grow throughout this economic downturn. Wisconsin’s backlog has become so severe that its cases are regularly transferred to offices in other states.The Government Accountability Office listed the backlog of cases at SSA as being a “high-risk” program that requires urgent attention. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (H.R. 1) allocated $500 million to process the backlog and provided funding to fully staff a hearing office in Madison. SSA’s Milwaukee hearing office continues to struggle to address the needs of Wisconsinites, as it is home to one of the worst waits (594 days) for disability claims hearings in the country.“After many years of deadlock, we are finally moving to address a troubling lack of attention to the needs of people with disabilities,” Rep. Kind said. “We need to go further to address the SSDI backlog, as well as undertake new efforts to modernize the disability insurance application process, such as equipping the La Crosse SSA office with the technology it needs to handle the caseload from western Wisconsin.”Constituents who have any questions about their disability claims should contact Congressman Ron Kind’s La Crosse office at 608-782-2558 or toll-free at 888-442-8040.
03.24.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined Representatives Wally Herger (R-CA), Artur Davis (D-AL), Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ), and Mike Thompson (D-CA) in introducing the Family Cord Blood Banking Act, which would expand adult stem cell research opportunities, improve access to life-saving technology, and reduce expenses for families investing in their health and well-being. “Embryonic stem cell transplants may be controversial, but cord blood stem cells are not. When it comes to fighting cancer, blood disorders, and immune diseases, researchers say that stem cells from umbilical cord blood may be an effective tool for treatment,” said Rep. Kind, who is a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. “This legislation supports families that choose this potentially life-saving investment by providing tax incentives for these medical expenses.” Collecting and processing cord blood stem cells can cost $2,000 and storing it can cost up to $150 per year. The Family Cord Blood Banking Act amends Internal Revenue Code to add cord blood banking services as a qualified medical expense. This would allow individuals and couples to pay for umbilical cord blood banking services through flexible spending accounts (FSAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), or the medical expenses tax deduction.Umbilical cord blood stem cells have been used in more than 14,000 transplants around the world and have been used to treat more than 70 diseases in adults and children. This legislation could make this an option for more families facing potentially life-threatening diseases, increase the supply of cord blood stem cells, and lower the costs for families in the future.This measure is supported by the Brain Injury Association of America, the National Association of Nurse Practitioners in Women’s Health, and the Parent’s Guide to Cord Blood Foundation.
03.23.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today returned from Brussels, where he called for greater global coordination to strengthen international financial institutions and to counter the threat of terrorism and insecurity in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Rep. Kind, who co-chairs the US-European Union (EU) Caucus in the House of Representatives, travelled on a congressional delegation accompanied on the trip by Sens. John McCain (R-AZ), Bob Casey (D-PA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Mel Martinez (R-FL), along with Reps. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Ellen Tauscher (D-CA).“Financial systems all across the world have become so interconnected that we need to all work closely together to resolve our common economic challenges,” Rep. Kind said. “I called on our European allies to enhance the coordination of efforts to institute international financial reform and oversight.”Global security and a strengthened EU and NATO commitment to the war in Afghanistan were also a topic of discussion at the Brussels meeting. “We know that those responsible for the attacks of September 11 th are still operating in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” Rep. Kind said. “For more than seven years, we’ve lacked a serious, long-term strategy for rooting out this terrorist organization and eliminating their sanctuaries. I am encouraged by the new regional strategy the Obama Administration is taking in Afghanistan and Pakistan and called upon our EU and NATO allies to renew their commitment of assistance in the region.”Rep. Kind also was recently part of a fact-finding mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan. There he saw the need for a comprehensive regional approach that takes into account the porous border between the two nations and the importance of having an effective response that recognizes the importance both nations play in laying a foundation for peace, security, and well-being in the region.
03.23.2009	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced the 13 th Annual Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” for high school students. Organized by Congressman Kind and his wife Tawni Kind, this event brings together high school artists from throughout western Wisconsin to recognize the tremendous talent of our high school art students.“Every year Ron and I look forward to this art competition. It’s a great opportunity for us to get to meet these wonderful artists from western Wisconsin,” said Tawni Kind. “These students are capable of amazing things and this competition is a wonderful opportunity for us to showcase that to the nation.”The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the two honorable mention choices will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices. The deadline for submitting entries is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 3, 2009. Art teachers throughout Wisconsin’s 3 rd Congressional District have been notified about the competition and the rules for artwork submission.On Saturday, April 18, 2009 from 2:30 to 4:00 PM there will be a reception at 219 Pearl Street in La Crosse to recognize the participants. All student participants, their families and teachers are invited to attend the reception.Anyone interested in entering the competition, or having questions about the contest guidelines, is encouraged to call Rep. Kind’s aide, Danice Stanton, toll free at 1-888-442-8040.
03.23.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that military bases located in the Third Congressional District will receive $48 million for improvements and renovations under the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (H.R. 1). Fort McCoy will receive $14 million for a new family housing facility and $31 million for repairs to its World War II-era barracks, road reconstruction, and a water main.Camp Williams will receive $2.67 million for renovations, while Army National Guard bases in New Richmond and Onalaska will receive $128,000 and $52,000, respectively.“I am pleased to see the Department of Defense is undertaking this much-needed effort to improve conditions for the thousands of troops who pass through Fort McCoy and other facilities in Western Wisconsin. I have long advocated for major upgrades to these bases to ensure that when our soldiers are being trained, their safety and health are taken care of,” Rep. Kind said. “I’m happy to see that the recently passed stimulus bill is being put to good use: creating jobs for Wisconsinites while making meaningful investments for our future.”The money to upgrade the facilities comes from the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, enacted by Congress to stimulate the economy. Rep. Kind supported the measure, which included nearly $7.4 billion for defense-related appropriations. The Department of Defense has allocated $52.14 million to improve and renovate Wisconsin’s military bases.In 2008, Fort McCoy received $13 million to repair its barracks after Rep. Kind wrote a letter to Army Secretary Pete Geren expressing the need for serious renovations. The two-story wooden barracks were originally designed as temporary housing, intended to last just five years. Of the 276 barracks, less than half had ever been modernized or renovated.
03.20.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today traveled to Brussels to meet with leaders from around the world to discuss how nations are responding to the global economic crisis and to drum up European Union (EU) support for the NATO-led mission in Afghanistan. Rep. Kind is traveling as part of a bipartisan Congressional delegation to the Brussels Forum.“I look forward to meeting with a wide range of leaders at this global summit to discuss the common challenges we all face in these difficult times. No crisis is more pressing than the ongoing instability in the international financial system. We see the effects of that every day in my home state of Wisconsin and all across America. While we have a lot to take care of in our own backyard, we need to make sure that we’re coordinating with our international partners to find lasting solutions to these problems.”“While much of the world’s attention is rightly focused on this economic crisis, we cannot lose sight of our ongoing mission in Afghanistan. We will soon have more than 50,000 troops in Afghanistan working to root out terrorists, strengthen the Afghan army, and create the conditions needed for a viable government. I will call on our European allies to step up their support for the NATO mission.”
03.19.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today introduced legislation to compel the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to verify farmer income eligibility with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and to strengthen penalties for bad actors who intentionally attempt to break the rules. This bill comes in response to a report issued by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) documenting that thousands of farmers in recent years have received taxpayer subsidies, even though they did not legally qualify for them based on their high incomes. USDA Secretary Vilsack today announced the agency’s own plans to implement GAO’s recommendations.“I have long contended that the limits on farm subsidies are far too generous, but it is truly outrageous that the federal government has been unable to enforce the rules we already have on the books,” said Rep. Kind. “I am pleased the new Administration is interested in cracking down on waste, fraud, and abuse, and I look forward to working with them to find the best way to ensure our laws are obeyed and taxpayer dollars are being protected.”The report from October of last year documented 2,702 individuals above the previous income cap of more than $2.5 million in annual income who received $49 million in farm subsidy payments from the U.S. government from 2003 to 2006. With new income caps as low as $500,000 established in the 2008 farm bill affecting even more farmers, enforcement of this rule will prove only more difficult.“Today the House voted to rescind taxpayer-funded bonuses to wealthy businessmen on Wall Street, and I think it is equally important that we prevent millionaire corporate farmers and landowners from reaping huge bonuses in the form of government subsidies,” continued Kind. “As Americans from coast to coast struggle in this difficult economy, I think we can all agree that the very least we ought to be doing is enforcing the current law on the books to prevent people making more than $1.5 million from taking taxpayer money.”Kind’s legislation, which was cosponsored by Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), largely mirrors the announced plan of coordination between USDA and the Treasury Department by requiring USDA to submit the names or identifying information of an individual or entity signing up for commodity subsidy programs to the IRS, which would then use tax records to determine if the individual met the income eligibility requirements. Those who are found ineligible would be shut out of subsidy programs for that year and would have to reimburse any payments that may have been made in error. The bill also strengthens penalties for individuals who falsify documents or intentionally withhold information in order to evade the limits.Rep. Kind also supports President Obama’s attempt to reduce the income cap as outlined in his fiscal year 2010 budget proposal. He intends to introduce additional legislation soon to reduce the cap to $250,000 in average adjusted gross income, which was a part of the reform amendment he offered to the farm bill in 2007.
03.19.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted to recover bonuses given to corporate executives atfailing corporations that received more than $5 billion of taxpayer money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Federal authorities have spent more than $170 billion trying to prevent AIG from going under because the collapse of the insurance company would have a devastating impact in America and around the world.“It’s as if Wall Street has been operating in a moral vacuum on all of this--a divorce from the value system of the rest of the country,” Rep. Kind said. “American taxpayers need to know that banks are acting responsibly with taxpayers’ money. It is clearly irresponsible to use taxpayer money to pay bonuses out to executives of failing corporations that pushed our financial system to the brink of collapse.”The legislation, H.R. 1586, will levy a 90 percent tax on bonuses to employees earning over $250,000 in adjusted gross income from corporations that received more than $5 billion from TARP funding.When the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Oversight met on Thursday morning, Rep. Kind sought to ensure that the Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office (GAO) have the tools they need to maintain a vigorous oversight of TARP and taxpayers’ money.“I’m concerned that the GAO still faces major limitations in its oversight of the Federal Reserve. I strongly believe that the Fed must maintain its independence from the whims of Congress, but there must be accountability when billions of taxpayer dollars are at stake. With the enormous role the Fed has carved out for itself in this economic crisis, we need to figure out how we can make sure the GAO has access to the information it needs to properly oversee TARP and protect the interests of the American public.”
03.19.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – With work on education reform expected this year, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Zach Wamp (R-TN), Jay Inslee (D-WA), and U.S. Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) today reintroduced the Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids Act (FIT Kids Act) which would combat childhood obesity by strengthening physical education programs throughout the country. They were joined at an event on Capitol Hill by NFL players from the Baltimore Ravens and Washington Redskins, Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank, obesity expert Dr. Kenneth Cooper, Jamie Dukes of NFL Network and DC-area students.The FIT Kids Act would engage parents and the public by requiring all schools, districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard. The Act would further ensure appropriate professional development for health and physical education teachers, fund research to examine the link between children’s health and their academic achievement, and recommend effective ways to combat childhood obesity and improve healthy living and physical activity.“This bill gets to the simple truth: in order to develop healthy minds, you need healthy bodies,” said U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), who is a co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Providing increased physical education in public schools will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life.” “Preventing disease today means healthier, more active and engaged kids tomorrow,” said Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA). “This legislation takes action to combat rising rates of childhood obesity and diabetes, a public health crisis that we cannot ignore. As every parent knows, engaging children in physical activity throughout the day improves fitness, burns off excess energy and boosts concentration in the classroom. I hope this bill will empower our schools and parents to help improve our kids’ health.” “The statistics on childhood obesity are staggering, and we need to get them going in the other direction,” said U.S. Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN), founder and member of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Research shows that healthy children learn more effectively and achieve more academically. The FIT Kids Act would give physical education a strong emphasis to help bolster academic performance and provide students with the physical activity and education to lead healthy lifestyles.”“A University of Washington study showed that nearly a quarter of the Evergreen State's eighth-, 10th- and 12th-graders are overweight or obese,” said U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA). “And in the face of those statistics, it’s shocking that Washington state has been ranked as having one of the lowest youth obesity rates nationwide. We can and must do better for our kids. As Congress works to reauthorize No Child Left Behind, we need to include provisions to ensure every child has a fair chance at health, just like the law now aims to give all children a fair chance at learning.”“With the alarming increase of childhood obesity in our nation, physical education needs to be a priority in all schools,” said Robert DiBianco, M.D., cardiologist at Washington Adventist Hospital and American Heart Association spokesperson. “While the challenge we face in reversing this national health crisis is a shared responsibility, Congress has the power to take immediate action with the FIT Kids Act. We must increase quality physical education to reduce each child’s risk for heart disease and stroke later in life and boost their potential for academic achievement and general well being. "The NFL is proud to be playing a role in today's event to reintroduce the Fit Kids Act," said Arthur M. Blank, owner & CEO of the Atlanta Falcons, who spoke at today's event. "Major steps need to be taken to curb the trend of childhood obesity, and through initiatives like NFL PLAY 60 the league is playing its role in the fight." “The National Association for Sport and Physical Education (NASPE) envisions a society in which all individuals are physically educated and participate in lifelong physical activity,” said Executive Director Charlene R. Burgeson. “We advocate for quality physical education for all students because the goal of physical education is to develop physically educated individuals who have the knowledge, skills, and confidence to enjoy a lifetime of healthful physical activity.”The FIT Kids Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: The American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education, Afterschool Alliance, American Association for Physical Activity and Recreation, American School Health Association, Healthy Schools Campaign, National Association of Health Education Centers, National Association for County and City Health Officials, National Recreation and Park Association, Obesity Action Coalition, Researchers Against Inactivity-related Disorders, SPARK, Shaping America’s Health, Trust for America’s Health, American College of Sports Medicine, and the YMCA.Childhood Obesity in America Childhood obesity in the United States has reached epidemic proportions. Currently 25 million children in America are obese. The childhood obesity rate has tripled since 1980 and continues to rise. It is estimated that by 2010, twenty percent of children in the United States will be obese. Researchers suggest that the childhood obesity epidemic is largely due to a decline in regular physical activity and a diet high in empty and fat-laden calories. A lack of regular physical activity not only hurts children’s health, it can also affect their academic development, as research also shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers. Increasing physical activity is the most important component of any initiative to combat childhood obesity and promote the health of students. Unfortunately, many schools are being forced to cut back on P.E. programs because of lack of resources and competing academic demands and testing. Between 1991 and 2003, enrollment of high school students in daily P.E. classes fell from 41.6 percent to 28.4 percent.
03.18.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted to create new service opportunities across America and help place volunteerism at the center of our response to urgent needs in our schools and communities, particularly in light of the current economic crisis.The Generations Invigorating Volunteerism and Education Act will:Expand the number of volunteers nationwide from 75,000 to 250,000; Create a Clean Energy Corps, Education Corps, Healthy Futures Corps, and Veterans Service Corps; Strengthen avenues for middle and high school students to serve their local communities; Help transition older Americans into public and non-profit sector opportunities; and Bring individuals with innovative public service proposals together with private sector sponsors.“Public service has long been a driving force in American society, but in these difficult economic times, we need to encourage Americans to continue making positive contributions to their local communities,” said Rep. Kind. “Volunteer work may not always be glamorous, but it creates unique opportunities for individuals to dedicate themselves to improving the lives of others. At this time in America’s history, we need to call on Americans from all walks of life to serve their country in any way they can. This legislation helps make that possible.”
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Wally Herger (R-CA), Suzanne Kosmas (D-FL), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced legislation to address an unfair tax on health insurance premiums for the self-employed. Under current tax code, corporations can deduct the cost of health insurance premiums as a business expense and forego payroll (FICA) taxes on these costs. Self-employed workers, however, cannot take the same deduction and have to pay an additional 15.3 percent tax on those premiums. While health insurance costs are a major concern of all employers, this tax provision unfairly forces the self-employed to pay an extra $1,850 annually.“In a tax code as complicated as our own, we need to make sure that all taxpayers are treated fairly. Unfortunately, under current tax law, the self-employed aren’t allowed to take the same deductions on health care premiums as other businesses,” Rep. Kind said. “We need to fix this disparity to make health insurance more affordable for our nation’s entrepreneurs, including the over 300,000 sole proprietors who do business in Wisconsin.”“The United States is on the verge of a health care crisis, millions of people are without insurance because of rising health care costs, and we need to rise above partisanship to overcome these obstacles,” said Rep. Herger. “The Equity for Our Nations Self-Employed Act would correct part of the problem by helping to level the playing field in healthcare costs. It’s patently unfair that sole proprietors, a vital part of job creation and our economy, are penalized with additional taxes because they are not granted the write offs that larger businesses receive. Our legislation would correct this inequity and help make health insurance more affordable for millions of Americans.”“It is absolutely unfair that the self-employed are forced to pay an extra tax on their health insurance premiums,” said Rep. Kosmas. “Our bipartisan legislation will fix this inequity and lower health care costs for over one million Floridians. Rising health insurance costs are a burden to small businesses and families across Central Florida, and I am pleased to sponsor bipartisan, common-sense legislation that addresses this critical issue while helping self-employed small business owners during these difficult economic times.”“As we look for solutions to ease the burden of skyrocketing health care costs for small businesses and families, this legislation is one step in the right direction to help those who are self-employed,” said Rep. Reichert. “It levels the playing field for our country's job creators at a critical time when our economy is struggling, small businesses are struggling, and families are more worried about the cost of health insurance.”“This minor, very doable correction of the tax code will make it easier for the 21 million self-employed small-business owners in the U.S. to afford quality health insurance," National Small Business Association President Todd McCracken said.“America’s job creators – small business owners – ought to have equal tax treatment for the purchase of their healthcare. The nations self-employed don't have that equality today. This bipartisan legislation aims to correct that inequity so that entrepreneurs have more affordable healthcare options,” said Susan Eckerly, Senior Vice President of Federal Public Policy for the National Federation of Independent Business. “We look forward to working with Congressman Kind, Herger, Kosmas and Reichert to provide this long overdue tax equity to the self-employed.”“More than half of our members believe the current health care system is not meeting their needs or those of their families,” said National Association of Realtors President Charles McMillan. “Reform of our nation’s health care insurance system for the self-employed is a top NAR priority. On behalf of Realtors® across the country, we enthusiastically support and thank Congressman Kind, Herger, Kosmas and Reichert for championing health care tax reform that will equalize the tax treatment of health insurance premiums for the self-employed with those currently available to other businesses. Additionally, this will help make health care insurance more affordable for our members and for other independent contractors.”"We ought to be encouraging sole proprietors, not penalizing them. Yet the tax code currently does just that," said R. Michael Beene, Senior Health Policy Expert and General Counsel for the National Association for the Self-Employed. "This bill puts the self-employed on equal footing with other American businesses, addresses an area that has too many uninsured individuals and families and rights a wrong at a time when we most need it. On behalf of the NASE and its 200,000 members we offer our full support."
03.17.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to highlight ways we can eliminate waste in government agencies, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) recently sent a letter to the Internal Revenue Service questioning the wisdom of spending $3.3 million sending out withholding tables readily available online.“With nearly all small business owners using the internet for their taxes and banking, there is no reason for the federal government to spend more than $3 million to send out hard copies of tax information that is readily available online,” Rep. Kind said. “This money could be better spent hiring additional employees, or any number of other ways. We must identify areas where we can cut wasteful spending like this, if we’re going to get our fiscal house back in order.”The Wall Street Journal recently reported that the IRS would be sending out 9 million copies of new withholding tables which have changed due to the Making Work Pay tax credit (passed as a part of the Economic Reinvestment and Recovery Act). During a Ways and Means Committee hearing shortly after the article was published, Rep. Kind questioned the IRS Deputy Commissioner on the cost of this action, which turned out to be nearly $3.3 million.“If Senator Proxmire was still around, this would be a perfect candidate for his ‘Golden Fleece Award,’” Rep. Kind added. “Ultimately we are the stewards of taxpayer dollars and the federal government must be smarter with people’s money. It is my hope that by drawing attention to this matter the IRS and other federal agencies will think twice before operating ‘business as usual’ when things around them have changed.”Read Rep. Kind’s letter here.
03.16.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) applauded President Obama for his announcement today that the Treasury Department will purchase up to $15 billion in securities that are tied to small business loans. The securities market plays a key role in helping small businesses access capital to make investments and create jobs. Without this key line of credit, small businesses struggle to get the loans they need at rates they can afford.“Small businesses are the engine for economic growth throughout western Wisconsin,” Rep. Kind said. “President Obama knows that small businesses are one of the driving forces that will pull us out of this economic downturn. I applaud his continued efforts to help business owners obtain the credit they need to help them through these difficult times.” Small businesses represent more than 95% of all employers in America. They are responsible for 50% of the country’s gross domestic product and create 7 out of every 10 new jobs nationwide. In Wisconsin, over 447,000 small businesses, including 340,000 self-employed individuals, contribute enormously to our state economy and communities. As a member of the Ways & Means Committee, which is responsible for drafting tax legislation, Rep. Kind has strongly advocated for small businesses by introducing legislation to reduce health care costs for the self-employed, modernize the rules for S Corporations, and help small businesses offer retirement plans to their employees.
03.11.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in response to earmark reforms outlined by President Obama and House Leadership. President Obama called for a competitive bidding process on earmarks to private companies, as well as additional transparency measures. House leadership instituted a review of executive earmarking.“Abuse of the earmarking process has been a bipartisan problem, and it will require a bipartisan solution,” said Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). “I commend the President and House Leadership for the reforms they outlined today. The President’s call for a competitive bidding process for earmarks to private companies coupled with the House’s proposal to review executive earmarking will provide greater scrutiny on both sides of the process.”Rep. Kind has criticized the earmarking process in the past, forgoing requests in 2008 and introducing legislation to reform the process. Recently, Rep. Kind opposed the omnibus spending bill because there were extraneous earmarks included.Believing that today’s reforms could go even further, Rep. Kind added:“Now, I believe the final piece must be to ensure fairness in the way projects are awarded so that the most powerful and well-connected do not command the lion’s share of the money. Comprehensive reform is the only way to restore the public’s trust in the system.”
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will meet this afternoon with President Barack Obama in his capacity as Vice Chair of the New Democrat Coalition (NDC), the House’s largest coalition of centrist Democrats. The meeting will focus on the White House’s legislative strategy for the upcoming year.“There is tremendous opportunity for partnership between the White House and the New Democrat Coalition,” Rep. Kind said. “This group of members represents much of what President Obama campaigned on – bipartisanship, common sense, and investing in our future. From health care technology to regulatory reform, economic revitalization to expanded trade – our shared commitments are great. I am confident the NDC will be working closely with the White House to address the great challenges we face.”The meeting will focus on several policy areas where the 68-member New Democrat Coalition has championed practical solutions to issues that focus on innovation, economic growth and transparency.Health Care Reform: The NDC will continue advocating for the use of improved information technology in our health care system to hasten reform. Fiscal Responsibility: The NDC will continue to advocate for fiscal responsibility and efficiency in government, with several NDC leaders, including Rep. Kind, recently participating in President Obama’s Fiscal Responsibility Summit. Regulatory Reform: The NDC will continue to play a leading role in financial regulatory reform, which the President has identified as a major component of his economic plan. Trade: The NDC will work with the Administration to forge a new trade agenda that maintains U.S. engagement and a competitive edge in global commerce.“The President believes that he can and needs to work with the NDC not only because of the votes we carry, but because we are focused on advancing a pragmatic and solution-oriented policy agenda,” Kind added. “This will be a key partnership moving forward.”
03.10.2009	Today I had the privilege of meeting with President Obama in my capacity as Vice Chair of the New Democrat Coalition (NDC). The NDC is the House’s largest coalition of 68 centrist Democrats, focused on a pro-growth agenda. I think the best part of the meeting was when President Obama told us that he feels very comfortable with the NDC, because he considers himself a “New Democrat.” I believe there is tremendous opportunity for partnership between the White House and the NDC, because this group of members represents much of what President Obama campaigned on – bipartisanship, common sense, and investing in our future. From health care technology to regulatory reform, economic revitalization to expanded trade – our shared commitments are great. The President believes that he can and needs to work with the NDC not only because of the votes we carry, but because we are focused on advancing a pragmatic and solution-oriented policy agenda. This will be a key partnership moving forward.Read more about the meeting in the Eau Claire Leader Telegram.
03.10.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that law enforcement in western Wisconsin will receive nearly $500,000 in additional funding through an investment made in the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act.“Like families, local governments are also struggling during this economic downturn,” Rep. Kind said. “These additional funds will go a long way to ensuring local governments won’t have to lay off police officers and can continue important law enforcement initiatives. Public safety must remain a top priority regardless of what is happening with the economy.”The Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act provided additional funding for the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program, which supports state and local activities to prevent and control crime. JAG funds can be used by state and local governments for a wide variety of initiatives that bolster law enforcement or improve education as well as for technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems.Byrne JAG Funding for western Wisconsin under Economic Recovery & Reinvestment Act: Third Congressional District: $473,463By County/Municipality:Clark: $12,768Dunn: $23,673Eau Claire: $109,854Grant: $28,727Jackson: $10,108Juneau: $35,377La Crosse: $146,561(Onalaska receives $17,023 of that amount)Menomonie: $17,821Pierce: $15,161Richland Center: $10,374Richland: $15,959Sauk: $22,077St. Croix: $25,003
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI-3) and Wisconsin’s two U.S. Senators, Herb Kohl (D-WI) and Russ Feingold (D-WI), today introduced a congressional resolution marking the 100 th anniversary of Fort McCoy in Sparta.“For a century, Fort McCoy has served as a bastion of strength for not only our military, but for the community as well,” Rep. Kind said. “The men and women of Fort McCoy have helped this country through some of our most trying times, from preparing soldiers to fight for freedom abroad to coming to the aid of people suffering from disasters here at home. Congratulations on 100 years of proud service to this country.”“It is important to ensure our soldiers are well trained and equipped to handle the challenges they will face while deployed overseas,” Sen. Kohl said. “Fort McCoy has served as an outstanding training ground for our troops and I wish to congratulate them on 100 years of excellence in preparing soldiers to protect our country.”"We are extremely proud of the outstanding performance of Fort McCoy over the last 100 years,” Sen. Feingold said. “Fort McCoy has helped to train men and women in uniform who have sacrificed so much on behalf of us all. Congratulations on a century of extraordinary dedication.”History of Fort McCoy: The Army began training at on the land that would later become Fort McCoy in September 1909 when it was a 4,000-acre family farmed owned by Robert Bruce McCoy. Preceding World War I, the camp became one of the largest and most modern artillery camps in the country. It was officially designated Camp McCoy in 1926 in honor of its owner, who had become a Major General, and the camp was officially renamed Fort McCoy in 1974 to recognize its year-round status as an Army training facility.Ft. McCoy has served many purposes through the years. During the Great Depression it was a supply base for the Civilian Conservation Corps and during World War II, it prepared military units for deployment. The Fifth Army was trained there in preparation for the Korean War, it served as a resettlement center for refugees, and as a major mobilization site during Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, to name a few. Presently, Fort McCoy continues to train more than 100,000 soldiers a year, preparing 85,000 military personnel from 49 states for mobilization since September 11, 2001.
03.05.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after voting against H.R. 1106, which would allow bankruptcy judges to unilaterally modify mortgages.“Since the credit crisis started last fall, my top priority has been to protect the people in western Wisconsin who have acted responsibly. I supported the financial rescue legislation to protect their savings and investments. I supported the economic recovery legislation to protect their jobs.“This legislation, however, does not protect those people who are paying their mortgage on time, every month. The lenders in western Wisconsin were largely not engaged in the non-traditional, sub-prime loans that got us into this mess. By allowing bankruptcy judges to unilaterally write down mortgages with no limits on the type of mortgages they can adjust or the efforts that must be taken before these adjustments can happen, we will actually be causing credit to tighten when we’ve been working since fall to loosen it. This action will cause banks to write fewer mortgages, and those mortgages will be more expensive for western Wisconsin borrowers.“President Obama announced a mortgage modification program this week that will expand existing loan modification programs to help homeowners avoid bankruptcy. I support these efforts and believe they should be given a chance to work. Bankruptcy should always be the absolute last resort for homeowners. That’s why I cannot support this bill that will move more people into bankruptcy by allowing judges to unilaterally write down the value of one person’s home while leaving their neighbors high and dry.”
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today sent a letter signed by 18 of his colleagues to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton conveying deep concern for the 5,700 Hmong refugees detained in Thailand who may be forcibly repatriated to Laos by mid-2009. Thousands of Hmong refugees fled Laos in 1975 due to the threat of violence, and forced repatriation to Laos could be a death sentence for a number of the detainees.“Many Hmong people fought alongside us in Vietnam and sacrificed a lot for our country,” Rep. Kind said. “Reports coming from a number of my constituents who have friends and family in Laos indicate there is still discrimination and persecution towards Laos’s Hmong population. The United States must remain committed to recognizing the service of the Hmong people and insist that humanitarian workers are allowed to access and help these refugees.”Rep. Kind also met Wednesday with Thailand’s acting ambassador, Damrong Kraikruan, to urge the Thai government to allow access to the detainees by the United Nations High Commission on Refugees (UNHCR) in order to determine their refugee status.Wisconsin members on the letter in addition to U.S. Rep. Kind are: U.S. Rep. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI-2), U.S. Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI-4), U.S. Rep. Steve Kagen, (D-WI-8), and U.S. Rep. Tom Petri (R-WI-6).
02.26.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today commended President Obama for presenting a budget to Congress that represents an honest assessment of our financial situation, marking a return to budgeting and fiscal responsibility principles that will help get our fiscal house back in order.“This budget does not pull any punches – it is a true assessment of where we are: running a record deficit and a national debt of more than $10 trillion,” Rep. Kind said. “The budget gimmicks of the last eight years that have masked our true financial situation are a thing of the past – this Administration has fully accounted for the two wars we are fighting, natural disasters, and fixes to the tax structure we make every year. I agree with President Obama that it is time to be direct with the American people so we can develop honest solutions to the critical challenges we face.”Rep. Kind also commended the Administration for keeping its pledge to reduce wasteful agriculture subsidies. The budget phases down direct payments over three years by reducing the income cap of $750,000 ($1.5 million for couples) down to $500,000. It also reduces crop insurance subsidies and eliminates payments to cotton producers for storing USDA-purchased cotton (a subsidy given to no other commodity).I am encouraged that President Obama has held true to his pledge to root out waste in agriculture programs,” Rep. Kind said. “These commonsense reforms will reduce taxpayer subsidies to large agribusinesses and wealthy individuals while still maintaining a vital safety net for farmers during these tough economic times.”
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) participated Monday in the White House’s “Fiscal Responsibility Summit” convened by President Obama to begin addressing the country’s long-term fiscal challenges. This summit was in response to concerns raised by Rep. Kind and others about the sustainability of projected federal spending.“The summit was a productive meeting that brought together the Administration, members of both parties in Congress, and economic experts to begin the difficult process of getting our fiscal house back in order,” Rep. Kind said. “Under our current course, we are committed to spending $57 trillion over the next 75 years that we don’t have. This is obviously unsustainable, and we must put a plan in action now so that we can protect the crucial programs people depend on down the road.”The summit broke the members up into several groups to discuss necessary reforms in health care, social security, the budget, the tax system, and the defense system. Rep. Kind, as a member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Health, participated in the health care group.“There is broad consensus that containing health care costs is crucial to this process,” Kind said. “I have long believed we need to change the way providers are reimbursed in this country to focus on outcomes. We have got to get to a system that starts rewarding what works.”This evening President Obama will address a joint session of Congress and discuss some of the ways he plans to address our fiscal crisis, including: using honest budgeting that does not rely on gimmicks to hide deficits, making pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) budgeting the standard, and reducing the deficit by half in his first term“President Obama’s commitment to honest budgeting, using pay-as-you-go principles is an admirable step forward in this process,” Kind added. “For too long, the Bush Administration masked the deficit by not including things we knew were coming – like spending for Iraq or a fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax. With everything on the table we will be in a better position to turn things around.”
02.24.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement following President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress:“Tonight, President Obama leveled with the American people about the challenges we face and laid out a plan of how we will meet those challenges and emerge on the other side a stronger country.“President Obama showed us tonight that he is focused on more than just getting us through the economic crisis – he has a vision for sustained economic growth over the long-term. From investments included in the Economic Recovery Plan he signed last week, to new initiatives to reform health care, expand the renewable energy industry, and improve education, he is changing the mentality of the American government from ‘borrow and spend’ to ‘save and invest.’“I especially appreciated President Obama’s commitment to return to honest budgeting and pay-as-you-go principles to address unsustainable future federal spending commitments. For too long, the reality of our fiscal situation was masked by budget gimmicks and accounting tricks. I agree with President Obama that being honest with the American people is the only way to reach honest solutions to the problems we face.”
02.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in advance of his attendance at the White House’s “Fiscal Responsibility Summit” Monday. The summit is in response to concerns raised by Rep. Kind (D-WI), Vice-Chair of the New Democrat Coalition and member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and others including Majority Leader Hoyer (D-MD), Senate Budget Chairman Conrad (D-ND), and Blue Dog Coalition member Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN).“I am pleased President-elect Obama has recognized the need to begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges and I look forward to being a part of this summit. Extraordinary economic times have required extraordinary measures, but we simply cannot take an ‘out of sight-out of mind’ attitude to our long-term fiscal health. The Economic Recovery Package just signed into law essentially doubled our trillion-dollar 2009 deficit in one-fell-swoop, and we have a projected $57 trillion in unfunded obligations over the next 75 years.“Addressing both the looming deficit and our future unfunded obligations will send a message to the bond markets that we are not simply taking a short-term approach to solving this economic crisis. I appreciate President-elect Obama’s commitment to this issue and I look forward to working with him and his Administration as we decide how to best ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills.”
02.18.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –In an effort to demonstrate how the public’s economic recovery dollars will be put in action, U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) today visited Eau Claire’s Luther Midelfort to highlight a major nationwide investment in health information technology (HIT) that will create jobs and save lives and money. Luther Midelfort is one of Wisconsin’s leading health care facilities in HIT.The Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides $19 billion to accelerate adoption of HIT systems by 2019 to modernize the health care system, create thousands of high tech jobs, save billions of dollars, reduce medical errors and improve quality. Right now only 4-5 percent of hospitals have fully functional electronic health record systems.“This investment in HIT will not only create jobs, it will improve health care quality for Americans, and actually save everyone money down the road,” Rep. Kind said. “This is exactly the type of investment we should be making to get our economy moving again – it’s a long-term plan to develop a new industry and create the jobs of the future. We are lucky in western Wisconsin to have hospitals like Luther Midelfort who are at the cutting-edge of this technology, and what they are doing here is what we are hoping to accomplish in hospitals across the nation.”Dr. John Halamka, Chief Information Officer at Harvard Medical School estimates the HIT policy will create 200,000 jobs nationwide, many of them in the high-tech sectors. In addition to increased safety and quality HIT provides, the systems are also more efficient. Implementing HIT systems nationwide is estimated to reduce health costs for the federal government by more than $12 billion in 10 years. This will also translate into $1-2 billion a year in savings on personal healthcare premiums for Americans.Luther Midelfort has been recognized as a leader in health information technology and is an example of what hospitals across the country will be implementing with help from the Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Dr. David Blair and registered nurse Anna Sylla demonstrated Luther Midelfort’s health care information technology and emphasized the benefits this investment will have for the public.“Health information technology allows good health care facilities to do what they do better,” said Dr. Blair, who chaired a team of physicians within the Mayo Health System charged with customizing and determining how a Systemwide Electronic Medical Record (EMR) would fit into the daily use of its providers.The Mayo Health System EMR, among other things, alerts health care providers of patient allergies, lab results or vital signs that are abnormal, as well as upcoming tests or checks, such as cholesterol screenings, tetanus boosters or mammograms. It interacts with a handheld Caremobile device that instantaneously updates the EMR with patient treatment and medications, while cross referencing patient allergies or existing treatment regimens.“The EMR is not about technology, systems or data,” said Dr. Randall Linton, Luther Midelfort president and CEO. “It’s about one thing – improving the quality and safety of patient care.”
02.14.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today released new information about how the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Act will benefit Wisconsin. The final bill passed the House today and is up for a vote in the Senate this evening.“It will take time to turn this economy around, but this package is a smart balance of tax cuts, aid to states and those in need, and infrastructure investment that will create and retain jobs and help grow the economy of the future,” Rep. Kind said.Recovery Plan by the Numbers:Creates or saves 70,000 jobs in Wisconsin over the next two years. Provides a “Making Work Pay” tax cut of up to $800 for 2.2 million Wisconsin workers and their families, designed to start paying out immediately into workers’ paychecks, as well as tax cuts for small businesses. Modernizes our infrastructure and creates jobs with an extra $716.4 million for infrastructure in Wisconsin, $529.1 million for roads and bridges alone. Modernizes schools and makes college more affordable with improved Pell Grants for the 91,532 Pell Grant recipients in Wisconsin and a higher education tax credit for 63,000 students in the state. Helps workers hurt by the economy, expanding unemployment and maintaining health care benefits for the 191,400 of Wisconsinites that are out of work right now. Saves the jobs of teachers, police officers, health care workers, and protects the vital services they provide through direct aid to the Wisconsin state government.Note: Additional Wisconsin-specific information will be released as it becomes available.
02.09.2009	I recently returned from an official Congressional Delegation trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan. While I have been able to visit our troops in the field in Iraq four times, this was my first trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan. I was immediately sobered by the gravity of the situation there. This is an area of the world that has taken a backseat over the last seven years, and the challenges we face there are serious. The complexities of Afghanistan and Pakistan are much greater than what the military faces even in Iraq, and I believe we need to shift our focus back to these countries.The war in Iraq has forced our military presence in Afghanistan to operate with half the resources and focus necessary to get the job done. As a result we are playing catch up against a resurgent enemy in the Taliban that is reconstituting and gaining more and more ground, not because they are popular, but because they have faced little to no opposition.There are also practical issues in Afghanistan and Pakistan that exacerbate the situation. The mountainous terrain in this part of the world is unforgiving, making it difficult to govern. Right now, Afghanistan and Pakistan are not in control of their border regions, allowing people to move freely across a porous border. Even more difficult is that Afghanistan is a war-torn country where a culture of corruption and poverty has weakened institutional structures that would support a successful democracy.A comprehensive, regional strategy for this part of the world is long overdue. We must engage our allies in this effort, and help Afghanistan militarily and economically. Afghanistan’s President Hamid Karzai and Pakistan’s President Ali Zardari, both of whom we met, understand that these wars will be won not by military might, but by being able to offer better opportunities for their people. The Obama Administration is currently considering a strategy shift in these countries. General McKiernan, the top commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan has suggested implementing a 3-5 year strategy that seeks to deny militants safe havens in the region, marginalize the Taliban, develop a proficient and capable Afghan army, contain regional extremism, and perhaps most difficult, develop conditions for a viable government. I look forward to working with President Obama as he considers the direction he will take for the region. While we were in Afghanistan, a suicide bomber killed 21 Afghan police cadets in Kandahar, underscoring just what we’re up against. Despite this, our troops on the ground remain highly motivated. They really are the best America has to offer. I was able to meet some of our Wisconsin troops stationed in Afghanistan and was, as always, very encouraged to see their remarkably high morale, even in such difficult and dangerous conditions. I am not going to fool you – securing this region of the world is going to be difficult and it will not happen overnight. Ultimately I believe the choice we face is between allowing Afghanistan to fail and become a safe haven for terrorists, or making a commitment to work hard with the good people we have there who want nothing more than to create a safe and secure future for their citizens. I believe it is in our interest, and the world’s interest, to choose the latter. Ron talks with Wisconsin soldiers serving in Afghanistan.
02.06.2009	I recently returned from an official Congressional Delegation trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan. While I have been able to visit our troops in the field in Iraq four times, this was my first trip to Afghanistan and Pakistan. I was immediately sobered by the gravity of the situation there. This is an area of the world that has taken a backseat over the last seven years, and the challenges we face there are serious. The complexities of Afghanistan and Pakistan are much greater than what the military faces even in Iraq, and I believe we need to shift our focus back to these countries. The war in Iraq has forced our military presence in Afghanistan to operate with half the resources and focus necessary to get the job done. As a result we are playing catch up against a resurgent enemy in the Taliban that is reconstituting and gaining more and more ground, not because they are popular, but because they have faced little to no opposition.There are also practical issues in Afghanistan and Pakistan that exacerbate the situation. The mountainous terrain in this part of the world is unforgiving, making it difficult to govern. Right now, Afghanistan and Pakistan are not in control of their border regions, allowing people to move freely across a porous border. Even more difficult is that Afghanistan is a war-torn country where a culture of corruption and poverty has weakened institutional structures that would support a successful democracy.A comprehensive, regional strategy for this part of the world is long overdue. We must engage our allies in this effort, and help Afghanistan militarily and economically. Afghanistan’s President Hamid Karzai and Pakistan’s President Ali Zardari, both of whom we met, understand that these wars will be won not by military might, but by being able to offer better opportunities for their people.The Obama Administration is currently considering a strategy shift in these countries. General McKiernan, the top commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan has suggested implementing a 3-5 year strategy that seeks to deny militants safe havens in the region, marginalize the Taliban, develop a proficient and capable Afghan army, contain regional extremism, and perhaps most difficult, develop conditions for a viable government. I look forward to working with President Obama as he considers the direction he will take for the region.While we were in Afghanistan, a suicide bomber killed 21 Afghan police cadets in Kandahar, underscoring just what we’re up against. Despite this, our troops on the ground remain highly motivated. They really are the best America has to offer. I was able to meet some of our Wisconsin troops stationed in Afghanistan and was, as always, very encouraged to see their remarkably high morale, even in such difficult and dangerous conditions.I am not going to fool you – securing this region of the world is going to be difficult and it will not happen overnight. Ultimately I believe the choice we face is between allowing Afghanistan to fail and become a safe haven for terrorists, or making a commitment to work hard with the good people we have there who want nothing more than to create a safe and secure future for their citizens. I believe it is in our interest, and the world’s interest, to choose the latter.
02.05.2009	Today I joined a majority of my colleagues in the House to send President Obama an expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which funds BadgerCare in Wisconsin. We have been trying to get this important legislation passed for a long time, and so I was especially proud to be able to attend the White House ceremony where President Obama signed this bill into law. By renewing and improving SCHIP, the bill will provide healthcare coverage for 11 million children nationwide – including 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for coverage, but not enrolled. While Wisconsin is already a leader in providing healthcare coverage for kids, this bill will allow us to do even more. In these tough economic times, expanding SCHIP is not only the right thing to do for our kids and families, it will promote preventive care and over the long-run lower healthcare costs for everyone.
02.04.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House to send to President Obama an expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which funds BadgerCare in Wisconsin. By renewing and improving SCHIP, the bill will provide healthcare coverage for 11 million children nationwide – including 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for coverage, but not enrolled. As a member of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, which had a part in crafting this bill, Rep. Kind will attend today’s bill signing ceremony at the White House.“We’ve been trying to do this for a long time, and I am proud I will be able to witness President Obama sign this bill into law,” Rep. Kind said. “We are lucky that Wisconsin already is a leader in providing healthcare coverage for kids, but this bill will allow us to do even more. In these tough economic times, expanding SCHIP is not only the right thing to do for our kids and families, it will promote preventive care and over the long-run lower healthcare costs for everyone.”BadgerCare provides coverage to working families who earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. This bill will provide Wisconsin with an additional $18.9 million a year to expand BadgerCare coverage to kids who qualify but are not currently insured.To fund the increase in SCHIP, the bill raises the federal tax on cigarette packs by 61 cents. Higher cigarette taxes are one of the most effective ways to reduce tobacco use, especially among children who are more price sensitive than adults. Adults would also be less likely to smoke, which means fewer smoking related illnesses and lower health costs. A tax increase of 61 cents would lead to nearly $44 billion in long-term health savings nationwide, more than 900,000 fewer smoking-related deaths, and nearly 233,000 fewer smoking-harmed births over just five years.“With all the proven adverse health effects of smoking, the more kids we can keep from starting and the more adults we can encourage to quit – the better,” Rep. Kind said. “Kids are cost-sensitive, so this is the single most important thing we can do to prevent kids from smoking. And if it allows us to extend coverage to an additional four million kids nationwide, even better. This is a win-win.
01.30.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today encouraged victims of last June’s floods to take advantage of new tax provisions he advanced to help families and businesses rebuild.“The floods of last summer devastated homes and businesses across Wisconsin,” Rep. Kind said. “Now, as families and businesses alike struggle with the economic downturn, I encourage those who sustained losses from the floods to look into taking advantage of these new tax provisions put in place to help them.”Rep. Kind is a member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, and following the floods last summer he introduced legislation to establish a new disaster tax program that would help not only those affected by the Midwest flooding, but anyone devastated by any natural disaster, be it a flood, tornado, or hurricane. In September 2008, Rep. Kind’s provisions were enacted as part of a larger bill that included even more help for families and businesses affected by the Midwest flooding.In Wisconsin, the new provisions will help those affected by flooding between May 20, 2008, and July 31, 2008. Individuals, businesses, and local governments residing in the following counties may be eligible: Adams, Calumet, Crawford, Columbia, Dane, Dodge, Fond du Lac, Grant, Green Lake, Iowa, Jefferson, Juneau, Kenosha, La Crosse, Lafayette, Marquette, Manitowoc, Milwaukee, Monroe, Ozaukee, Racine, Rock, Richland, Sauk, Sheboygan, Vernon, Walworth, Washington, Waukesha and Winnebago Counties.For more information on additional provisions for flood victims and to find out if you are eligible, go to www.irs.gov for the Publication 4492-B, Information for Affected Taxpayers in the Midwestern Disaster Areas.Some of the provisions available include:Removal of Loss LimitationsThe newly enacted provisions allow people who suffered losses of personal property as a result of the floods to deduct the entire amount of unreimbursed losses. Ordinarily a victim could only deduct losses less $100 and 10% of their adjusted gross income. This is applicable to taxpayers that itemize their deductions.Cancellation of DebtIndividuals whose main home was located in the disaster area will not have to include in income any non-business debt (such as a mortgage) that is cancelled after the disaster date but before Jan. 1, 2010. Usually, the cancellation of debt is treated as income by the person for whom the debt is forgiven.Earned Income Tax Credit and Refundable Child Tax CreditEligible individuals can choose to calculate their earned income tax credit (EITC) or refundable child tax credit using their prior year’s earned income. Eligible individuals earned income in 2008 is less than their earned income in 2007 and who was displaced from their main home because of the disaster. Taxpayers eligible to make the choice should figure their EITC and refundable child tax credit using their earned income for each year before making the choice to see which gives them the higher credits.Education CreditsThe recently enacted provision doubles the Hope and Lifetime Learning educational credits from $1,800 to $3,600 for each eligible student going to school at eligible institutions in the counties listed above. It also expands the Lifetime Learning Credit from 20 percent to 40 percent.Exemption for Taxpayers Housing Individuals Displaced by the Midwestern DisastersTaxpayers who provided housing in their main homes to individuals displaced by the severe storms, tornadoes, or flooding that occurred in the Midwestern Disaster Areas may be able to claim an additional exemption amount of $500 for each such displaced individual.Increase in the Standard Mileage Rate for Charitable Use of VehiclesThe recently enacted legislation provides special standard mileage rates for taxpayers who used their vehicles to provide charitable services related solely to the flooding. The special rate is 36 cents per mile for the period May 2, 2008, through June 30, 2008. For the period July 1, 2008, through Dec. 31, 2008, the special rate is 41 cents per mile. Taxpayers may also exclude from income any amounts received as mileage reimbursement for the use of a private passenger automobile for the benefit of a qualified charitable organization in responding to the flooding.
01.28.2009	WASHINGTON, DC –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in support of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act:“These are unprecedented economic times, and they require unprecedented action. Economic conditions in western Wisconsin and across the country are quickly deteriorating. While there may be disagreements about how we address it, there is overwhelming consensus that we must act.“I believe this package is bold, is fast acting, and that it will create jobs. However it is also important that this package has an end date so that we don’t continue to incur additional unfunded obligations into the future.“It strikes the right balance: tax cuts to give relief and spending power to 95 percent of American families, help for men and women hit the hardest by this recession, aid to state and local governments, and investment in infrastructure and new industries that will create jobs now. “Finally, this package includes the accountability and transparency that was missing during the Bush Administration. People will know where and how their tax dollars are being spent and a new board will work to prevent fraud and waste.”
01.27.2009	Today we gave final approval, and President Obama signed, landmark legislation that will begin to close the gender pay gap in this country. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act reverses a Supreme Court decision that has kept women from pursuing pay discrimination claimsThis issue is as basic as it gets. You should not be paid less because you are a woman. You should not be treated differently because of the color of your skin or your religious beliefs. The Supreme Court has tried to roll back the clock on this issue of basic fairness, but Congress will not stand for it.Lilly Ledbetter worked for nearly 20 years at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. She sued the company after learning that she was paid less than her male counterparts at the facility, despite having more experience than several of them. A jury found that her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her but the Supreme Court said that Ledbetter had waited too long to sue for pay discrimination, despite the fact that she filed a charge with the U.S. EEOC as soon as she learned of the pay discrimination. At a time when too many workers are seeing their jobs and wages slashed, we’ve got to make sure that all Americans are paid fairly for their hard work.
01.23.2009	Discussion will Focus on Issues Coming Before the New Congress & AdministrationWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that he will hold a LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Tuesday, January 27, 2009 from 7:00-8:00 p.m. CST. The discussion will focus on issues coming before the new Congress and Administration, including the economy and health care.The Telephone Town Hall Meeting allows Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once. The meetings provide an opportunity for constituents to hear from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them, and communicate their questions and concerns directly back to him from their own home.“These are trying times for our country, and Congress is poised to act on legislation that will work to get our economy back on track and help families who are struggling,” Rep. Kind said. “While I will continue to enjoy meeting with residents face-to-face at my conventional town hall meetings across the district, I understand they can be difficult for people to attend, given the unpredictable weather, work, family, or health reasons. This way, we can have a discussion about these important issues, and people can stay in their own homes.”Teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Tuesday (approximately 7:00 p.m. CST), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the Telephone Town Hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.Interested constituents may also dial-into the Telephone Town Hall themselves by calling (toll-free) 1-877-229-8493, and entering the code 13433. Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Anne Lupardus Hanson at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the Telephone Town Hall.
01.22.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – As the Ways & Means Committee met today to examine the tax proposals of the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) stressed that the recovery package must be focused on investments that will save money down the road, as well as the eventual need for budget reform to deal with the long-term fiscal consequences of this plan.“I firmly believe that this money will be best spent on investments that will not only create jobs now, but save money in the long-run through steps like fixing our crumbling infrastructure and reducing health care costs through technology,” Rep. Kind said. “We have had a severe lack of long-term investment over the last decade, and that, coupled with out of control spending on other things, is part of the reason we are in this situation. My hope is that this package will change that.”Many of the tax proposals to be included in the American Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Plan are designed to couple a short-term boost to consumer spending with long-term investments. Individual tax relief, helping businesses free up capital to create jobs, promoting home buying, supporting state and local governments, and investing in health care technology, education and renewable energy are included in the bill. Additional help for families who are struggling, such as an extension of Unemployment Insurance and help for those who want to continue their health coverage after losing their job are also included. For more information on the tax proposals included, go to: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/MoreInfo.asp?section=50.“Following the passage of additional economic recovery legislation, our long-term fiscal challenges will be greatly exacerbated,” Rep. Kind continued. “While swift and comprehensive action is needed to stem a greater economic downturn, we also must recognize that our long-term spending obligations are unsustainable. Reforming our budget through a fiscal commission or bipartisan summit will act to ensure that future generations are not still paying for this bill.”
01.21.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House to pass additional accountability measures on funds distributed to banks as part of the Financial Rescue Package passed last fall. H.R. 384, the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) Reform and Accountability Act, will strengthen accountability, close loopholes, increase transparency, and require the Treasury Department to take steps on foreclosure mitigation.“The Bush Administration’s accountability of these funds was virtually non-existent,” Rep. Kind said. “At the very least, taxpayers deserve to know how much of their money is being spent, and what it is being spent on. This bill goes much further than that.”The Bush Administration’s Treasury Department failed to follow congressional intent on the spending of the financial rescue funds, and did not satisfactorily track or explain how $350 billion of taxpayer money was spent. H.R. 384 takes the following steps to ensure this does not happen with the second half of the TARP funds. It:Strengthens accountability, closes loopholes, increases transparency -- forcing banks to report how government funds are being spent; Requires the Treasury Department to take significant steps on foreclosure mitigation; Affirms that TARP should be used to benefit small financial institutions, consumer lending, auto companies, and municipalities; and Limits bonuses for executives of firms participating in TARP.“How we spend this money is crucial to the stability of the American economy, and it is our job to ensure it is being targeted in the most effective way,” Rep. Kind said. “I have often said the best way to ensure accountability is to let the sunshine in, and that is what this bill does."
01.20.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement regarding the inauguration of our 44th President, Barack Obama.“Today, millions of people braved the cold and the crowds to celebrate one of our nation’s proudest moments. Today truly is about breaking down barriers and taking another step in the evolution of our democracy – moving past issues of race and gender, and moving back to our great tradition of unity in difficult times.“I agree with President Obama that our country is at its best when we can break through the partisan divide and come together in common purpose. I hope the excitement and “yes we can” spirit that has permeated his campaign will continue as our country faces some of the biggest challenges we’ve seen. I hope the people who came out in droves to vote for the very first time remain engaged in the discourse. And I hope that every American – Democrat, Republican, or Independent – took a moment today to appreciate the history we witnessed and the renewal of our great democracy.”
01.16.2009	Recognizes Concerns Raised by Kind, Others on Country’s Long-term Fiscal ChallengesWASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement after President-elect Obama indicated to the Washington Post that he will convene a Fiscal Responsibility Summit before he presents his first budget to Congress. The summit is in response to concerns raised by Rep. Kind (D-WI), member of the New Democrat Coalition, and others including Majority Leader Hoyer (D-MD), Senate Budget Chairman Conrad (D-ND), and Blue Dog Coalition member Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN).“I am pleased President-elect Obama has recognized the need to begin dealing with our long-term fiscal challenges before the next budget. The Economic Recovery Package moving through Congress will essentially double our trillion-dollar 2009 deficit in one-fell-swoop, and while extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures, we simply cannot take an ‘out of sight-out of mind’ attitude to the deficit.“While I still believe the Stimulus Package is the best vehicle to address the looming deficit, and send a message to the bond markets that we are not simply taking a short-term approach to solving this economic crisis, I appreciate President-elect Obama’s commitment to this issue. I hope to be of help to him and his Administration as we decide how to best address our long-term funding obligations and help ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills.”Read more about President-elect Obama’s plan for a “Fiscal Responsibility Summit” at: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/15/AR2009011504114_pf.html
01.14.2009	SCHIP Bill will Help BadgerCare Provide Coverage to More Wisconsin KidsWASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House (289-139) in voting to advance an expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which funds BadgerCare in Wisconsin. By renewing and improving SCHIP, the bill will provide healthcare coverage for 11 million children nationwide – including 4 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for coverage, but not enrolled.“Wisconsin already is a leader in providing health care coverage for kids, and this bill will allow us to do even more,” Rep. Kind said. “In these tough economic times, parents are having even greater difficulty finding ways to pay for their kids’ health insurance. This is not only the right thing to do for our kids and families, expanding coverage will promote preventive care and lower health insurance costs for everyone.”BadgerCare provides health care to working families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. This bill will provide Wisconsin with an additional $18.9 million a year to expand BadgerCare coverage to kids who qualify but are not currently insured.To fund the increase in SCHIP, the bill raises the federal tax on cigarette packs by 61 cents. Higher cigarette taxes are one of the most effective ways to reduce tobacco use, especially among children who are more price sensitive than adults. Adults would also be less likely to smoke, which means fewer smoking related illnesses and lower health costs. A tax increase of 61 cents would lead to nearly $44 billion in long-term health savings nationwide, more than 900,000 fewer smoking-related deaths, and nearly 233,000 fewer smoking-harmed births over just five years.“With all the proven adverse health effects of smoking, the more kids we can keep from starting and the more adults we can encourage to quit – the better,” Rep. Kind said. “Each pack of cigarettes sold in Wisconsin costs the state nearly $10 in related health care expenses. Not only is the increase the single most important thing we can do to prevent kids from smoking, it will save lives and save money, and it will help provide health care coverage for an additional four million kids nationwide.”This legislation was advanced several times in the last Congress, only to face two vetoes by President Bush. The goal is to get the bill to President-elect Obama for signature sometime in the next few weeks
01.12.2009	For the eleventh consecutive year, I returned a substantial amount of my office operating budget to the Federal Treasury, bringing the total I have returned as a member of Congress to more than $1 million. I recognize that a lot of money is going out of the Federal Treasury right now to try and get our economy back on track– so I am pleased to be able to put some back in. I have always tried to manage my office budget as I know western Wisconsin families manage their family budgets. In these trying economic times, I believe it is important that I lead by example and run an efficient but effective congressional office.I didn’t come to Washington to pass record deficits on to my kids and grandkids. As a young man I served in the office of Senator William Proxmire, and learned the value of fiscal responsibility. I am committed to protecting taxpayer dollars in Congress.Read more about my giveback here.
01.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), vice-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, made the following statement following an economic forecast from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimating that President-elect Obama will inherit a $1.2 trillion deficit in 2009:“This report reinforces that while we work to develop the best plan to revive our economy and start creating jobs again, we simply cannot take an ‘out of sight-out of mind’ attitude to doubling in one-fell swoop an already astronomical deficit. I believe any stimulus package should address this issue head on through a fiscal commission, a bipartisan budget summit, or the like.“Serious and swift government action is absolutely needed for our economy to recover, but equally as important is addressing unfunded obligations we will have down the road. This will send a message to the bond markets that we are not simply taking a short-term approach to solving this economic crisis, and help ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills.“President-elect Obama is already taking great strides on this issue, appointing a government performance officer and recognizing the need to address our long-term fiscal challenges. I look forward to working with them on this important endeavor.”The full CBO Report can be found at: https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/99xx/doc9957/01-07-Outlook.pdf.
01.07.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), vice-chair of the New Democrat Coalition, made the following statement following an economic forecast from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimating that President-elect Obama will inherit a $1.2 trillion deficit in 2009:“This report reinforces that while we work to develop the best plan to revive our economy and start creating jobs again, we simply cannot take an ‘out of sight-out of mind’ attitude to doubling in one-fell swoop an already astronomical deficit. I believe any stimulus package should address this issue head on through a fiscal commission, a bipartisan budget summit, or the like.“Serious and swift government action is absolutely needed for our economy to recover, but equally as important is addressing unfunded obligations we will have down the road. This will send a message to the bond markets that we are not simply taking a short-term approach to solving this economic crisis, and help ensure that future generations are not stuck with our unpaid bills.“President-elect Obama is already taking great strides on this issue, appointing a government performance officer and recognizing the need to address our long-term fiscal challenges. I look forward to working with them on this important endeavor.”The full CBO Report can be found at: https://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/99xx/doc9957/01-07-Outlook.pdf.
01.01.2009	On Veterans Day I had the honor of presenting a number of long-overdue medals to a World War II veteran, Merlin Wahlund of Pepin, at a ceremony in Menomonie. Merlin Wahlund served in the U.S. Army and as a member of the Merchant Marine during World War II and earned a number of medals in recognition of his service: the Merchant Marine Emblem, the Victory Medal, the Honorable Service Button, the Atlantic War Zone Bar and Medal, and the Presidential Testimonial Letter (Signed by Harry Truman). I was proud that my office was able to help Merlin get these medals that he deserved. After the presentation, I had the pleasure of helping to record Merlin’s story for submission to the Veterans History Project (VHP). VHP is a collection of veterans’ testimonials housed in the Library of Congress that I helped create by authoring legislation in 2000.If you are a veteran and you believe you may be entitled to medals for your service, please contact my Eau Claire office (715-831-9214). Ron presents Merlin with his medals.
12.19.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement President Bush’s decision to approve $17.4 billion in emergency bridge loans to rescue the auto industry:“I am pleased that President Bush stuck to his word and made this happen for all the men and women whose livelihoods depend on the auto industry. Allowing these manufacturing giants to fail would have a devastating domino effect on the economy, and there were simply too many jobs in Wisconsin and across America on the line to let it happen. This was the responsible thing to do in these extraordinary times.“I recognize that this situation is not ideal, and no one is completely pleased with the package or even having to do this in the first place. That said – these loans come with the condition that the companies restructure and change the way they do business to become competitive again at home and abroad. This is crucial not only to ensure that the workers and communities that depend on these good, family-supporting jobs are not harmed in the long run, but also to ensure that that the taxpayers get a return for this investment at the end of the day.”
12.17.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement on President-elect Obama’s selection of former Governor of Iowa Tom Vilsack as USDA Secretary:“I am optimistic about this appointment – Tom Vilsack has a strong commitment to land and water conservation policy, and has indicated a desire to reform USDA agriculture payments, including a tighter cap on commodity subsidies. It is my hope that these beliefs, coupled with President-elect Obama’s recent commitment to combat waste in subsidy programs, will result in meaningful reforms.“I believe Tom Vilsack is someone who sees the big picture of agriculture policy – how production, trade, conservation, and nutrition fit together. I look forward to working with him and the Obama Administration in any way I can to offer a fresh approach to agriculture policy in America.”
12.15.2008	“This report should serve as a wakeup call to Congress and the country”WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressmen Ron Kind (D-WI) and Jim Cooper (D-TN) today released the following statements in response to news that the nation’s 2008 budget deficit topped $1 trillion, and that the US government faces a shortfall of more than $50 trillion in funding for Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other government promises. The news was contained in the 2008 Financial Report of the United States Government, released by Treasury after markets closed on Monday, December 15.“For too long we have been financing government with money we don’t have, on the backs of our kids and grandkids,” said Kind, a prominent member of the New Democrat Coalition. “It is my hope that now, armed with this report, we can finally convince our colleagues in Congress to get serious about the long term fiscal health of this country. I believe that any additional efforts to stimulate our economy must also include a plan to pay for it in the long run – through a bipartisan budget summit, or the like. We are encouraged by indicators that the incoming Obama Administration will be focused on this issue, and look forward to working with them.”“This report should serve as a wakeup call to Congress and the country,” said Cooper, a Blue Dog Democrat and deficit hawk. “It should really scare people about the future of the economy. We must get our economy back on track in the short term, but we can only do it in a way that restores balance to our long-term budget process. I look forward to working with President-elect Obama to get a handle on our fiscal crisis. We can’t afford to wait any longer.”
12.10.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement on H.R. 7321 the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, which the House is expected to act on as early as this evening:“The failure of the auto industry would have a devastating domino effect on the American economy, and with up to 3 million American jobs on the line, more than 23,000 in Wisconsin alone, I believe that allowing their collapse is not an option.“But to move forward on this rescue plan, we had to make sure that it was a ‘bridge loan to somewhere,’ not a ‘bridge loan to nowhere.’ I am pleased the plan imposes mandatory restructuring plans, a government ‘Car Czar,’ limits on executive pay, and provisions ensuring taxpayers are the first to be repaid over stockholders or anyone else. I believe this plan protects taxpayer dollars while saving American jobs and working to help make these companies competitive again at home and abroad.“I believe we need to make a decision in this country whether we are going to continue to produce the products we need, or simply import everything from other countries. The auto industry is a vital part of our manufacturing capacity as a nation. It is my hope that this bridge loan will provide an opportunity to reform this industry for its long-term viability producing the next generation of fuel-efficient vehicles.”
12.01.2008	
11.20.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement on any possible financial assistance to the auto industry:“I am worried about the effect losing our auto industry would have on our already weakened economy. Just this week, an auto parts manufacturer in Prairie du Chien announced that they would eliminate another third of their workforce due to the problems the auto industry is having. I am afraid that this is just the tip of an enormous iceberg in terms of the ripple effect the failure of the auto industry would have across the nation.“However, we cannot simply give Detroit a blank check. Any potential rescue plan must require the Big Three to map out major reforms that will make them competitive again so that taxpayer money is not sent to failing operations. We must also ensure that there are no golden parachutes or lavish pay for corporate executives, and that taxpayers are reimbursed at the end of the day.“Ultimately, to turn this economy around we are going to need a strong manufacturing sector, and the auto manufacturers are large part of that. I am hopeful we will find a way to keep our auto industry viable while protecting taxpayers.”
10.28.2008	Ways & Means Committee to Examine Best Ways for Congress to Help Grow our Economy, Create JobsWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will return to Washington tomorrow to participate in a House Ways and Means Committee hearing on the best ways to turn the economy around. The hearing will focus on the challenges facing American families and State and local governments during the economic downturn and solutions to improve economic security and create new jobs. The hearing will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, October 29, 2008, beginning at 10:00 a.m. EDT/9:00 a.m. CDT. The hearing will be broadcast live by C-SPAN and C-SPAN radio.“Families are struggling in western Wisconsin and across the country,” Rep. Kind said. “The country lost 760,000 jobs in 2008. We have got to get this economy turned around, and we can’t wait until next year to start. That’s why I’m returning to Washington to participate in this hearing, which will lay the groundwork for further congressional action to stabilize and stimulate the economy, invest in infrastructure, and put people back to work.”High unemployment, the housing crisis, a lack of confidence in the markets, and the rising cost of health care, food, tuition, and energy, have put many American families in an insecure and untenable financial situation. State and local governments are struggling as well with record budget shortfalls and growing inability to borrow money for key infrastructure investments that create jobs.Key reforms and investments by Congress can help turn this situation around, and the Committee will be hearing from a number of witnesses about different proposed strategies to grow our economy and create jobs. The Committee will hear from several governors and mayors about the challenges they face and the incentives that have worked for their local economies, as well as from economic, budget, and financial services experts, labor leaders, and transportation officials.For additional information on the hearing, go to: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/hearings.asp?formmode=detail&hearing=650
10.23.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Federal Highway Administration is making available more than $25 million to Wisconsin to repair highways and roads that were damaged in the flooding of August 2007 and June 2008. During the floods, transportation infrastructure across Wisconsin sustained substantial damage that included washed-out roadways and roads whose structural integrity was severely compromised.“Western Wisconsin was dealt a one-two punch with the devastating floods in August 2007 and then again less than a year later with the floods last June,” Rep. Kind said. “While the rain has long stopped, communities are still working to rebuild – and repairing transportation infrastructure is a vital part of that. These funds will help fix many of the roads that were washed away or damaged by these storms.”The Federal Highway Administration’s Emergency Relief program will provide approximately $5 million to the western Wisconsin counties of Crawford, Dane, La Crosse, Richland, Sauk, and Vernon to repair transportation infrastructure damaged in the floods of August 2007. In addition, $20 million will be awarded to 19 counties across Wisconsin (Columbia, Crawford, Dane, Dodge, Fond du Lac, Green, Green Lake, Iowa, Jefferson, Juneau, Kenosha, Lafayette, Marquette, Monroe, Richland, Rock, Sauk, Vernon, and Winnebago) that were affected by the recent flooding in June 2008. The June storms caused portions of at least 3 dozen state highways and 100 local roads and highways to be closed according to estimates by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation.The money will fund emergency repair work necessary to restore traffic flow as well as permanent repairs to return transportation infrastructure to its pre-disaster condition. The funds are part of $679 million being allocated to 28 states and Puerto Rico to repair roads and bridges damaged by a variety of natural disasters and catastrophic events. In total, Wisconsin will receive $25,031,586.
10.07.2008	By: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, Representing Wisconsin’s Third Congressional DistrictIn my career in Congress, there have been very few weeks like the last. After being told in no uncertain terms by the Treasury Secretary and the Federal Reserve Chairman that credit markets were shutting down and the U.S. economy would crumble without immediate action, a stunned Congress worked against the clock to turn what was at first a blank check proposal from the Administration into legislation that had safeguards and accountability to protect taxpayers.The public outcry against government action was swift and strong. Unfortunately, when the economic rescue bill was first brought to the floor, we got a glimpse of what inaction would mean. In a matter of minutes, the failed vote brought on a stock market crash that cost Americans $1.2 trillion. Western Wisconsin families saw their investments, their kids’ college funds, and their retirement savings lose tremendous value.As unnerving as that tumble was, however, the true danger lies not in the stock market, but in the fact that America’s economy relies heavily on the availability of credit. If we had allowed the credit market to freeze through continued uncertainty, there would be no credit available to anyone. No credit for individuals to pay their bills, no credit for students to pay their tuition next semester, and no credit for businesses large and small to pay their employees.I recognize that western Wisconsin families did not get us into this mess, and that there is a lot of anger about this plan. I spoke to a number of people in my district who were against this plan and who thought that we should simply let Wall Street fail. The sad fact of the matter is that punishing Wall Street by withholding a federal rescue plan not only would have taken down these giants, it would have eviscerated retirement savings, jobs, and any chance at all of economic growth for many years to come. I am angry that we were put in this situation, but I could not in good conscience let that happen to hardworking western Wisconsin families.That is not to say that those responsible for this mess will get off the hook without punishment. In fact, I supported the economic rescue plan because the changes we made to the initial proposal made this about Main Street, not Wall Street; about protecting taxpayers, not executive salaries. The bill we eventually passed ensured that taxpayers will be reimbursed at the end of the day, that there will be proper transparency and oversight over the Treasury Secretary’s spending decisions, and that there will be no golden parachutes for reckless Wall Street CEOs. Taxpayers will be the first to gain if and when the assets we buy rise again in value, and if after five years there is still a shortfall to taxpayers, the legislation requires Wall Street to make up the difference, meaning that the bill will not be passed on to future generations of taxpayers.For me, this debate was never about bailing out Wall Street tycoons – it has always been about easing the repercussions of the crisis on innocent workers and businesses. While a difficult decision, I believe supporting the economic rescue package was the right thing to do. I am hopeful that the bipartisanship shown through this crisis will carry into the new Congress, where we can enact effective oversight of our financial markets and get this economy back on track.
10.03.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement after joining a bipartisan majority of the House of Representatives in approving the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, a vital piece of legislation to preserve the strength of the American economy:“As Monday’s vote showed us, the consequences of not acting are dire. When the bill failed earlier this week, in a matter of minutes, the stock market lost $1.2 trillion and western Wisconsin families saw their investments, their kids’ college funds, and their retirement savings lose tremendous value.“The danger of inaction was much greater than the danger of action. My fear was that without this plan, we would see another economic free fall, followed by a long and painful recession in this country affecting people on Main Street more than anyone. Our credit markets were already shutting down. The result would be individuals unable to take out basic loans and businesses large and small unable to pay their employees.“The changes we made to the Bush Administration’s initial proposal made this rescue plan about Main Street, not Wall Street, about protecting taxpayers, not executive salaries. This bill now ensures that taxpayers will be reimbursed at the end of the day, that there will be proper transparency and oversight in the process, and that there will be no golden parachutes for Wall Street CEOs that helped get us into this mess. This was a much better bill, and it now goes a long way to protect the taxpayer’s investment.“I was outraged, however, that the Senate chose to add a number of extraneous items to this bill that will only add billions to our national debt. They used the urgency of action to include tax provisions without paying for them. The culture of deficit spending in this body has got to stop, and I do not appreciate the way the Senate has extorted the House into accepting billions in extraneous spending.”
09.29.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after the House narrowly rejected a plan to shore up capital markets and avert an economic recession:“I am disappointed that the House failed to pass this critical piece of legislation for the American economy. I supported this plan because I felt we were able to put enough protections, oversight, and transparency measures in place to ensure taxpayers would be reimbursed for their investment at the end of the day. I supported it because I fear that the danger of inaction far outweighs the danger of action. “I recognize that western Wisconsin families did not get us into this mess, and that there is a lot of anger about this plan. I am angry that we’re in this situation at all. However, the reality is that without this bill, there is a good chance that Wisconsin families could lose everything they have worked so hard for – their retirement savings, their investments, and their jobs. We must come back together and act, because it is absolutely necessary to prevent an economic meltdown.”
09.28.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on the economic rescue proposal being considered by the House as early as tomorrow:"The goal of this plan is to take the poison out of the market, get it stabilized, and ensure the free flow of credit. Most importantly though, it guarantees that taxpayers will be reimbursed for their investment at the end of the day."The bill coming before Congress is very different than what the Bush Administration proposed last weekend. We worked hard to make changes that protect taxpayers, improve oversight, and increase transparency. We now have a bill that protects Main Street, not Wall Street; one that protects American taxpayers, not CEO salaries."This is a rescue plan for the American economy. The reality is that without action, there is a good chance that Americans could lose everything they have worked so hard for. We cannot let that happen. This bill will allow us to continue moving forward."
09.25.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Wednesday passed (419-4) the Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008 (H.R. 7006), legislation based primarily on a bill by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), which he introduced in response to the June flooding in the Midwest (H.R. 6640). The bill establishes a national disaster tax relief program for families and businesses affected by floods, tornadoes, wildfires, hurricanes, or any other disaster that yields a presidential disaster declaration. If enacted, this program would extend tax benefits to those Wisconsin residents who were affected by the June flooding, allowing them to recover losses.“I am pleased that the House came together in a bipartisan way to pass needed tax relief for families and businesses affected by the recent natural disasters in Wisconsin and across the country,” said Rep. Kind, member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee. “By establishing a nationwide plan, this bill would ensure that victims can recover losses without having to wait for Congress to act in response to each disaster. I urge the Senate to accept and act quickly on this proposal for families in western Wisconsin and across America.”Specifically, the Disaster Tax Relief Act of 2008 (H.R. 7006) would:Allow taxpayers to write off and immediately recover demolition, clean up, repair, and environmental remediation expenses; Let more taxpayers claim individual property losses; Increase tax refunds for disaster victims by allowing them to carry back disaster losses five years instead of the current two years; Permit states to issue tax exempt bonds to help finance low interest loans that would be used by disaster victims to repair or rebuild their homes; and Increase the standard mileage rate used for calculating the tax deduction for charitable use of a vehicle from $0.14/mile up to $0.27 cents/mile.In the past, Congress has awarded tax relief to disaster victims in an ad hoc fashion, leaving many deserving individuals out. For example, in 2007, 32 states received presidential disaster declaration, but Congress extended disaster tax relief to only one state. Similarly, 2008 has seen 30 states garner disaster declarations, but so far none of them have received any tax relief to help rebuild. These tax benefits would be in place for disasters taking place over the next four years (until Dec. 31, 2011), at which time Congress will need to extend them.
09.24.2008	Kind: We Must Protect Main Street, Not Wall StreetWashington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today blasted the Bush Administration on pushing back on Congress for requesting executive compensation be limited in any economic rescue plan. Rep. Kind made the following statement:“The vast majority of people in this country, and certainly in western Wisconsin, have been responsible with their mortgage payments and with their investments. Western Wisconsin families did not get us into this mess.“That is why any economic rescue plan coming out of Congress must be focused on Main Street, not Wall Street. It must protect taxpayers, not executive compensation. It must include strong transparency, accountability, and oversight. Any economic rescue plan without these things will simply not be acceptable.”
09.23.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today made the following statement on the House’s overwhelming passage of the Great Lakes Compact, which now heads to President Bush for his signature:“This compact is a long time in the making and couldn’t be more important for the long-term health and sustainability of the Great Lakes.“The Great Lakes are an important part of not only our economy, but our heritage as well. We are lucky to have such an exceptional resource right in our backyard that supports business, recreation, and gives us a tremendous quality of life. With fresh water becoming scarcer in this country and around the world, protecting the lakes against large-scale and long-distance diversions, and ensuring their quality and longevity is vital.“Many competing interests were balanced in the development of this compact, a testament to just how imperative it was to get this done. I believe everyone involved should be very proud of the end product, and I was pleased to support its passage today.”
09.17.2008	Bill Includes Historic Investment in Renewable Energy, Additional Offshore Drilling, Infrastructure Development for Natural Gas & Immediate Release of Oil from the SPRWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) joined a majority in Congress Tuesday evening in passing a comprehensive energy plan for America – H.R. 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act. U.S. Rep. Kind hailed the plan as a way for Democrats and Republicans to come together to forge a path to energy independence.“Our strategy must be comprehensive and must be bipartisan,” Rep. Kind said. “Our national slogan simply cannot be ‘drill, drill, drill,’ instead it must be ‘invent, invent, invent.’ A drill-only policy will only increase our dangerous addiction to foreign oil. That’s why I was proud to advance this legislation, which begins to make the investments in renewable and clean technologies now that will prevent a situation like this from happening again.”Among its numerous provisions, H.R. 6889:Makes historic investment in renewable energy: The bill expands and extends tax incentives for renewable energy (such solar, wind, and biofuels), as well as for plug-in hybrid cars, energy efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. Investments in renewable energy create three to five times as many jobs as investments in fossil-fuel energy. Opens up additional offshore areas for responsible drilling: Permits leasing between 50 and 100 miles offshore if a State ‘opts-in’ to allow leasing off its coastline by enacting a state law. Promotes Natural Gas Infrastructure: Includes incentives and financing mechanisms for installing natural gas pumps in service stations and homes and requires service stations owned by Big Oil to install at least one "alternative fuel pump"—such as natural gas or E-85. Natural gas costs 40 percent less than gasoline, and is 33 percent cleaner and is produced in North America. Releases oil from the SPR: Temporarily releases nearly 10 percent of the oil from the government’s stockpile (known as the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR)), and replaces it later with heavier, cheaper crude oil. Past releases have brought down prices by up to 33 percent. Requires that 15 percent of America’s energy comes from renewable sources by 2020: A 15 percent Renewable Electricity Standard will reduce global warming emissions and lower energy prices, saving consumers $13-18 billion cumulatively by 2020. Ends taxpayer subsidies to the five largest oil companies: Repeals a giveaway in the 2004 international tax bill (H.R. 4520). Requires oil companies to develop leases they already own or lose the opportunity: Strengthens requirements that oil companies produce oil on federal lands leased for drilling during the initial term of their lease. Promotes energy efficiency in homes and buildings, transportation: Updates energy codes for new buildings to realize a 30 percent improvement in minimum building standards by 2010, and 50 percent by 2020. Creates incentives for lenders to provide lower interest loans to people who build, buy or remodel their homes to improve their energy efficiency. Reduces transit fares for commuter rail and buses and expands service.“This legislation embodies what I heard from families and businesses in August on my western Wisconsin ‘Energy Tour,’ where I saw a number of renewable technologies being developed right in our backyards,” Rep. Kind said. “I heard over and over about the need a comprehensive energy strategy. This bill is that strategy. It has it all: tremendous investments in renewable energy, increased domestic supply, and greater conservation.”The bill will build on the success of last year, when the Democratic Congress passed new fuel efficiency standards for cars in more than 30 years.
09.12.2008	Rep. Kind: This Bill Has it AllWASHINGTON, DC – As the House prepares to act early next week on the Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act, U.S. Rep. Kind today hailed the plan as a way for Democrats and Republicans to come together to forge a path to energy independence.“Throughout August, I took an ‘Energy Tour’ of western Wisconsin, and saw the types of renewable technologies being developed right in our backyards,” Rep. Kind said. “I heard over and over from the families and businesses I visited that we need a comprehensive energy strategy, and this bill represents that strategy. It has it all: tremendous investments in renewable energy, increased domestic supply, and greater conservation. It will move us toward greater energy independence, and I look forward to supporting this historic legislation next week.”Among its provisions, the Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act will:Invest in wind, solar, and natural gas through tax incentives and infrastructure development; Open up additional offshore areas for drilling; Release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve; Require that 15 percent of America’s energy comes from renewable sources by 2020; End subsidies to the five largest oil companies; and Require oil companies to develop leases they already own or lose the opportunity.“Our strategy must be comprehensive and must be bipartisan,” Rep. Kind said. “I am hoping those who believe in a drill-only policy will recognize the wisdom in making these investments now to prevent a situation like this from happening again. It’s time to come together on behalf of the American people.”The bill will build on the success of last year, when the Democratic Congress passed new fuel efficiency standards for cars in more than 30 years.
09.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Kind made the following statement commemorating the seventh anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks:“September 11, 2001 forever changed this country. It changed the way we think about the world, and the way we protect our country. Seven years later, the memory of the falling towers remains a vivid symbol of the brutality that exists in the world.“But it is also a symbol of America’s resilience, and the heroic service of the first responders, police officers, volunteers, and just plain good Samaritans who risked their lives on behalf of those innocent victims.“On this solemn anniversary, we remember the thousands of innocent men, women, and children who were killed in these awful attacks, and the families and friends from whom they were taken. And we recommit ourselves to taking the necessary steps to ensure that such a terrible tragedy never happens again.“While Congress already implemented many of the recommendations of the 9/11 commission to increase security at home, I believe the importance of refocusing our efforts on thwarting the growing power of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan cannot be overstated. It is a sad but very real truth that the terrorist organization that orchestrated these attacks on America is still operational with its same goal in mind.“So on this terrible day in history, we pause to honor the memory of those we lost while resolving to move forward with greater strength than ever. It is this determination that defines America, and will continue to make us great.”
09.02.2008	HUDSON – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind continued his “Energy Tour” of western Wisconsin today with a visit to Energy Concepts, Inc. of Hudson. With our nation searching for solutions to the energy crisis, Rep. Kind has spent the August work period visiting businesses right here in western Wisconsin who are at the forefront of alternative and renewable energy. These businesses are already engaged in moving our country toward energy independence, and the technologies being developed and utilized in Wisconsin could very well act as a model for our energy future as a nation.“Wisconsin companies like Energy Concepts have the type of forward-thinking we need to employ on the national level,” U.S. Rep. Kind said. “The technology already exists to harness the endless amounts of wind and sun, and research shows that our abundant supplies of natural gas could quite possibly be a viable, less expensive, and most importantly domestic fuel that will power our vehicles in the future. We know that the cure for our addiction to oil is not more oil. What we need now is the federal investment to enhance our energy infrastructure and bring these new, clean energies to market.”Energy Concepts, Inc. is a Hudson renewable energy business that uses a combination of professional engineering, certified contracting, and cutting-edge renewable energy technologies to find sustainable energy solutions for homes and businesses. They have completed a number of projects that have brought renewable energy technologies like solar to schools, homes, and businesses in the area.“Renewable sources of energy represent the future for America: wind, solar and geo-thermal are all clean, safe, reliable and made in the USA,” said Craig Tarr, founder of Energy Concepts, Inc. “Ruining our environment, transferring wealth to the Middle East, exposing ourselves to energy shocks and supply disruptions are making us less secure, more dependent and less able to cope with tomorrow's challenges. We possess today the technology, know-how and creativity to choose a different path. Energy Concepts is proud to be working on energy solutions that create good jobs, invest in our communities, and build a future without fossil fuels, carbon emissions or dependence on others.”During Rep. Kind’s Energy Tour he has visited companies utilizing geothermal technologies and biofuels, and learned more about the development of an electric car and different sustainability initiatives in western Wisconsin. He will continue the Energy Tour throughout the fall.
08.05.2008	By: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, Representing Wisconsin’s Third Congressional DistrictNearly fifty years ago, President Kennedy issued a bold challenge to Congress: put a man on the moon within a decade. Many said it could not be done. But eight years later, when Apollo 11 commander Neil Armstrong took that first step for man and mankind, it became the single most powerful image of our strength as a nation to achieve the impossible.In issuing this challenge to Congress, Kennedy said: “I believe we possess all the resources and talents necessary. But…we have never made the national decisions or marshaled the national resources required for such leadership.” Kennedy’s words in 1961 draw a lot of parallels to where we are today – facing an energy crisis that has slowed our economy and threatened our quality of life. Again “we possess all the resources and talents necessary” to make our nation independent of foreign oil, but “we have never made the national decisions or marshaled the national resources to do it.” This has to change.For too long, our energy policy has been anything but forward-looking. A lack of leadership in the White House to enact a comprehensive energy policy and leaders sympathetic to the oil industry have left Americans with $4/gallon gasoline. To add insult to injury, countries like Brazil and Germany are years ahead of us in the quest for independence from oil.The Democratic Congress is working to try and make up for the failed policies of the past. Over the last few weeks, Democrats in Congress have brought forward six measures designed to reduce gas prices – including a bill that would jumpstart domestic drilling in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska, release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and tell big oil companies to explore the leases they already have on federal lands but are not using. Republican opposition has stopped each of these bills.Only a comprehensive approach to this crisis will help bring some relief to families. The impulse right now is to focus only on the immediate future, but we cannot squander this opportunity to make the investments now that will prevent this situation down the road. That’s why I’m calling for an Apollo-scale energy strategy that will bring us to the next level.The technology already exists to harness the wind and sun, and research shows that our abundant supplies of natural gas could quite possibly be a viable, less expensive, and most importantly domestic fuel that will power our vehicles in the future. What we need now is the federal investment to enhance our energy infrastructure and bring these energies to market.We must also recognize that everyone has a role to play in our energy future, and work to reduce our demand for energy through increased conservation on the federal, state, local, and individual level. For example, simple behaviors like driving the speed limit can save you a lot of money; the federal government estimates each 5 mph you drive over 60 mph is like paying an additional $0.30 per gallon for gas! Everyone taking small steps together could realize tremendous savings.Much attention recently has surrounded tapping the resources the United States holds, and I believe increasing our domestic oil supply should be a part of the equation. Oil companies should immediately develop the 68 million acres of federal land for which they already hold leases. I also believe we should allow coastal states to determine if they want to open new salt-water areas to drilling. Through all of this it is important to remember, however, that drilling is not the cure for our addiction to oil. Independent industry estimates indicate that even with additional domestic drilling, consumers would not experience a large reduction in energy costs. The reason is simple math: the United States only holds 2.5 percent of the world’s oil reserves, yet we use 25 percent of oil produced every day.Finally, we must take into account the role the decreased value of the U.S. dollar has on energy prices. Since oil is priced in dollars – when the value of the dollar declines, oil prices rise. The Federal Reserve and Congress must work together to balance our federal budget and reduce our deficit. Together these actions will strengthen our currency and reduce our energy costs.We must again capture President Kennedy’s spirit and respond to this energy crisis with a new Apollo Energy Project – investments that are as monumental as the task. Neil Armstrong’s first steps on the moon showed the world that Americans can achieve anything we put our minds to. Energy is the next great challenge of our time, and now we must roll up our sleeves, work together, and again show the world what we can do.
08.01.2008	Grant Program Will Promote Careers in Closed-Captioning to Meet Vital Need for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing AmericansWashington, DC – Following Senate approval of the Higher Education Act today, Rep. Kind’s provision to help ensure there are enough “realtime” writers to make closed-captioning services widely available for deaf and hearing-impaired residents is finally headed to the President for signature.“This is a great day for individuals who are deaf and hard-of-hearing,” Rep. Kind said. “Ensuring closed captioning is available is not only a fairness issue, it is a safety issue as well. Without closed-captioning, our deaf and hard-of-hearing residents are left without critical information – and could be left unprepared during a national crisis. Despite requiring 100 percent closed captioning by 2006, we are now educating only half the realtime writers we need to get it all done. This program will help change that.”Included in the Higher Education Act was Rep. Kind’s “Training for Realtime Writers Act,” which establishes a competitive grant program to encourage careers in realtime writing and court reporting. Over 30 million Americans are deaf or hard-of-hearing, and approximately 90 percent of them rely on captioning services for news and information. The captioning industry is strained to capacity in its effort to ensure that the round-the-clock news and information is accessible to this community.The Telecommunications Act of 1996 mandated that all television programming be fully captioned by 2006. However, with schools educating only half the captioners needed, thousands of hours of programming are left unavailable to the deaf or hard of hearing. Rep. Kind’s proposal advanced today establishes a competitive grant program which would allow colleges and universities to apply for funding specifically to help encourage more students to pursue a career in realtime writing or court reporting.“Court Reporters are also the guardians of our public record, and play an important role in our government,” Rep. Kind said. “I am pleased that this long-overdue program will increase awareness and interest in careers in court reporting and realtime writing to maintain the integrity of our democracy and make sure every citizen can stay informed.”Rep. Kind’s wife, Tawni, works as an official court reporter for the County Court System in La Crosse.
07.31.2008	Bill Strengthens Landmark Equal Pay Act, Closes Loopholes that Have Allowed Employers to Avoid Responsibility for Discriminatory PayWashington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today backed a comprehensive measure that will help end the discriminatory practice of paying a woman less than a man for performing the same job. The Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1338) will strengthen the landmark Equal Pay Act and close the loopholes that have allowed some employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay. In cases of wage discrimination, this bill requires the employer to prove that pay disparities are not gender-based, and prohibits them from retaliating against employees who share salary information. Rep. Kind made the following statement:“I am proud that the House of Representatives took a big step forward in gender equality today and passed this bill. Forty-five years after President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law, the wage gap between men and women persists, with women earning 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. The instant women enter the workforce they make less than their male equivalent, which can result in up to $2 million in lost income over a lifetime – that is just not right.“The Fair Paycheck Act will help to better enforce the Equal Pay Act, moving us toward full gender equality and helping America’s women break through the financial glass ceiling.”
07.30.2008	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives Tuesday evening unanimously passed the ‘Hubbard Act,’ H.R. 6580, sponsored by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), which guarantees benefits to ‘sole survivor’ veterans who voluntarily discharge from the Armed Forces because their service-member siblings have died in combat.“Not only have these veterans lost their loved ones, they’ve lost the benefits they are owed for honorably serving our country – and that’s wrong,” Rep. Kind said. “Whether or not their full service obligation was completed, through their hardship and commitment to this country, sole survivor veterans have earned their benefits. I am proud that the Hubbard Act will correct this oversight in law.”The bill is named for the Hubbard Family of California, whose experience prompted the legislation through their representative, Devin Nunes (R-CA). In November 2004, 22 year-old Jared Hubbard was killed by a roadside bomb while on patrol in Iraq. Six months later, in honor of their fallen brother, Nathan and Jason Hubbard decided to enlist together. Tragically, in August 2007, a Blackhawk helicopter carrying Nathan Hubbard and 13 other soldiers crashed. Jason Hubbard, who served in the same Army platoon but was in a different helicopter, was immediately redeployed to the United States and offered a “sole survivor” discharge.However, upon being discharged, Jason was asked to repay significant portions of his enlistment bonus, and denied transition healthcare and GI Bill benefits. Currently, there are no standard benefits available to those who voluntarily separate from the Armed Forces under the “sole survivor” policy. This legislation will allow “sole survivors” to qualify for the same benefits provided to those who do so involuntarily but honorably.The cost of the bill is paid for through a provision introduced by Rep. Kind last year that eliminates the cap on Qualified Funeral Trusts, which currently allow people to put aside up to $9,000 to use for their funeral. Given the cost of funerals today and the customized options available, many families have found this to be too small a sum. The cap was also putting a significant administrative burden on funeral directors who manage the trusts.“This bill will allow people to save responsibly for their funerals and alleviate what can be a huge financial burden on their families,” Rep. Kind said.
07.24.2008	Teachers, Parents, Kids Join in Calling for ‘FIT Kids’ LegislationWashington, DC – Following testimony at a House Education and Labor Committee Hearing, fitness guru Richard Simmons joined with U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Zach Wamp (R-TN), Jay Inslee (D-WA), Ric Keller (R-FL), and Mike McIntyre (D-NC), representatives of the American Heart Association, educators, and kids to rally for greater emphasis on physical education in schools.The group called for the passage of the “Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids (FIT Kids) Act” (H.R. 3257), authored by Reps. Kind, Wamp, and Inslee which would combat childhood obesity by amending No Child Left Behind to support quality physical education for all public school children through grade 12 and ensure they receive important health and nutritional information. The bipartisan bill enjoys nearly 70 cosponsors.“It’s a simple concept: healthy minds need healthy bodies,” said U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, who is a co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Putting a greater emphasis on PE and nutrition in schools will not only go a long way to our kids on a healthier path in life, we’ll also see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, and get to the root of the obesity epidemic. It’s time to ‘Leave No Child On Their Behind’ and get this done for our kids.”“The human body was made to move,” said U.S. Rep. Zach Wamp, founder and co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “The more children we can encourage to have a regime of physical activity in their lives and take better care of themselves, the better off we will be as a society. The FIT Kids Act is critical to strengthen physical education, which will improve academic performance and provide students with the physical activity and education to lead healthy lifestyles.”The FIT Kids Act supports making physical education a factor in measuring schools’ progress. Specifically, the bill would provide information to parents and the public by requiring all schools, districts, and states to report on students’ physical activity. This information would include the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard and the percentage of age-appropriate physical education curriculum and certified physical education teachers.“Children and youth spend more time in schools than any other setting except their homes,” Russell R. Pate, Ph.D., Associate Vice President for Health Sciences at the University of South Carolina’s Arnold School of Public Health testified before the House Education and Labor Committee. “To stem the rise in obesity, it is imperative that children and youth become physically active during the school day. Although parents, community agencies and healthcare providers share the responsibility for ensuring that young people are physically active, schools are uniquely positioned to address this critical public health concern. In order for children to obtain adequate amounts of physical activity, schools must be more aggressive in providing these opportunities.”In addition, the bill promotes physical education and activity in school programs, supports professional development for faculty and staff to promote kids’ healthy lifestyles and physical activity, and authorizes a study and pilot program to support effective ways to combat childhood obesity and improve healthy living and physical activity for all children.A student advocate, Robert Kaiser, from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, came to the rally to show his support for greater emphasis on P.E. in schools. Growing up, Robert was overweight and spent too much time playing video games and snacking on junk food. By joining team sports, Robert excelled, lost over thirty pounds, gained strength and a renewed confidence. He wanted to help other teens like him, so he established a teen council and helped to successfully lobby for passage of a PE bill in Florida that mandates 150 minutes per week of P.E. in elementary schools. Now 18 years old, Robert is the only youth appointed member on the Florida Governor’s Council on Physical Fitness.The FIT Kids Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: The American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education, Afterschool Alliance, American Association for Physical Activity and Recreation, American School Health Association, Healthy Schools Campaign, National Association of Health Education Centers, National Association for County and City Health Officials, National Recreation and Park Association, Obesity Action Coalition, Researchers Against Inactivity-related Disorders, SPARK, Shaping America’s Health, Trust for America’s Health, American College of Sports Medicine, and the YMCA.
07.23.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted with a majority in the House to send the American Housing Rescue and Foreclosure Prevention Act, H.R. 3221 to the President. Rep. Kind made the following statement:“This housing package is tremendously important for the future of our economy. It would stabilize the housing market through a combination of tax incentives and strengthened Federal Housing Administration (FHA) assistance to homeowners and also would vastly improve oversight of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.“Frankly, I have not been the most enthusiastic supporter of some proposals I have heard about that would bailout either irresponsible home buyers or irresponsible big businesses. However, H.R. 3221 is not intended to bail people out. The bill was written to ensure that the housing crisis doesn't take down our already struggling economy and, secondly, to prevent this type of crisis from happening again.“The problems in the housing market are hitting us at a difficult time. The rising cost of gasoline and healthcare pose a great challenge for Wisconsin families. That’s why the bill we sent the president today should be the first major step in putting our economy back on track, followed by a comprehensive energy plan and healthcare reform.”
07.17.2008	Outlines His Plan for a More Sustainable & Affordable Energy FutureWashington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to increase domestic production of oil, focusing on the resources in 20 million acres of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A). H.R. 6515, the Drill Responsibly in Leased Lands (DRILL) Act, would have sped up the development of the NPR-A, reinstated a ban on exporting oil from Alaska, and forced oil companies to fully explore the 68 million acres of federal lands on which they already own leases but have not yet developed. Unfortunately, Republicans in the House blocked this legislation from passage.“The National Petroleum Reserve was set aside specifically for this purpose and this bill would have leased, developed, and brought its 10.6 billion barrels of oil to market as soon as possible,” Rep. Kind said. “We are in an energy crisis, and we must take a good look at all of our domestic options to help bring some relief to families. That said, I also believe we should not simply give away the store in an attempt to help the big oil companies control as much land as possible – and as a result a greater share of the market – before President Bush leaves office.”Unlike the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), which is protected by law from drilling, the NPR-A is already designated for expedited oil and gas production and contains significantly more oil resources than ANWR. The bill would have sped up the development of this area by requiring the Bush Administration to approve leases more rapidly and invest in pipeline infrastructure that would allow the oil to be brought to market as soon as possible. Yesterday, a day before this legislation was to come before the House, the Bush Administration announced a major lease sale in the NPR-A this fall.The DRILL Act would also have told the oil companies to “use it or lose it” on the 68 million acres of on- and off-shore leases they currently hold. If they could not certify that they were diligently developing the land, they would have to give up the unused leases so that someone else can develop them.“Increasing domestic production is one part of the energy puzzle,” Rep. Kind said. “It’s also important, however, to recognize that the cure to our addiction to oil is not more oil,” Rep. Kind said. “We cannot drill our way to energy independence. That’s why I’m calling for a comprehensive energy strategy that recognizes the market forces at play. I know the impulse is to focus only on the short term, but we cannot squander this opportunity when there is the political will to make the investments that will prevent this situation in the future.”Increased domestic oil production that would have resulted from the DRILL Act represents just one aspect of Rep. Kind’s plan for a more sustainable and affordable energy future. Rep. Kind is also calling for:A response to this energy crisis that is as monumental as the task, by making an Apollo-like investment in the development of renewable technologies that will bring us to the next level. A significant reduction in our demand for energy through increased energy conservation on the federal, state, local, and individual level. The release of a small amount of oil from the Strategic Oil Reserve (SPR) to immediately expand available supplies, send a strong message to oil speculators, and help reduce the record prices that are helping push the economy toward recession. The return to a strong dollar policy to reduce inflation and bring oil prices down. Actions by the Federal Reserve, as well as bringing our budget into balance and reducing our deficit can strengthen our currency, and reduce prices.“These are all things we should have been doing a long time ago, but for too long, our energy policy has been anything but forward-looking,” Rep. Kind said. “A lack of leadership in the White House to enact a comprehensive energy policy and leaders sympathetic to the oil industry has left Americans with $4 a gallon gasoline. The Democratic Congress is working to try and make up for the failed policies of the past, give families relief in this difficult time, and put us on a path to greater energy independence.”
07.15.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority in the House to successfully override President Bush’s veto of the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers Act (HR 6331). This bill prevents a potentially devastating cut to physicians and makes some important improvements to Medicare benefits for seniors and the disabled.“The President was wrong to veto this bill and put the care of millions of seniors at risk,” Rep. Kind said. “I am proud that Democrats and Republicans in the House stood together today to protect and maintain the health care that seniors in Wisconsin and across the country depend on. I now urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same.”Specifically, the bill will:Prevent a 10.6 percent payment cut for thousands of doctors serving Medicare beneficiaries and instead provide them with a 1.1 percent increase, helping to ensure that seniors can continue to see the doctors they trust; Strengthen and extend important reimbursement provisions for rural communities and providers; Expand preventive services for seniors; Reduces costs of mental health treatment for seniors; and Improve protections and assistance programs for low-income beneficiaries.Rep. Kind is a member of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare.
07.01.2008	First Phase of College Cost Reduction and Access Act Kicks InWashington, DC – – Taking out a loan for college is more affordable starting today, thanks to the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 passed by Congress last year. The single largest increase in college aid since the GI bill, the legislation directs interest rates on subsidized federal Stafford Loans for undergraduates to drop to 6% from 6.8% today, with the goal of cutting the rate in half by 2011.“This rate cut will be a tremendous benefit to college students, who are graduating college with more debt than ever,” Rep. Kind said. “Making college more affordable was a major priority of the new Democratic Congress, and with the economic slowdown we’ve been experiencing, this investment couldn’t have kicked-in at a better time. We must ensure our students continue to seek higher education, which acts as a down payment on not only their future prosperity, but also that of our economy.”This interest rate cut will benefit the 5.5 million students who borrow need-based federal student loans each year, saving the typical four-year student in Wisconsin starting college this fall (with need-based student loan debt) about $2,490 over the life of his or her loan. Rates on subsidized federal Stafford Loans will continue to drop over the next few years: to 5.6% on July 1, 2009, to 4.5% on July 1, 2010, and to 3.4% on July 1, 2011. Federal loans will stay fixed at the same low rate over the life of the loan.In addition to the interest rate cuts, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act will:Increase the purchasing power of the Pell Grant Scholarship by $490 (increasing the maximum award to $4,731) in the 2008-2009 academic year. Ensure a highly qualified teacher in every classroom by providing up-front tuition assistance of $4,000 a year for students who commit to teaching high-need subjects or in high-need public schools. Encourage and reward public service by providing loan forgiveness after 10 years for public servants, including military service members, first responders, firefighters, nurses, public defenders, early childhood educators, librarians, and others.Western Wisconsin boasts five four-year public universities, one four-year private college, and numerous vocational college campuses.
06.26.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, today made the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision declaring for the first time in history that the Constitution protects an individual’s right to have a gun, not simply the right of states to maintain militias:“As co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, I have long been a supporter of individual gun rights for law-abiding citizens. The goal has always been to balance our constitutional rights with public safety. I believe the Court’s historic decision today shows that the DC handgun ban simply went too far. The decision strikes the right balance – it upholds an individual’s undeniable right to own a gun for self-defense or hunting purposes, while providing for reasonable restrictions in the interest of protecting the public – such as prohibiting guns in school zones, or preventing felons or the mentally ill from owning a gun.“I applaud the Court for this commonsense decision that shows that individual gun rights and reasonable restrictions can go hand in hand.”
06.25.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today acted to prevent a tax hike on nearly 56,000 middle class families in western Wisconsin by supporting the passage of the AMT Relief Act of 2008. This bill will prevent 25 million Americans nationwide from being wrongly captured by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), a tax never intended for them. “While I would prefer to find a long-term solution to the Alternative Minimum Tax, this bill will protect middle class families in western Wisconsin, who are already struggling with the rising cost of food and fuel, from a massive tax increase,” said Rep. Kind, member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, which crafted the bill. “I am also pleased that this tax relief is fully paid-for and does not add to the deficit. This is the type of responsible and targeted tax-relief this country needs, and I was proud to support the bill.”The Alternative Minimum Tax was developed in the 1970s as a way to ensure that America’s wealthiest could not take advantage of the tax code in a way that would allow them to avoid paying taxes altogether. However, the AMT has never been indexed for inflation, and without this legislation, it would reach into the pocketbooks of millions of middle-class families it was never intended to hit.H.R. 6275 prevents the AMT from affecting 55,757 additional western Wisconsin families (538,970 in Wisconsin and 25 million nationally) this year, many of whom have no idea they could face a tax increase. The AMT Relief Act of 2008 is paid-for by closing loopholes in the tax code, encouraging tax compliance, and repealing excessive government subsidies given to oil companies.
06.24.2008	Four Bills before the House this Week Designed to Help Lower Gas Prices, Move the Country to Cleaner, Smarter, More Affordable Energy FutureWashington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and the democratically-led House of Representatives continue their action on high energy prices this week with four pieces of legislation that will help transition America to a more affordable energy future. Four measures expected to come before the House in the next few days will address excessive oil speculation and crack down on price gouging, force oil companies to ‘use it or lose it’ on federal drilling permits, and reduce fares for public transit.“Record-high gas prices are bearing down hard on consumers and our economy,” Rep. Kind said. “And while this is not news to me or to the western Wisconsin families who have painfully witnessed the rapid climb in gas prices, it apparently is news to President Bush and Republicans who failed to enact a comprehensive energy strategy and now continue to advocate for policies that will keep us addicted to oil. This week we will act on four bills that together represent a move towards an energy future that is cleaner, smarter, and more affordable for everyone.” The House is expected to act on the following legislation this week:The Energy Price Gouging Prevention Act (H.R. 6346): This bill would give the Federal Trade Commission the authority to investigate and punish companies that artificially inflate the price of energy. Recently New Jersey surveyed more than 1000 gas stations and issued tickets for 350 violations of price gouging-related offenses, including: not accurately measuring fuel, inaccurate fuel-grade ratings, inaccurate total sale price calculation, and multiple price changes in a 24-hour period.“Use It Or Lose It” for Oil Companies Holding Permits and Not Drilling (H.R. 6256): While Republicans continue to advocate additional drilling off of America’s coasts, oil companies are warehousing permits for 68 million acres of undeveloped federal land that could produce as much as 4.8 million barrels of oil per day. Not tapping these resources has kept domestic supply lower and prices higher. This bill would compel the oil industry to start drilling or lose the permits altogether.Addressing Oil Speculation (H.R. 6334): This bill would close the “Enron-like London Loophole” for Petroleum Markets, taking steps to curb excessive speculation in the energy futures markets, which experts have noted is driving up the price of a barrel of oil.Reducing Transit Fares (H.R. 6052): This bill would give grants to mass transit authorities to lower fares for commuters pinched at the pump and expand transit services. This not only will help families with the cost of their commute, it would reward conservation by encouraging more people to take advantage of public transit.
06.24.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement after the House overwhelmingly approved (355-59) the Medicare Improvements for Patients & Providers Act (HR 6331), a bill that will prevent a 10.6 percent cut in Medicare payments to physicians, scheduled for July 1, 2008:“This devastating cut to physicians would put the care of millions of Medicare beneficiaries at risk and jeopardize seniors’ ability to see the doctor that they trust. I was pleased to support this bipartisan bill that not only staves off this cut, but also expands preventive and mental health benefits, improves programs for low-income beneficiaries, and ensures access to healthcare for seniors living in rural areas. “Protecting Medicare for seniors in Wisconsin and across the country is now in the hands of the Senate, and I encourage them to pass this important bill for our seniors.”Rep. Kind is a member of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare.
06.23.2008	By: Congressman Ron KindNo one could have expected the recent flooding that took place in Wisconsin. Homes and businesses, schools, crop fields and churches destroyed; dozens of communities and the spirit of many – devastated.But it is important to remember that in the midst of all the tragedy there were many stories of great strength and inspiration:John Nuzum owns a lumber company in La Farge. At the peak of the flood, he was standing outside in waist-deep water, wondering, “Where in the world do I start? How am I going to salvage this?” Just then, he looked up to see 30 Amish men wading through the water toward him. “We’re here to help,” they said.In a fit of great irony, as the waters continued to rise in Avoca, a house fire broke out. With water all around them, the volunteer firefighters stood in the rising Wisconsin River fighting a fire. They did as volunteer firefighters across Wisconsin did – they risked the destruction of their own homes to answer the call of duty and help their neighbors.The fire chief in Wonewoc said he knows pretty much everyone in the small town of about 900 people. But he didn’t recognize half the people who were helping out the families by sandbagging last week. People from surrounding communities had reached out to them and come to their aid.These stories demonstrate courage and generosity that was displayed by citizens across our great state.In true Wisconsin fashion, the response to this emergency was quick and coordinated – a testament to the hard work of local and state officials, Wisconsin Emergency Management, the State Patrol, as well as non-governmental organizations and private companies who all came together on behalf of flood victims. By the grace of God and because of this wonderful response, we were fortunate that no lives were lost.The Wisconsin National Guard also gave a much needed sense of relief to the communities they visited. We ask a lot of these men and women – especially right now – and these brave individuals are pillars of service to their state and nation.Families helping families, neighbors helping neighbors, complete strangers coming together – this is the Wisconsin way. And we’ll see as the flood waters recede that our work is just beginning. Many are returning to their homes and communities thinking, like Mr. Nuzum, “Where do I start?”On the federal level, we are doing all that we can to make sure funding is available for families, farmers, and businesses to rebuild. During times of natural disaster we are “one nation, indivisible,” so last Thursday, the House passed $2.65 billion that will go to help aid those affected by the Midwest floods. With the help of Governor Doyle we have received federal disaster declarations for 22 counties, and more will follow. And as always, my office will be a resource to those who need counsel on where to look for assistance, and I stand ready to support the needs of the communities in western Wisconsin.Ten months ago, when the floods hit western Wisconsin we thought we had weathered our “hundred-year” storm, only to get hit again – even harder – before we had fully recovered. Mother Nature certainly has not been kind to Wisconsin this past year. But Vince Lombardi once said, “It's not whether you get knocked down, it's whether you get up.” And if there is anything to be said about the people of Wisconsin, it’s that we always get up.I look forward to working together with the communities in western Wisconsin to “get up” and move forward.
06.20.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined a majority in the House of Representatives Thursday in approving an emergency supplemental spending bill that will ensure critical resources are available for flood and tornado-damaged communities in the Midwest. In addition to funding our servicemen and women in Iraq and Afghanistan, the bill provides $2.65 billion for disaster relief in the Midwest and a 13 week extension of Unemployment Insurance for workers in every state who have lost their jobs as a result of the recent economic downturn.“The damage sustained as a result of the flooding in communities across the Midwest is so severe that it transcends what any individual or local government can handle,” Rep. Kind said. “I am pleased that today the House recognized this and came to the aid of families in Wisconsin. Once the flood waters recede, this funding will help clean up our communities and get families back in their homes, businesses back open, and farmers back on the land.”The bill includes $1.297 billion for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Budget, as well as $606 million for the Army Corps of Engineers for various dam and levee projects across the Midwest, $267 million for disaster loans from the Small Business Administration, and $480 million for agriculture assistance for farmers who have been affected.The bill also includes a 13 week extension of unemployment benefits for those workers who are unable to find a job in today’s struggling economy. The number of Americans looking for work is growing – nearly 800,000 more men and women are unemployed than last year.“Extending unemployment benefits is one of the quickest and most cost-effective ways to stimulate the economy and help families who are struggling,” Rep. Kind said. “The economic slowdown has taken a real toll on hard-working men and women in western Wisconsin and across the country, and this extension will provide a temporary helping hand for those people trying to get back on their feet while dealing with the rising cost of just about everything.”
06.18.2008	HEART Act Includes Measure from U.S. Rep. Kind to Greatly Increase Availability of Low-Interest Home Loans for Wisconsin VeteransWashington, D.C. ––President Bush signed into law Tuesday the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007 (HEART Act), H.R. 6081, which included a provision from U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) to expand a program benefiting Wisconsin veterans. The new law allows Wisconsin to issue $100 million annually in federally tax exempt Qualified Veterans Mortgage Bonds (QVMBs), which fund the State Veterans Home Loan Program. This program issues low-interest home loans for Wisconsin veterans, and has helped thousands of veterans achieve home ownership. Without Rep. Kind’s provision, the program was at risk.“Particularly now with the credit crisis and an uncertain economy, the State Veterans Home Loan Program is vital to making the dream of homeownership a reality for Wisconsin veterans,” said Rep. Kind, member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, which crafted the bill. “To date, this program has helped more than 54,000 Wisconsin veterans build or buy a home, and I am so pleased I was able to help expand this benefit to even more veterans and their families.”The home loans provided through the State Veterans Home Loan Program can save veterans thousands of dollars a year in mortgage costs. Currently, 30-year fixed-rate state veterans’ home mortgage loans are available at six percent interest, with only a five percent down payment required and no private mortgage insurance (PMI).The HEART Act increases the maximum amount of QVMB bonds that Wisconsin can issue from $25 to $100 million, ensuring the State Veterans Home Loan Program will remain available to Wisconsin veterans. In May 2006, all available funds for the program had been exhausted, and the program could no longer meet the needs of Wisconsin veterans seeking to purchase or build a home. With initial changes made in the last Congress, the program was reopened in July 2006. Now, under this legislation, the state will be able to offer low-interest home loans to more veterans than ever, with the full $100 million becoming available in 2010 ($60 million in 2008 and $80 million 2009).“Persistence and teamwork have led to this long-anticipated victory,” said Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary John A. Scocos. “Congressman Ron Kind’s provision and the unanimous and longstanding support of every member of Wisconsin’s Congressional delegation will help ensure the stability of Wisconsin’s home loan program and its ability to meet the needs of Wisconsin’s veterans for generations to come.”
06.17.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), joined by the entire Wisconsin delegation, today sent a letter to President Bush urging him to act quickly to approve federal assistance for the remaining Wisconsin counties affected by the recent flooding. Thirty Wisconsin counties were declared in a state of emergency by Governor Doyle on June 8, seven of which – Crawford, Columbia, Milwaukee, Sauk, Racine, Richland, and Vernon – have been made eligible for federal individual assistance. In anticipation of further requests by the Governor for many of the remaining 23 counties, the delegation reiterated to President Bush the severity of the situation and the immediate need for federal assistance to help families, farmers, and businesses rebuild.“Over the past few days I have seen people across western Wisconsin wondering how in the world they’re going to pick up the pieces again after two disastrous floods in less than a year,” Rep. Kind said. “Rebuilding our communities is beyond what any individual, state or local government can do – federal assistance is imperative. As the counties are able to assess the damage, we encourage President Bush to make these funds available to help get people back to some semblance of normalcy as soon as possible.”The letter outlines the concerns of the delegation that the homes and dams which were not fully repaired from the severe flooding in August 2007 will suffer even further damage, as well as the fact that many of the communities hardest-hit are rural and operate on small budgets not equipped for this type of disaster.“Due to the seriousness of the financial and physical damage, we encourage your quick approval for any of Wisconsin’s additional requests for assistance related to this month’s severe storms and flooding,” the delegation wrote.View the delegation’s letter here: https://www.house.gov/kind/pdf/0806_Fema.pdf
06.14.2008	President Signs Disaster Declaration for Five Wisconsin Counties, Paving the Way for Federal Assistance to Flood Victims across the StateWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator R. David Paulison, Governor Jim Doyle, and Small Business Administration Acting Administrator Jovita Carranza in an aerial tour of the flood damage across the state, touching down in Avoca, Reedsburg, and Columbus to meet with people and answer questions.The helicopter tour surveyed damage in southwest Wisconsin, areas surrounding Lake Delton, as well as the Pardeeville dam, and was on the heels of President Bush signing the disaster declaration requested by Governor Doyle for five Wisconsin counties: Columbia, Crawford, Milwaukee, Sauk, and Vernon. This action paves the way for federal assistance not only in these counties, but also the additional flood damaged counties (including Richland County) after they finish the damage assessments and fulfill reporting requirements to FEMA in the coming days.“Not a year after floods devastated southwest Wisconsin last August, we again are seeing families and businesses being forced to pick up the pieces from another flood disaster,” Rep. Kind said. “And while the rain has stopped for now and the flood waters will eventually recede, the cleanup process will be extensive – and expensive. The disaster declaration will go far to free up much needed federal resources, but there will be a role for us all to play – on the federal, state, local, and individual level – to see that families are back in their homes, in their businesses, and on their farms as soon as possible.”Federal assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.“What I have seen over the last week is that in true Wisconsin fashion, the reaction in the face of this emergency was quick and coordinated – a testament to the work of local and state officials, Wisconsin Emergency Management, and non-governmental organizations that came together on behalf of flood victims. I want to thank everyone involved for their help so far, and the help that we’ll continue to need to rebuild our communities.”
06.12.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today praised the House passage of a bill that will provide immediate help to families struggling with unemployment. The Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (H.R. 5749) would provide up to 13 weeks of additional unemployment benefits to workers in every state who have lost their jobs as a result of the recent economic downturn.“The economic slow-down has taken a real toll on hard-working men and women in western Wisconsin and across the country,” Rep. Kind said. “Extending unemployment benefits will provide a temporary helping hand for those people trying to get back on their feet while dealing with the rising cost of just about everything.”Americans across the country are facing rising costs of living—and we have just seen the largest monthly increase in unemployment in 20 years. For the fifth straight month, the economy lost jobs and unemployment rose from 5.0 percent in April to 5.5 percent in May.The legislation will benefit 3.8 million unemployed Americans – providing up to 13 weeks of extended unemployment benefits in every state to workers who have exhausted the 26 weeks of regular unemployment benefits. The legislation is fully paid for through the federal unemployment trust funds, which have more than enough reserves to finance the extended benefits.“Wisconsin has been weathering a lot of storms lately, and this one too will pass – but in the meantime we must do more to strengthen our economy and help those families who are struggling as a result of eight years of President Bush’s failed economic policies,” Rep. Kind said. “Extending unemployment benefits is one of the quickest and most cost effective ways to do that.”The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. President Bush has threatened to veto the measure.
06.10.2008	Washington, D.C. –– A bipartisan group of members, including U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Phil English (R-PA), John Barrow (D-GA), Bill Young (R-FL), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), Tom Allen (D-ME), Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Jason Altmire (D-PA), Christopher Shays (R-CT), Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Jim Ramstad (R-MN) along the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the Service Employees International Union (SEIU), and the National Association of Realtors (NAR), today unveiled the Small Business Heath Options Program (SHOP) Act, H.R. 6210, legislation designed to make health insurance more available and affordable for small businesses and their employees. H.R. 6210 is companion legislation to Senator Durbin’s S. 2795, introduced in early April. “Small businesses in the United States are in a crisis today when it comes to finding affordable health insurance,” Rep. Kind (D-WI) said. “With rising costs pricing small businesses out of the market, it’s no surprise that sixty percent of Americans without health insurance are from families where the head of household is self-employed or works in a small business. If we are going to address the lack of health care coverage in this country, we have to first look at small businesses, and the SHOP Act gets to the heart of that. I am proud of this historic, bipartisan coalition, and look forward to working with more of my colleagues to advance this bill.”“As healthcare costs continue to skyrocket, American entrepreneurs and small businesses are all too often forced to choose between the livelihood of their business and the quality of benefits they provide to their workers,” said Rep. English (R-PA). “By establishing a nationwide health insurance pool for small businesses and the self-employed, we can break down the barriers to affordable health insurance and ensure these job producing employers can provide their workers with stronger healthcare options with more choices at a lower cost. The SHOP Act is an innovative, bipartisan compromise that will go a long way to increasing access to affordable, quality healthcare in our country.”“The SHOP Act will make it so that small businesses won’t have to pay more for health insurance than big businesses have to pay,” said Rep. Barrow (D-GA). “There’s no such thing as a free lunch, but it’s just wrong that little guys get charged a whole lot more for the same lunch than the big guys have to pay. The SHOP Act will fix that.”The SHOP Act would make health insurance less costly, more predictable, and more accessible for the 47.1 million employees of the nation’s 5.8 million small businesses and for the 14.1 million self-employed individuals in America by:Allowing small businesses and the self employed to band together in a statewide or nationwide pool to obtain lower health insurance prices by spreading their risk over a larger number of participants. Keeping prices low by offering a range of private health plans that have to compete for business. Providing small business owners with an annual tax credit of up to $1,000 per employee ($2,000 for family coverage) if they pay for 60% of their employees’ premiums, and a bonus tax credit if they pay for more than 60% of the premiums. Self-employed individuals would get a $1,800 annual tax credit ($3,600 for family coverage) to purchase health insurance. Cutting down on administrative costs for small businesses – today, small businesses spend almost 25 percent of health insurance premiums on administrative costs, compared to 10 percent for large employers. Banning the practice of rating insurance based on health status and claims experience so that premium increases will be more stable and predictable. Providing a website with comparative information about a variety of private health plans. Putting in place accountability measures that rely on the proven oversight of state insurance commissioners to ensure that all health plans meet state requirements for financial solvency, network adequacy, and claims and appeal procedures.“We commend this bipartisan group of Representatives for supporting small business and working to address their number one concern – the ever-increasing cost of healthcare,” said Todd Stottlemyer, president and CEO of the National Federation of Independent Business. “The pooling options and tax credits outlined in this bill directly reflect on NFIB’s Small Business Principles for Healthcare Reform, helping to stabilize costs and incentivizing small businesses. We will continue to work with leaders in Congress to pursue new approaches to addressing the healthcare crisis that continues to burden America’s job creators.”"For many Realtors and those with families, the total cost of health insurance can rival or even exceed their monthly mortgage,” said James L. Helsel, Jr., Treasurer of the National Association of Realtors. “This bill will empower trade associations and other organizations to help guide their self-employed and small business members through the process of finding coverage.""Too many hardworking people in this country are struggling under the strain of health care costs that are rising every year, without any relief – people like Deborah Roberson, a child care worker from Erie, Pennsylvania," said Mary Kay Henry, Executive Vice President of SEIU, the largest union of health care workers. "Deborah lives in fear of getting sick because she can’t afford coverage, even though she works over 80 hours a week taking care of up to 6 children. This bill won’t fix everything wrong with our broken health care system, but it will help Deborah, and millions like her."“More than 27 million small business employees do not have health insurance due to high costs and limited availability,” said Rep. Altmire (D-PA), member of House Small Business Committee. “The SHOP Act is bipartisan legislation that brings together business and labor to make health care more affordable for America’s small businesses and the self-employed. Enacting these reforms is fundamental to achieving lower health insurance costs, more stability in the market, and expanded plan choices for our nation’s small businesses.”"In many states, small business owners and self-employed businessmen have turned to purchasing alliances to secure affordable health insurance for themselves or their employees,” said Rep. Shays (R-CT). “The SHOP Act will help control health care costs by permitting individuals to use their collective bargaining power to win cost concessions from insurance companies.”“It’s great to see such a broad coalition of lawmakers from both sides of the aisle as well as business and labor organizations stand in support of reducing the costs of health care,” said Rep. Carnahan (D-MO). “This bill will allow small businesses to join forces to combat skyrocketing health care costs, which is good for small businesses, individuals and the American economy.”"We cannot fix our economy until we fix health care,” said Rep. Allen (D-ME). “Middle class families and small businesses are the backbone of that economy. Assuring them access to quality affordable health care is vital to our ability to compete in the global economy and assure the future prosperity of all Americans.""Connecticut's small business owners want to provide their employees with health insurance, but escalating costs continue to be a major financial strain," said Rep. Courtney (D-CT). "This bipartisan legislation offers a path for small businesses nationwide to an affordable health insurance option, complete with tax breaks, without sacrificing quality coverage. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this important legislation, and I applaud Congressmen Ron Kind and Phil English for working across the aisle to help provide health care to millions of America's workers who deserve meaningful medical coverage."
06.09.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on the extensive flooding in western Wisconsin:“Mother Nature has certainly not been kind to Wisconsin this year, and the disastrous flooding over the past few days is particularly hard to deal with given that we haven’t fully recovered from the major floods we experienced last August.“My office has been in communication with the local communities affected, and I am pleased and comforted to know that we are seeing an effective and coordinated response by emergency workers across agencies and local governments to make sure people are safe.“While the true extent of the damage still remains unknown, I am joining my colleagues in the Wisconsin delegation today to put FEMA on notice that the area will likely require federal disaster assistance funds. As the disaster assessments are made and the Governor makes a formal request for help, I will do everything I can to ensure that aid is made available to residents and businesses to help them recover.”
06.04.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on the unexpected and indefinite closing of the bridge connecting western Wisconsin to Winona, Minnesota:“After seeing what happened last summer to the 35W bridge in Minneapolis, we can take absolutely no chances with the safety of motorists that use this bridge. While this poses a tremendous inconvenience for western Wisconsin commuters who work in Winona and the surrounding areas, safety must always be our first priority.“My office is currently working with Wisconsin DOT, Minnesota DOT, and the surrounding communities to make sure there is a transportation contingency plan for commuters and emergency vehicles. High gas prices facing western Wisconsin families make this especially important, given the length of the detour. I am also working with Congressional leaders to make sure the necessary resources are available to quickly and safely repair the bridge.“As we find out further details about the inspection and subsequent analysis of the bridge, I will work to make sure this process moves forward in a safe and timely manner.”
06.03.2008	Washington, D.C. –In honor of National Fishing and Boating Week, co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), urged quick action to protect recreational boaters from having to obtain an extraneous permit from the Environmental Protection Agency before heading out on the water. In a letter to his colleagues, Rep. Kind encouraged the House to take up and pass The Clean Boating Act of 2008 (H.R. 5949), legislation that would permanently exempt incidental discharges from recreational boats from permitting under the Clean Water Act.“Recreational boating is not only one of the best parts of summer in Wisconsin, it also generates millions of dollars for the economy and for conservation programs,” said Rep. Kind, who is also a member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “Regulating ballast water is an important part of protecting our waterways, but recreational boats do not pose a threat and should not be subjected to the same arduous permitting process as larger vessels. Imposing these new regulations would damage the recreational boating industry in Wisconsin and put family boating at risk.”Without congressional action, 18 million recreational boats in operation nationwide will be required to get a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit from the U.S. EPA and/or an individual state by September 2008. The requirement emerged from court decision to require Clean Water Act regulation of ballast water, but it extended to all vessel discharges and swept up recreational boasts even though they do not have ballast water. By damaging the recreational boating industry, these new regulations would also jeopardize the state conservation and environmental protection programs funded by $700 million in excise tax revenues on motorboat fuel, import duties on boats, and fishing tackle and products.The Senate companion bill to The Clean Boating Act of 2008, S.2766, recently passed out of the Environment and Public Works Committee unanimously, and action is now needed in the House to move the measure forward.“Let’s make this fix to keep boating simple, safe, and fun for Wisconsin families,” Rep. Kind added.Read Rep. Kind’s letter here: https://www.house.gov/kind/pdf/0806_Boating.pdf
05.30.2008	Kind Requested Funding be Directed to Fort McCoy after Constituent Helped to Break National Story of Squalor Conditions at Ft. Bragg, North CarolinaWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that Fort McCoy will receive $13 million to update its barracks and supporting facilities to improve living conditions on the base. The funding comes on the heels of the release of $248 million the Army recently made available to fix troubled barracks after an examination of the deplorable living conditions at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Following the Army’s announcement of available funds, U.S. Rep. Kind quickly sent a letter Army Secretary Pete Geren, requesting that some of those funds be directed to Fort McCoy.“More than 100,000 citizen soldiers went through Fort McCoy last year, and poor living conditions there negatively impact their safety, health, training, and morale,” Rep. Kind said. “I am pleased funds are being directed to Fort McCoy so that we can provide them with the housing and facilities they rightfully deserve.”Soldiers at Fort McCoy live in two-story wooden barracks that were constructed as temporary housing during World War II and the Korean War, originally intended for only five years of use. Since then, fewer than half of the 276 barracks have been renovated or modernized.The emergency funding was made available by the Army following national news coverage about conditions at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. The story broke after a constituent from Menomonie posted a video online of pictures he took when he visited his son who was serving there.A copy of U.S. Rep. Kind’s letter to Secretary Geren is available at: https://www.house.gov/kind/issues_vets.shtml
05.21.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement after the House voted to override the President’s veto of the Farm Bill:“Today Congress squandered the best opportunity in decades to reform our wasteful, outdated subsidy system.“We need a farm bill, but we need the right kind of farm bill. Let me be clear: this bill is not a reform bill. It is not even the illusion of reform. Continuing to send unlimited subsidies to millionaires is not reform. Creating a new disaster entitlement program is not reform. And setting ourselves up for billions in unaccounted spending is not reform. The President was right to veto it.“As families kick off their summer vacations this weekend facing the highest gas prices ever, skyrocketing food costs, stagnant paychecks and a lagging economy, I urge them to ask their member of Congress how they could justify sending unlimited taxpayer subsidies to agribusinesses and wealthy landowners making up to $2.5 million a year in profit.“It is my hope that the work I and others have done exposing the flaws of this bill changed the debate surrounding farm policy in America. I would like to believe Speaker Pelosi when she said we will not see another farm bill that looks like this. We simply cannot sustain this kind of wasteful and environmentally harmful policy, and I do believe public sentiment will bear that out. What disappoints me is that more of my colleagues did not have the foresight to recognize that today.
05.20.2008	Tax Relief Package for Military Families Quadruples Availability of Home Loans for Wisconsin Veterans, Ensures Military Families Receive Tax RebateWashington, D.C. –– As part of the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007 (HEART Act), H.R. 6081, the House today approved a measure from U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) to expand the amount of Qualified Veterans Mortgage Bonds available to Wisconsin veterans.“Particularly now with the credit crisis our country is experiencing, this program is incredibly important to making the dream of homeownership a reality for Wisconsin veterans,” said Rep. Kind, member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, which constructed the bill. “To date, the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs has helped more than 54,000 Wisconsin veterans build or buy a home through the use of Qualified Veterans’ Mortgage Bonds, and I am so pleased I was able to help expand this program to help even more families.”The proceeds from selling Qualified Veterans’ Mortgage Bonds (QVMB) are used to make low-interest mortgage loans to veterans with benefits that can save thousands of dollars a year in mortgage costs. Only five states are eligible to issue these bonds: Alaska, California, Oregon, Texas, and Wisconsin.The HEART Act increases the maximum amount of QVMB bonds that Wisconsin can issue from $25 to $100 million, ensuring this program will remain available to Wisconsin veterans. Without the increase, the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs would not be able to meet the needs of Wisconsin veterans seeking to purchase or build a home.The HEART Act also delivers extensive tax relief to the men and women of our nation’s armed services, and makes a critical change in the law that will ensure thousands of active duty military families qualify for economic stimulus payments.“The sacrifices of our military servicemen and women are not limited to their tours in Iraq and Afghanistan, they also face economic hardships here at home,” Rep. Kind said. “The HEART Act will help alleviate some of that by giving military families much needed and much deserved tax relief. This is a simple but significant way we can thank our troops for their service to our country.”In addition to the QVMB provisions, the HEART Act also includes allowing combat pay for troops to count as earned income for the Earned Income Tax Credit and making permanent the ability of active duty reservists to make penalty-free withdrawals from their retirement plans, among other things.For more information on the bill, go to: https://waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/110/milbill.pdf
05.19.2008	Washington, D.C. –Following the success of his first two Telephone Town Halls, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that he will hold a third LIVE discussion for residents of the Third Congressional District on Tuesday, May 20, 2008 from 6:40-7:40 p.m. CDT.The Telephone Town Hall Meeting uses new technology that will allow Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once, providing an opportunity for constituents to hear directly from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them, and communicate their questions and concerns directly to Rep. Kind from their own home. With each Telephone Town Hall participation increases; the last one garnered as many as 6,000 participants and a great deal of positive feedback from constituents.“While I continue to enjoy meeting with residents face-to-face at my conventional town hall meetings across the district, they can sometimes be difficult for people to attend, given work, family, or health reasons,” Rep. Kind said. “This way, people can participate from their own home. I am looking forward to again engaging constituents from across the district, and discussing these important issues that affect their everyday lives.”New teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Tuesday (approximately 6:40 p.m. CDT), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the Telephone Town Hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.Constituents may also dial-into the Telephone Town Hall themselves by calling toll-free 1-866-447-5149, and entering the code 13433.Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Anne Lupardus at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the Telephone Town Hall.
05.14.2008	Washington, D.C. –Four leading farm bill reform advocates in the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Paul Ryan (R-WI) today criticized the farm bill conference report as a missed opportunity for the serious reform that would make our farm programs more equitable and fiscally responsible. Despite being touted as significant reform, the bill fails to address the most unjustifiable, market and trade distorting aspects of U.S. farm policies.“This bill was well designed to avoid every opportunity for serious reform of wasteful, outdated subsidy programs while actually piling on additional layers of unnecessary spending,” Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) said. “Commodity prices are through the roof and yet we are still funneling billions of dollars to farm households making up to $2.5 million a year in profit. I challenge any Member of Congress to justify these outrageous payments to their constituents who are right now struggling with the highest food and fuel costs ever. My colleagues and the President should reject these sham reforms, and demand a farm bill that helps only the family farmers who need it, and is worth the confidence of the American taxpayer.”“This farm bill is bad policy on several fronts,” said Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ). “Not only is it market-distorting and fiscally irresponsible, but it complicates our current trade obligations and will continue sending taxpayer money to wealthy farmers and landowners. I know that many of my Republican colleagues experienced buyer’s remorse after supporting the last farm bill in 2002. Given that the current bill is no better, I hope that they won’t feel compelled to vote for it.”Farm Bill Conference Report: Where’s the Reform?The conference report continues to subsidize millionaires. Much has been made of the means test being placed on subsidies. The reality is that by combining on- and off-farm income, households making up to $2.5 million are still eligible for all subsidies. Furthermore, even the very high limit for on-farm income applies only to Direct Payments. According to USDA, these limits could only affect 0.2 percent of producers (4,600 out of two million). Cuts to Direct Payments represent a drop in the bucket. At a time when farmers are receiving record prices for their commodity crops, the agreement cuts $300 million from Direct Payments, out of $50 billion, a cut of only 0.6 percent. Increases in target prices and loan rates will cost billions in the future. Defenders of the farm safety net like to point out that prices always fall from historic highs, and they will again. So while these increases may not mean much in the current market environment, they will be here to stay and will cost billions when prices do fall, money that is not being considered in current budget calculations. A permanent disaster program is a costly, unnecessary, and harmful additional layer of subsidies. The federal government already bankrolls crop insurance to help farmers when a crop fails, counter-cyclical payments when prices drop, marketing loans to allow farmers to finance a crop and guarantee a price, and Direct Payments for no reason at all. These existing programs are more than adequate for legitimate farming operations. Additional layers of subsidization foster inefficiency and incentivize production on marginal lands that should not support large-scale agriculture. Finally, $2-3 billion is not nearly as much as historical ad hoc payments, so Congress will inevitably be called on to provide billions more in future years.“At a time when Americans are struggling to pay their mortgage, food and energy bills, we should help people who need it and not lavish resources on people who don’t,” said Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR). “With record high farm prices, we should not give money to couples earning up to $1.5 million in farm income and $1 million in non-farm income when most farmers still get little or no help. We should keep some of the farm bill’s modest reforms and reject the wasteful investments from the past. The Agriculture Committee has taken this bill as far as it can. Now it is time for the full House to take control. If the president vetoes the bill, we must finish the job by getting more to farmers who need help, meeting our environmental obligations and doing more for the hungry.”"The conferees have squandered yet another opportunity for meaningful reform,” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). “The farm bill should be focused on providing a safety net for family farmers in times of need, yet Congress has instead opted to subsidize the wealthy at a time when food prices are surging. Our agricultural policies are in desperate need of commonsense reform and this bill fails to deliver.”
05.13.2008	Washington, D.C. –Both the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate will act today to temporarily halt new purchases for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), an action Rep. Kind started calling on the Bush Administration to take in January. In multiple letters and conversations, Kind urged the President and congressional leadership to look to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve as a way to ease demand for oil and save taxpayer money. With no action from the Bush Administration, today Congress will vote on legislation that will suspend purchases through 2008.“While I wish the Bush Administration would have done this months ago when I brought it to their attention, I am pleased Congress is taking action to fight gas prices that are now at or near $4.00 a gallon,” Rep. Kind said. “Record-high gas prices hurt everyone except the oil companies, and farmers, manufacturers, and middle-class families in Wisconsin are being squeezed from all sides. This action could lower gas prices by as much as 25 cents per gallon of gasoline – an economic stimulus that benefits everyone.”The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the United States' emergency oil stockpile, created in 1975 after oil supplies were cut off during the 1973-74 oil embargo. The SPR is currently 97 percent full. Despite record-high oil prices, the Bush Administration has continued to fill the SPR, diverting 70,000 gallons of oil from the market every day, pushing up costs.Rep. Kind is an original cosponsor on the House bill being voted on today (H.R. 6022), which suspends new purchases of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for the rest of this year, unless the price falls below $75 a barrel. According to a noted petroleum economist, this action could drive down oil prices by as much as $6 per barrel, or $.25 per gallon of gas. The SPR has been tapped or suspended before by President Bush, President Clinton, and the first President Bush. In 2000, after such action, the price of oil dropped down by one-third – from $30 to $20 per barrel.“With the SPR nearly full, it makes no sense to continue to fill it with high priced oil – driving up costs and wasting taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Kind said. “The Congressional Budget Office estimates that for every $10 reduction in the price of oil, $50 billion is injected into the market – so even a small reduction in the price could do a lot to stimulate our economy, and help Wisconsin families who are struggling.”
05.08.2008	La Crosse Winner Will Join Artists from Across Nation Displaying Work at CapitolWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) congratulates all participants in the 12th annual Third Congressional District Art Contest, including first place winner Timothy Koehne from La Crosse Central High School, whose acrylic painting “Let it Be” will go on display in the U.S. Capitol later this summer along with the works of other student artists from across the country. Rep. Kind announced the winners, who were chosen by a panel of local community members, on Sunday, May 4th at the Mabel Tainter Center in Menomonie, where the artwork of all 59 participants was displayed during the week preceding the announcement.“Every year, the Congressional Art Contest provides an opportunity to recognize the unique talent of our high school art students and to celebrate the arts through the eyes of our young people,” said Rep. Kind who has sponsored the contest yearly with his wife, Tawni. “Tawni and I congratulate Timothy on his accomplishments, as well as many other students from throughout western Wisconsin who participated in the art contest this year.”Members of congress have been holding Congressional Art Contests since 1982. The winning entries from each participating Member’s district-wide contests are displayed in the U.S. Capitol. The exhibit represents the combined efforts of the Members who conducted their local contests and the students who participated. The winners of the 2008 Third Congressional District Art Contest are:First Place- Timothy Koehne of La Crosse, Central High School, Acrylic on Canvas entitled “Let it Be” to be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. Second Place- Milivoje Momcilovic of La Crosse, Logan High School, acrylic on canvas entitled “Mojo Baba Stana” to be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office. Third Place-Ashley Davis of La Crosse, Logan High School, acrylic on canvas entitled “Split Face,” to be displayed in Rep. Kind’s district office. Fourth Place-Jay Moua of La Crosse, Logan High School, scratchboard entitled “Nue Hands of Chee,” to be displayed in Rep. Kind’s district office.Honorable Mentions:Lizzy Kroker of La Crosse, Logan High School, acrylic untitled piece. Libby Brandl of La Farge, La Farge High School, acrylic entitled “Portrait of Joe.” Melissa Martin of La Crosse, Central High School, prismacolor pencil entitled “Coffee.” Katherine Huebner of La Crosse, Aquinas High School, photography entitled “SODO.” Katee Heisel of La Farge, La Farge High School, charcoal entitled “Picture of Baby.” Griffin Angell of La Crosse, Central High School, photography, “Envy.” Dakota Clermont of La Farge, La Farge High School, charcoal, “Curious Cat.” Kyle Patrick Kutzke of La Crosse, Central High School, chalk pastel, “Migrant Mother.” Maggie Kotnour of La Crosse, Aquinas High School, photography, “Vivere.” Jill Everson of La Farge, La Farge High School, acrylic, “Out of the Window.”Photos of Rep. Kind with participating art students and the winning art pieces are available at: https://www.house.gov/kind/services_artcomp.shtml.
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. –In an effort to help the faltering economy, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted with a majority in Congress to pass the most extensive Congressional response to the housing crisis to date. The American Housing and Foreclosure Prevention Act, H.R. 3221, and the Neighborhood Stabilization Act, H.R. 5818, will help families facing foreclosure keep their homes, help other families avoid foreclosures in the future, and rescue communities caught in the foreclosure process.“The housing crisis is a national problem that has helped catapult the country into an ever worsening economic condition,” Rep. Kind said. “With interest rates rising and property values decreasing, many homeowners do not have the resources available to meet their financial commitments. In addition, the skyrocketing prices of gas, food, and college tuition are making it difficult for many hardworking families to make their housing payments.”For a majority of Americans, their homes represent their most valuable investment. By modernizing the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), facilitating loan modifications, and establishing a $15 billion loan and grant program for the purchase and rehabilitation of owner-vacated and foreclosed homes, Congress is working to help individuals save their homes and assist others in receiving or maintaining mortgages and loans.“The economy as a whole has been significantly affected by the housing crisis, which has depressed consumer spending and made loans and credit harder and more expensive to get. Manufacturers, construction firms, and other businesses that depend on the strength of the housing industry have all been impacted,” Rep. Kind said. “The measures passed by the House today will begin to repair the economy and provide Americans with the tools to prevent problems in the future.”
05.08.2008	Washington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement about today’s farm bill agreement:“Although many details are still missing regarding the latest farm bill agreement, it appears to leave a lot to be desired. Despite all of the lofty rhetoric coming out of the conference committee, this is not reform. It is not even the illusion of reform. Proponents tout reform of the income limit for farm programs, but the truth is that couples earning up to $1.5 million will still be eligible for direct payments, and there appears to be no income limit for other subsidy programs. Furthermore, there are no caps placed on the amount of subsidies a wealthy producer can receive, even while the agreement clamps down on the amount of assistance to farmers through conservation programs that have great tangible benefits to our communities. And while an additional $4 billion for conservation is a great achievement, it is well below the amounts passed by the House and Senate last year. What of the so-called “permanent disaster” program? No details have been released, but I assume there are still billions of dollars set aside for this additional layer of subsidies.”“I could go on and on about how this is a bad bill for taxpayers, small family farmers, and the environment. I look forward to seeing the details of the bill in the coming days and to seeing what the President has to say about what looks like a very poor Congressional effort at reform.”
05.01.2008	Washington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted today with a majority of House members to continue providing all Americans the opportunity to go to college by passing the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act, H.R. 5715.“The recent instability in financial markets has hurt more than just homeowners. Many western Wisconsin families are finding it difficult to secure student loans for their college-bound children,” Rep. Kind said. “As we weather the recent economic downturn, we must continue to ensure students are able to make this important investment in their future. Congress took a step in the right direction by passing this legislation.”While the number of students with the academic knowledge, talent, and desire to attend college has substantially increased over time, the necessary financial assistance has not kept pace. At no additional cost to taxpayers, this legislation increases federal student loan limits for undergraduate and graduate students; gives parent borrowers more time to pay off their federal Parent Loans for Undergraduate Students (PLUS); and encourages federal financial institutions’ participation in ensuring continued student loan access.“As a representative of 12 institutions of higher education, and a father of two school-aged boys, I recognize the importance of increased access to post-secondary education and ensuring that everyone who wishes to attend college can afford to do so,” Rep. Kind said. “The Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans will provide all Americans regardless of culture or socioeconomic status greater opportunities to further their education.”
05.01.2008	Washington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today offered a motion on the House floor directing the farm bill negotiators to maintain the highest levels of funding for critical conservation programs. The legislators who are crafting the final farm bill compromise have the option of taking the provisions of the bill passed in the House, those passed in the Senate, or making up new ones. Kind’s motion instructs them to adopt the House funding levels, which are higher than the Senate levels and those currently under discussion.“With increased farming intensity on existing lands and pressure to bring even more land into production to meet biofuels mandates and help relieve rising food prices, these programs are more important now than ever,” Rep. Kind said. “The House passed a strong conservation title to the farm bill last year, and my motion instructs the House and Senate conferees to stick to the highest level possible for conservation rather than letting those funds give way to other programs.”The farm bill passed by the House last July allocated an increase of $5.7 billion in conservation spending over the next 10 years, but the conference committee made up of lawmakers from the House and Senate to negotiate a final farm bill has released discussion drafts containing only a $4 billion increase. Kind’s motion, if passed, would be a non-binding instruction that the conference committee accept higher levels of funding as passed by the House for certain conservation programs.Specifically, the motion supports:$4.1 billion for the Environmental Quality Incentive Program; $412 million for the Grassland Reserve Program; $2.3 billion for the Wetland Reserve Program; and, a Senate provision known as “sod saver,” which prohibits subsidized crop insurance and disaster payments to farms that break new ground on virgin prairie land.“Two out of three farmers who request assistance to protect our water, soil, and wildlife resources are turned away,” Rep. Kind said. “We need to maximize the investment in environmental programs to meet the unmet need in rural America. These programs help our farmers meet their responsibility to be good stewards of the land and provide important benefits to the community at large. These are the programs that should be at the top of the priority list.”The motion was debated on the House floor today, and a vote will occur on the motion on Monday.
04.28.2008	Washington, D.C. –– In a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) called on the Department of Defense and U.S. Army to promptly improve unhealthy and unsafe living conditions at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina. “In the aftermath of the problems at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, the U.S. Army needs to act quickly to end another national embarrassment,” Rep. Kind wrote. “The condition of these barracks is simply unacceptable.”Ft. Bragg is home to the XVIII Airborne Corps and 82nd Airborne Division and has barracks dating back to the Korean War. Some of the barracks are infested with mold, have dilapidated plumbing, and are in general disrepair.Rep. Kind was alerted to the barracks’ deplorable conditions by Ed Frawley of Menomonie, WI. Ed’s son, Sgt. Jeff Frawley, recently returned to the United States after a 15 month deployment in Afghanistan. After visiting his son and taking pictures of the barracks, Ed posted a video of the conditions on the Internet. The video can be viewed at https://leerburg.com/barracks.htm.“Ed’s son and other returning soldiers deserve better,” said Rep. Kind. “Without Ed’s diligence and hard work, this unfortunate situation would have continued.”
04.28.2008	Washington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) joined Mayo Clinic today in the unveiling of their new healthcare reform proposal. Mayo Clinic presented a comprehensive healthcare plan that seeks to provide universal healthcare, better co-ordination and value of care, and reform payment systems so they are better equipped to pay for outcomes.“Healthcare is one of the most complex and important issues facing our nation today and I am pleased to see Mayo Clinic take the initiative on such a wide-ranging healthcare reform project. Not only do we have 47 million Americans living without health insurance, given today’s precarious economy, millions more are living with the fear of losing their coverage,” Rep. Kind said. “It is important for our nation to tackle this issue, and we are fortunate to have leading healthcare experts so close to home. Our providers here in western Wisconsin will be critical in developing a solution to the healthcare crisis. As a member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, I will work hard to implement the successes of western Wisconsin’s healthcare system on the federal level.”Mayo Clinic conducted the research for their healthcare reform for nearly two years, speaking to 1,500 physicians, patients, insurers, business people and others involved and interested in the healthcare field. From this research, Mayo Clinic identified four focus areas: individual ownership of health insurance, coordinated care, increased value of care, and payment reform. The plan also includes steps for the private and public sector to best implement healthcare reform.For more information about the Mayo Clinic Health Policy recommendations, please go to www.mayoclinic.org/healthpolicycenter.
04.22.2008	Washington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on Earth Day: “The 38th celebration of Earth Day is as necessary today as it was when first held at the urging of Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson. The great environmental activism awakened on that day is still very much alive, as we face the greatest environmental challenges of our time. Senator Nelson envisioned a world in which ordinary people would contribute their energy, knowledge, and goodwill to safeguard the natural world that sustains us. This collective action and dedication is necessary if we hope to reverse the course of global climate change, in addition to our other environmental challenges.“Today, we can reflect on the encouraging steps that ordinary citizens across our state and around the country are taking to reduce their carbon footprint – from changing the light bulbs they use to investing in hybrid cars or skipping an unnecessary trip to the convenience store. Even those individuals normally opposed to environmental legislation seem to finally have recognized its importance. Notably, President Bush has begun to recognize that the time has come to lower our carbon dioxide emissions, signing the most significant cuts in these standards in 32 years. Thanks to congressionally mandated action, the Department of Transportation announced today its changes to car and truck fuel standards. These new standards alone will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 521 million tons nationwide, saving drivers a total of 55 billion gallons of fuel. It is this combination of big policy initiatives and everyday choices that Senator Nelson hoped this country would achieve in his creation of Earth Day, and they are what will make the biggest difference.“I have done my best to carry on Senator Nelson’s legacy of environmental stewardship in Congress through my work on the Natural Resources Committee, my efforts to reform the farm bill, my support of the Safe Climate Act and numerous other conservation bills. I will continue to make environmental stewardship a primary focus of my time in Congress, on Earth Day and beyond.”
04.21.2008	U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service Pilot Project to Establish Outdoor Classroom at GenoaWashington, D.C. –– As Earth Week kicks off across Wisconsin and America, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Genoa National Fish Hatchery will receive more than $95,000 to enhance their visitor facilities at the Genoa, Wisconsin site with a new, outdoor educational classroom. The funds come to Wisconsin as part of the National Fish Hatchery System Volunteer Act of 2006, which U.S. Rep. Kind was instrumental in moving to the President’s desk.“The improvements to the visitor’s center will help more kids and families explore this fascinating site,” said Rep. Kind, co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and founder of the National Wildlife Refuge Caucus. “In Congress I’ve advocated for promoting visitor services at our National Wildlife Refuges and National Fish Hatcheries not only because its good for the local economies, but also because it is incredibly important to help kids connect early with nature so we can foster the next generation of conservationists. We live in a technology-driven world, and my hope is that with these new funds, Genoa can use the new classroom to get kids outside and excited about nature and the need to protect it for future generations.”The national U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) pilot project, one of two nationwide, provides $35,000 to Genoa to match the Region’s allocation of $60,000, and will demonstrate how to enhance outdoor classroom projects that connect kids with nature in their local communities. The Visitor Facility Enhancement (VFE) target small construction projects designed to improve and enhance visitor facilities within both the National Wildlife Refuge System and the National Fish Hatchery System.“The staff and I at Genoa are very excited to be able to work with local educators and other interested Service groups to develop this outdoor classroom and learning center. We hope that through this effort we will help develop the next generation of conservation stewards in our area, and in turn help pass along a conservation legacy that our children can respect and admire,” said Doug Aloisi, Project Leader at Genoa National Fish Hatchery.Current plans for the VFE funds are to develop a boardwalk with interpretive education sites in a working wetland located at the site. The “outdoor classroom” will be used for tours and for school groups and others to learn about the importance of wetland hydrology and pollution control, as well as of wetlands as habitat and nursery areas to fish and wildlife. The area will also be made available to the public as a point of access to a wildlife area for unstructured exploration and play. A handicap accessible fishing dock is also planned to create recreational fishing opportunities for persons with disabilities.
04.15.2008	‘This is a Bipartisan Problem Requiring a Bipartisan Solution,’ says KindWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), joined by a bipartisan group of his colleagues, including Jim Cooper (D-TN), Melissa Bean (D-IL), Mark Udall (D-CO), Tim Walz (D-MN), Jim Ramstad (R-MN), and Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD), today announced the introduction of a bill establishing an independent, bipartisan commission to recommend reforms to the earmarking process, the Bipartisan Earmark Reform Commission Act of 2008 (H.R. 5755).“Abuse of the earmarking system has eroded the public’s trust in the process and overshadowed the worthy projects earmarks often fund” said Rep. Kind, who has imposed a one-year moratorium on his own earmark requests while he works to reform the process. “From a ‘Bridge to Nowhere’ to a rainforest in Iowa – any member of Congress, whether they are an advocate or foe of earmarks, needs to be accountable to the taxpayers for the staggering growth in earmark spending. While Democrats have made progress on this issue, further reform is necessary, and this commission can help us restore integrity to the earmarking process. I urge my colleagues to support this initiative.”Current congressional and executive branch earmarking practices have no safeguards to protect taxpayer dollars against waste. The bipartisan commission on earmark reform established by H.R. 5755 is intended to formally define an earmark and examine the earmarking process to develop and recommend reforms that would increase transparency, equity, and fiscal responsibility in the process. The independent commission’s 12 members would be appointed by the Speaker, the House Minority Leader, the Senate Majority and Minority Leaders, and the President. They would be required to report back to Congress within six months.Specifically, the commission would examine:Disparities in funding across communities and regions; The practice of securing earmarks for for-profit companies; The impact of earmarks on the federal budget; and The usefulness and sufficiency of current disclosure requirements.“The earmark process, with all its abuses, has given Congress a black eye and the American people another reason not to trust their government,” said Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN), a senior member of the House Budget Committee. “This election year, Congress needs to stop and reevaluate the way we appropriate money for projects around the country. We shouldn’t wait for another indictment to be handed down before demonstrating that we take stewardship of taxpayer money seriously.” Rep. Cooper has also imposed a one-year moratorium on his earmark requests, in hopes that the process will be reformed during that time.The amount spent on congressional earmarks hit an all-time high in FY 2006, with $29 billion spent on nearly 10,000 projects. When Democrats took the majority, a one-year moratorium on earmarks was imposed for FY 2007, and in FY2008 earmarks were cut by more than half. Democrats also passed transparency requirements that link members to projects and ensure the member has no financial interest earmarks they request. However, the $14.8 billion in FY 2008 congressional earmarking was still distributed with little scrutiny and attention to the merits of the project – instead putting a premium on a Member of Congress’s seniority or authority.“Individual Members of Congress are uniquely attuned to the needs of their constituents, and they should have some say in how the federal government is going to support projects in their district,” said Rep. Bean. “But we must restore some measure of fiscal responsibility – and sanity – to how projects are funded. This bipartisan commission would account for the true cost of unnecessary earmarks and move us toward the transparency the system needs.”Equally troubling to the Congressional earmarking process is the Executive earmarking process. Executive agencies have the ability to unilaterally award billions in government contracts, and in 2006, $200 billion went to contractors without a formal bidding process. And while President Bush calls on Congress to reign in earmark spending, rarely even acknowledging his administration’s ability to earmark, he had no problem allocating $24 million to the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program in 2008.“This is clearly a bipartisan problem perpetuated by both the Congress and the White House, and it requires a bipartisan solution,” Rep. Kind said. “This type of "ATM politics" is threatening good government.”
04.11.2008	Washington, D.C. –– All three candidates for President have endorsed a strategy to bring down gas prices by temporarily halting new purchases for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), a proposal Rep. Kind started calling on the Bush Administration to do in January. In letters to President Bush on January 22, Kind called on President Bush to take action on record oil prices (now over $100 per barrel) by looking to the Reserve to ease demand for oil and save taxpayer money. Senators Obama and Clinton are cosponsors of a Senate bill that would halt new purchases for the SPR, and Senator John McCain endorsed the proposal while speaking yesterday in New York (McCain Seeks Smaller Oil Reserve, Wall Street Journal, 4/11/08, https://online.wsj.com/article/SB120786930632206383.html).“Record-high oil prices are hurting farmers, manufacturers, and middle-class families in Wisconsin and across the country,” Rep. Kind said. “I am pleased that all three Presidential candidates have endorsed this proposal and I again urge the President to act on this issue. It is something that he can do right now to provide real relief to American families and businesses as temporarily halting new purchases for the SPR could lower gas prices by as much as 25 cents per gallon of gasoline.”The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the United States' emergency oil stockpile, created in 1975 after oil supplies were cut off during the 1973-74 oil embargo. The SPR is currently 95 percent full. Despite record-high oil prices, the Bush Administration has continued to fill the SPR, diverting 70,000 gallons of oil from the market every day, pushing up costs. Temporarily ceasing new purchases of crude oil for the SPR could drive down oil prices by as much as $6 per barrel, or $.25 per gallon of gas, according to a noted petroleum economist. Furthermore, selling the oil on the market instead of putting it in the SPR would raise $6 million a day for the federal government, or more than $1 billion over the next six months.The Administration has taken this action in the past to relieve supply issues and lower gas prices, most recently in 2005 after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disrupted refineries in the Gulf Coast. Following the hurricanes, oil prices surged to nearly $70 a barrel, not even close to the $110+ a barrel seen recently.“With the SPR 95 percent full, it makes no sense to continue to fill it with high priced oil – driving up costs and wasting taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Kind said. “This commonsense action could do a lot to stimulate our economy; the Congressional Budget Office estimates that for every $10 reduction in the price of oil, $50 billion is injected into the market. I hope the Presidential candidates will continue to talk about this issue throughout the campaign, and will join me in urging President Bush to take this action immediately.”
04.09.2008	Washington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Kind made the following statement in response to General David Petraeus’s testimony before the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees today:“During my numerous meetings with General Petraeus, I always found him to be a man of great conviction and high integrity. I respect his assessment of the situation in Iraq. However, despite his recommendation to maintain troop levels in the country after the draw-down ends in July, I know that he and our other military officers there are the first to admit that the problems in Iraq cannot be resolved militarily, but only through political reconciliation.“We need a new direction in our strategy with a clear signal to the Iraqi government that we will not be there indefinitely. That’s why I support a responsible redeployment of our troops out of Iraq. The men and women of our military have performed valiantly and done all that we have asked of them and more. We must now push Iraqi security forces to the forefront and drive political progress with a clear plan and timeline to begin drawing down our troops and redeploying them out of country.“We are now more than five years into this war. We’ve spent nearly a trillion dollars we don’t have and have lost more than 4,000 soldiers. Our economy is struggling. American citizens are rightly questioning why we have spent more than $2 billion a week engaging a country that is not willing to match our troops’ commitment and achieve political reconciliation.“Furthermore, I think it is more important now than ever for our military forces to focus on the real threat to the United States – al Qaeda’s growing strength in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Despite the Bush Administration’s assertions, the majority of the terrorists causing hurt and destruction in Iraq are actually disgruntled Sunni insurgents who seek to re-gain political power in the country, and are al Qaeda in name only. These groups are very different from those al Qaeda forces who are building power in Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a much greater threat to this country.“The time is long overdue to change our strategy in Iraq. This war has already cost the country more than it has to give. Our military is stretched dangerously thin, jeopardizing our ability to adequately protect our homeland. This situation is unsustainable as it stands, and I will continue to press for a new direction – one that demands accountability from the Iraqi government as well as our own.”
04.08.2008	In Recognition of Public Health Week, Legislation Promotes Early Detection of Disease, Needs of Children and SeniorsWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today joined a majority in the House to advance a number of public health programs in recognition of National Public Health Week (April 7-April 13). The purpose of National Public Health Week is to reflect on the importance of quality public health programs – from ensuring kids are vaccinated, to early detection of disease, to ensuring access to critical treatment programs. “Public Health Week is an excellent time to examine new health issues facing the public – such as global climate change – as well as ways we can improve existing programs to better protect our citizens,” Rep. Kind said. “By emphasizing the early detection of disease and advancing the care of some of our most vulnerable – children and seniors – the bills we acted on today continue our ongoing efforts to improve public health as a whole.”Included in the group of bills passed today was the Cytology Proficiency Improvement Act, which Rep. Kind cosponsored. This bill will increase the early detection of cervical cancer by requiring pathologists who read tests for the disease to complete continuing medical education on the latest research and best practices. The program is modeled after a similar quality standards program for reading mammograms. The American Cancer Society predicted 11,150 women in the U.S. would be diagnosed with cervical cancer last year and 3,670 women would die from the disease. Ensuring all cervical cancer tests are read correctly is one way to cut down on the number of deaths each year.Other public health bills Rep. Kind voted to pass today include:Early Hearing Detection & Intervention Act: Extends and expands to young children the Early Hearing Detection and Intervention (EHDI) program, which identifies and helps newborns and infants with hearing loss. EHDI screens for hearing loss 93 percent of babies within one month of birth.Emergency Medical Services for Children Act: Extends and makes improvements in the Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) program, which is designed to improve emergency trauma and critical care for children. While there are more than 30 million child and teen visits annually to emergency rooms, many services are still designed for adults. Since the EMSC program was created 20 years ago, major improvements in emergency care for children have been realized and injury-related deaths have dropped by 40 percent.Keeping Seniors Safe from Falls Act: Launches a comprehensive preventive care program to reduce the number and severity of falls by the elderly, including risk analysis, education, and research. Nationally, 42 percent of all nursing home admissions take place as a direct result of one or more injurious geriatric falls.Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act: Helps schools deal with food allergies among their student population by developing a policy for schools on appropriate management and emergency plans for children with food allergies and anaphylaxis. The policy would be provided to schools within one year after enactment, and schools could voluntarily implement the policy.Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act: Authorizes funding to educate parents and health care providers about newborn health screening, improve follow-up care for infants with an illness detected through newborn screening, and help states expand and improve their newborn screening programs.Traumatic Brain Injury Act: Establishes state grants through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to help patients with traumatic brain injury get treatment. TBI is the leading cause of death and disability among young Americans, and TBI survivors are returning home from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan. The legislation also directs the CDC to create a reporting system to track the condition, and requires research to improve treatment.
04.03.2008	Members to Farm Bill Negotiators: Adopt Commonsense Reforms to Fund Vital Conservation Programs and Other PrioritiesWashington, D.C. ––Four leading farm bill reform advocates in the U.S. House of Representatives and two leading national conservation groups today formally objected to a proposal last week by farm bill negotiators to eliminate nearly $1 billion from conservation programs to provide more money for a permanent agricultural disaster assistance fund. U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Paul Ryan (R-WI), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today joined with the Environmental Working Group and Environmental Defense Fund to highlight the importance of conservation programs and encourage the adoption of commonsense reforms that would achieve enough savings to preserve conservation initiatives and other farm bill priorities.“Conservation programs should not suffer because of misplaced spending priorities,” said Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI). “Increasing conservation funding is vital to address a tremendous unmet need and help more farmers be better stewards of the land. Negotiators should not put these programs on the chopping block in favor of additional subsidies for millionaire farmers who don’t need them. All the negotiators need to do is take a look at some commonsense reforms to the commodity programs to find more than enough savings to fund a vital increase in conservation, as well as other priorities.”"It is troubling to learn that negotiators may add billions of dollars to a duplicative disaster entitlement program, which would come at the expense of proven conservation programs,” said Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI). “Absent meaningful reform with our agricultural policies, we will fail in our responsibility to be good stewards of the environment and good stewards of taxpayer dollars."Farmers in only a few states would monopolize a costly new permanent disaster relief fund, which would shortchange voluntary conservation programs that help farmers in every state protect environmentally fragile areas and provide cleaner water and air. Right now, two out of three farmers and ranchers are denied conservation assistance because of inadequate funding.“To cut conservation programs to help fund a permanent disaster program is a one-two punch to the environment,” said Sara Hopper, an attorney for Environmental Defense Fund, who was staff member of the Senate Agriculture Committee during the 2002 farm bill. “It will encourage intensive crop production on environmentally fragile lands, and there will be less money to deal with the consequences.” "There is a risk of irreparable environmental damage and the loss of a generation of conservation accomplishments without the minimum increase of $5 billion in new funds over baseline," said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group.The great unmet need for conservation dollars – coupled with the current market and economic conditions – make it particularly unreasonable to take money from conservation programs to pay for additional handouts to select producers. The prices of government-subsidized crops are at unprecedented levels and net farm income has reached a record high.Reps. Kind, Ryan, Blumenauer and Flake also highlighted common sense reforms they have identified that would allow conferees to develop a fiscally responsible farm bill that still makes needed investments in conservation, while providing a safety net to family farms, when needed. Adopting some – or all – of the reforms would ensure that vital investments in conservation can be made.“Congress has had many chances to reform the farm bill, but up until now it has missed the mark,” Rep. Blumenauer (D-OR) said. “Our priorities should be conservation, nutrition, and rural development, not increased subsidies that do very little for the vast majority of farmers, with 60 percent of them getting nothing at all.”Several of the possible reforms highlighted by the members included: reducing direct payments to farmers given record-high commodity prices, means testing farm subsidies to prevent farm households making more than $250,000 from receiving subsidies, capping farm subsidy payments at $250,000 per farmer, and reforming crop insurance to prevent windfalls to insurance agents and companies.
03.19.2008	Washington, D.C. ––Today, March 19, 2008, marks the five-year anniversary of President Bush deploying American soldiers to Iraq. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement:“When the Bush Administration first began this war, they predicted it would last less than six months and cost less than $60 billion dollars. Five years, nearly a trillion dollars, and almost 4,000 precious American lives later – this misguided and poorly managed war has cost America more than it has to give.“Our men and women in uniform represent the best America has to offer. They have done all that we’ve asked of them and more, and performed valiantly in difficult and dangerous situations. Unfortunately, it has now come to the point where we are asking them to solve a political situation that can only be solved by the Iraqis themselves.“That is why I remain committed to a responsible redeployment of our troops from Iraq, and will continue to demand accountability from the Iraqi government and our own. It is long past time that the Iraqis take full responsibility for their country, and make the tough political compromises vital to achieving peace in Iraq.“I am concerned, however, that the Bush Administration and many members of Congress fail to recognize that no amount of American lives, money, or time can ever guarantee that Iraqis will achieve the necessary political reconciliation. That is why I believe we must push Iraqi security forces to the forefront with a clear plan and timeline to begin drawing down our troops and redeploying them out of country. The United States cannot continue babysitting that nation forever.“But above all, on this solemn anniversary, my thoughts and prayers are with our brave troops and their families – whether they are serving overseas, here at home, or with us in spirit. They have, and will remain, my primary focus as we fight here in Congress to craft a new direction in Iraq.”
03.13.2008	Washington, D.C. ––Today, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) voted with a majority of the House to pass a budget that works to restore fiscal responsibility and directs tax relief at middle-class families.“As families across western Wisconsin know, a budget is about priorities,” Rep. Kind said. “Families generally adhere to some simple principles: don’t spend more than you take in, and make smart investments that will help you down the road. Congress must start following their lead; reverse years of record deficits and make key investments to grow our economy. I’m proud that this budget does both.”The budget brings the country back to surplus starting in 2012, and strictly adheres to the pay-as-you-go budgeting rules. It also makes a significant investment in education, health care, and vital infrastructure, and provides tax relief to middle class families through directed tax cuts.The budget plan rejects the harmful cuts in the President’s budget, including reductions in Medicare, education, energy assistance for low income families, and the COPS program – instead investing in these vital programs. It also paves the way for an expansion of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) that funds BadgerCare in Wisconsin, which would allow millions more kids to be covered.“The budget not only gets our fiscal house back in order, it will help families do so as well – with more money in their pockets, more affordable health insurance for their kids, and a break on college costs,” Rep. Kind said.For a detailed summary of the budget, visit: https://budget.house.gov/analyses/09summary_dem_budget_rev.pdf
03.11.2008	Calls for Review of Earmarking Process Through the Creation of a Bipartisan Commission on Earmark ReformWashington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that he will not seek any funding through the earmarking process for fiscal year 2009 and called for review and reform of the earmarking process through a bipartisan commission.“Over twelve years of Republican rule, earmarks exploded in number and amount, and abuse of the system eroded the public’s trust in the process,” Rep. Kind said. “Wasteful spending has overshadowed the worthy causes that earmarks often fund. While Democrats made progress on transparency requirements last year – reforms that Republicans overwhelmingly opposed – further reform is necessary to fix this broken system.”The amount spent on congressional earmarks hit an all-time high in FY 2006, with $29 billion spent on nearly 10,000 projects. When Democrats took the majority, a one-year moratorium on earmarks was imposed for FY 2007, and in FY2008 earmarks were cut by more than half. Democrats also passed transparency requirements that link members to projects and ensure the member has no financial interest earmarks they request. However, the congressional earmarking process still puts a premium on a member of congress’s seniority or authority – not just the merits of each project. Also, Members of Congress are still allowed to direct funds to projects named after themselves, a direct conflict of interest.Equally troubling is the executive earmarking process. Executive agencies have the ability to unilaterally award billions in government contracts, and in 2006, $200 billion went to contractors without a formal bidding process. And while President Bush calls on Congress to reign in earmark spending, rarely even acknowledging his administration’s ability to earmark, he had no problem allocating $24 million to the Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian Program in 2008.“This is a bipartisan problem perpetuated by both the Congress and the White House, and it requires a bipartisan solution,” Rep. Kind said. “That is why I am imposing a one-year moratorium on my own earmark requests and am calling for the creation of a bipartisan commission to examine the process. We must go further to reform earmarks, to require greater transparency, equity, and fiscal responsibility.”The bipartisan commission would report back to Congress within six months and would develop a definition of exactly what constitutes an “earmark,” so as to avoid already authorized programs being wrongly treated as earmarks. The commission, in assessing both legislative and executive earmarking, would also examine whether there are currently any disparities in the members, states, or regions receiving earmarks, and the impacts of earmarking on the overall budget.
03.10.2008	Washington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) will travel with a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) to the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida this evening to witness the launch of the Space Shuttle Endeavour, scheduled to occur at 2:28 a.m. EDT Tuesday morning. The shuttle is scheduled to be in orbit for 16 days while it delivers part of Japan’s contribution to a multi-national space laboratory being built at the International Space Station.“We have certainly come a long way since the first shuttle launch, and to many Americans, it may now seem routine,” Rep. Kind said. “However, each launch truly is a brand new testament to the scientific and technological advancement of our country, and still poses great risk to the astronauts who lead the missions. I look forward to learning more about the space shuttle program and viewing this spectacular sight in person.”The Members of Congress attending the launch will receive a briefing from NASA on the STS-123 Mission, as well as the space shuttle program. The STS-123 Mission is the 122nd space shuttle flight overall, and the 21st flight for Endeavour. It is the second of six flights planned for 2008.More information on the STS-123 mission can be found at www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/shuttle/main/index.html
03.06.2008	Rep. and Mrs. Kind Encourage High School Artists to ParticipateWashington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced the start of the 12th Annual Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” for high school students. Organized by Congressman Kind’s wife, Tawni Kind, this event brings together high school artists from throughout western Wisconsin to recognize the tremendous talent of our high school art students.“This is one of my favorite events of the year, because western Wisconsin is filled with tremendously talented young people,” said Tawni Kind. “Ron and I look forward to once again to enjoying all the wonderful artwork, and recognizing those with exceptional artistic talent.”The first place entry will hang for a year in the U.S. Capitol along with the works of other student artists from across the country, the second place entry will be displayed in Rep. Kind’s Washington, D.C. office, and the two honorable mention choices will be displayed in Kind’s La Crosse and Eau Claire offices.The deadline for submitting entries is 5:00 p.m. on Friday, April 18, 2008. Art teachers throughout Wisconsin’s 3rd Congressional District have been notified about the competition and the rules for artwork submission. The public is invited to receive more information about “An Artistic Discovery,” as well as take a virtual tour of some artwork from last year's art exhibit by visiting Congressman Kind's website at www.house.gov/kind.All entries will be displayed at the Mabel Tainter Center for the Arts in Menomonie from April 29—May 4, 2008. A reception will be held the final day of the exhibit, Sunday, May 4, from 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. to recognize the participants. All student participants, their families and teachers are invited.Anyone interested in entering the competition, or having questions about the contest guidelines, is encouraged to call Rep. Kind’s aide, Danice Stanton, toll free at 1-888-442-8040.
03.05.2008	Washington, D.C. ––U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI) late yesterday voted with a majority of the House to advance H.R. 1424, The Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act, which would end discrimination of patients seeking coverage for treatment of mental health conditions, estimated to affect more than 57 million Americans. Rep. Kind, a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, was a cosponsor and long-time supporter of this legislation.“Issues of mental health are as important as those of physical health and should be treated that way,” Rep. Kind said. “Right now, however, many health care plans do not offer equal coverage for mental health conditions as they do physical conditions. Proactive treatment of these disorders is not only the right thing to do – it will save money in the long run. Mental health conditions are the leading cause of disability in this country; for instance depression has serious effects on workers’ productivity and can complicate already harmful illnesses, increasing health care costs.”While the bill does not mandate mental health benefits, it requires that insurers or group health plans who do provide them to have the same financial and treatment requirements as for medical benefits. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this should not have a significant impact, if any, on the cost of insurance premiums.Despite the high number of Americans suffering from some sort of mental health disorder (57 million ) or chemical addiction (26 million), early prevention and intervention have not been made a priority and are decades behind other medical conditions. As a result, it is estimated that untreated mental illness cost U.S. businesses and the American economy over $150 billion last year, and untreated addiction cost our economy more than $400 billion.“Mental health conditions affect roughly 20 percent of the U.S. population, but only one in three receives any treatment,” Rep. Kind said. “Denying someone coverage for a mental health disorder can have tragic consequences. This legislation will ensure that patients are given the coverage they deserve and help reduce the stigma so that people will seek help in the first place. The bill has been a long-time coming, and I urge the House and Senate leadership to reconcile differences quickly so it can go to the President.”
03.04.2008	Urges President Bush to Temporarily Halt Purchases to the Reserve, Lowering Gas Prices by As Much As 25 Cents a GallonWashington, D.C. –– Oil prices hit an all-time high on Monday at nearly $104 a barrel, surpassing the inflation-adjusted record of the 1980s, its effects spreading to gas stations, grocery stores, manufacturers, and middle-class homes in Wisconsin and across the country. In the face of this historic price, Rep. Kind again pointed to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for relief, and called on President Bush to temporarily halt new purchases to the reserve to lower gas prices and save taxpayer dollars.“As we have been seeing for months now, high oil prices trickle down into every aspect of our economy,” Rep. Kind said. “As the economy teeters on the verge of a recession, now is the time for President Bush to stop purchasing oil for the SPR to help American consumers and businesses. Doing so could lower gas prices by as much as $10 a barrel, or $.25 cents a gallon of gasoline. That’s real relief.”The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the United States' emergency oil stockpile, created in 1975 after oil supplies were cut off during the 1973-74 oil embargo. The SPR is currently 95 percent full. Despite record-high oil prices, the Bush Administration has continued to fill the SPR, diverting 70,000 gallons oil from the market every day, pushing up costs. Temporarily ceasing new purchases of crude oil for the SPR could drive down oil prices by as much as $6 per barrel, or $.25 per gallon of gas, according to a noted petroleum economist. Furthermore, selling the oil on the market instead of putting it in the SPR would raise $6 million a day for the federal government, or more than $1 billion over the next six months.The Administration has taken this action in the past to relieve supply issues and lower gas prices, most recently in 2005 after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disrupted refineries in the Gulf Coast. Following the hurricanes, oil prices surged to nearly $70 a barrel, not even close to the $104 a barrel seen yesterday.“With the reserve 95 percent full, it makes no sense to continue to fill it with high priced oil – driving up costs and wasting taxpayer dollars,” Rep. Kind said. “This commonsense action could do a lot to stimulate our economy as the Congressional Budget Office estimates that for every $10 reduction in the price of oil, $50 billion is injected into the economy. I urge President Bush to take this action immediately.”Rep. Kind recently joined his colleagues Rep. Rahm Emmanuel (D-IL) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) in sending a letter to the President urging him to take this action. The full text of the letter is attached.
02.25.2008	Funding Boost from Congress Allows Project to Go Forward Ahead of ScheduleWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that the Veterans Administration (VA) Medical Center in Tomah will receive $4.425 million from the 2008 VA Appropriations bill to complete a renovation of their facility. The funding was made possible by the boost given to the Veterans Administration by the Democratic Congress, who this year provided the largest increase to the VA in its 77-year history with an allocation of $3.8 billion above what President Bush had requested.“We made an historic commitment to our veterans this year so we could take everything up a level – from the care we provide to returning veterans, to our medical facilities, disability claims processing, and much more,” Rep. Kind said. “I am so pleased that the veterans being cared for at Tomah will directly benefit from the additional funding through this project, and I am committed to continuing to ensure that the resources are available to provide our veterans with the quality care they deserve and have earned.”When the Democratic Congress appropriated an additional $3.8 billion above the President’s request, the Veterans Administration was able to essentially double their budget for “minor construction projects,” advancing many that were not slated to go forward until a later date. During years of under-funding, hundreds of improvement projects at VA facilities across the country became backlogged, and the additional funding this year will move many of them forward.At the Tomah VA, the additional $4.425 million will be used to renovate the second floor to accommodate 26 beds for their psychiatric care facility. The decision to fund this project was made through a competitive process called Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES).More information on the projects being funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs, go to: https://www.va.gov/budget/summary/2009/index.htm
02.14.2008	Will Work with Ways & Means Colleagues to Prevent New Taxes for Farm ProgramsWashington, D.C. –– U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement in response to Chairman Peterson’s proposed Farm Bill Conference Report:“I welcome the efforts of Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Goodlatte to negotiate a Farm Bill that can be signed into law. The draft they have come up with is a good start, but there is still much work to be done to make this farm bill work for family farmers and for taxpayers.“I fear we will squander this momentous opportunity for reform. Farmers are doing better than they ever have, and producers no longer need to be tied to our outdated system of subsidies. In fact, the consolidation of wealth among America’s largest producers has illustrated the great inequities of our broken support system.“While the proposal rolls back some of the most trade-distorting policies and makes the first small steps toward taking subsidies away from millionaires, it must go further. A substantive means test and real payment limits are still needed. The proposal’s budget gimmick that phases out direct payments in the ninth year, only to see them reappear again in the tenth, is a sham. This proposal continues to defend the most indefensible aspect of farm subsidies – guaranteed handouts to wealthy producers regardless of golden market conditions.“Greater reform is also necessary to protect vital priorities in other areas of the bill, particularly nutrition programs that under this proposal would shortchange programs for the needy by $3 billion. Critical conservation programs would also receive $1 billion less over five years. This is unjustifiable when it would continue to dole out more than $5 billion a year in direct payments to mostly wealthy farmers.“The bottom line is: this proposal is still $6 billion over budget. If they want a farm bill this year, additional reforms must be made to meet the President’s criteria for approval. I plan to work with my colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee to push for a resolution that does not involve any new tax offsets for farm programs. Raising taxes to fund needless giveaways to farmers is wasteful. There is plenty of room in the farm bill baseline to pay for all of our priorities, and in this economic climate, allowing the Agriculture Committee to unnecessarily raise taxes is not in the best interest of anyone, especially taxpayers.”
02.13.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, today announced new legislation to encourage more small businesses to offer retirement savings plans to their employees. The Small Businesses Add Value for Employees (SAVE) Act of 2008 (H.R. 5160) would increase incentives for small businesses to start SIMPLE IRA and 401(k) retirement plans, providing more flexibility and reducing administrative burdens. The bill is cosponsored by Rep. Kenny Hulshof (R-MO), also a member of the Ways and Means Committee.“A comfortable retirement is something everyone seeks to achieve – whether they work for a big corporation or a small business,” Rep. Kind said. “But the majority of small businesses don’t offer any retirement savings plans to employees because it is often a complicated, costly, and a somewhat risky endeavor. This bill will actually incentivize small businesses to offer savings plans, allowing workers to accumulate retirement savings and helping small businesses attract and retain employees.”Small business owners often wear multiple hats and simply do not have enough time and resources to devote to administering a complicated financial product. According to a survey of small businesses conducted by Harris Interactive, only 14 percent of small businesses offer a 401(k) plan and 63 percent do not offer any form of retirement benefits at all.SIMPLE IRA and 401(k) plans were created in 1996 to address the need for an easy way to administer savings plans for small businesses. Since then, many small businesses have taken advantage of SIMPLE plans, with nearly two million workers now covered by one. However, the rules governing SIMPLE plans need updating to ensure they continue to be attractive for small business owners, and there is great potential for growth in retirement plan coverage using SIMPLEs as the foundation. H.R. 5160 would modify the successful features of the SIMPLE plan by:Offering newly participating employers a tax credit for 50 percent of the start-up costs, and a one-time $25 tax credit for every employee who is enrolled in the savings program. Creating voluntary automatic IRAs for employers. Removing the higher penalty on early SIMPLE IRA distributions. Raising the annual contribution limit for SIMPLE plans to the same level as 401(k) plans. Allowing SIMPLE plan participants to rollover their retirement assets.Sherry Wuebben, co-owner of St. Joseph Equipment of La Crosse is an example of a small business owner who could have benefited from the SAVE Act while her business was growing."Small businesses know two things about establishing retirement plans for their workers,” Wuebben said. “First, we understand how important retirement benefits are to attracting and retaining quality employees. Second, small businesses know how expensive and challenging it can be to set up and administer a retirement savings plan. Small businesses will applaud Congressman Kind's legislation because it offers both incentives and simplicity – two features that are essential to helping small business owners and their employees access new tools for retirement savings.""The SAVE Act provides simplified and voluntary options for small-business owners to offer retirement savings plans,” said Dan Danner, Executive Vice President of Federal Public Policy for the National Federation of Independent Businesses. “We appreciate Congressman Kind's efforts to reduce complexity while helping small businesses and their employees plan and save for their retirement.”“The SIMPLE IRA can be even more effective in getting small employers to maintain retirement plans for their employees if the reforms that Rep. Kind is proposing are enacted into law,” said Liz Varley with the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. “Through a voluntary incentive, the burdens on small businesses will be minimized and more people will be able to take advantage of tax-deferred retirement plans. We look forward to working with Rep. Kind to advance this important legislation to help small employers and their employees retire comfortably.”A fact sheet on the specific provisions included in the bill is attached.
02.07.2008	Again Urges Bush to Also Take Action to Lower Gas PricesWashington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House to send an economic stimulus package to President Bush for signature. He made the following statement:“I am pleased and Democrats and Republicans came together to act quickly on this economic stimulus package. The Senate was able to make some good additions, and now we are able to put money back in the pockets of low-and middle income families, seniors, and disabled veterans.“The tax rebate and business measures included in this bill will help put a shot in the arm of our lagging economy. While no stimulus measure can make up for seven years of misguided economic policies – this is a good start, providing immediate help to those who need it the most.“But there is another action that the President can take immediately to stimulate the economy: temporarily suspend purchases of crude oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The Reserve is already 95 percent full, but the Administration continues to fill it with high priced oil – taking it off the market and driving up costs for consumers.“Record-high gas prices are putting a huge strain on families, and this action could by some accounts bring down the price of gas by 25 cents a gallon. That is an economic stimulus that will benefit everyone – and I urge President Bush to take this action immediately.”Rep. Kind sent President Bush a letter requesting he temporarily halt purchases to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve on January 22, 2008. The full text of the letter is attached.
02.04.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement on President Bush’s FY 2009 budget proposal:“As expected, President Bush’s 2009 budget simply continues seven years of misguided fiscal policies: record deficit spending, tax cuts targeted at the wrong people, and spending cuts in the wrong programs. In his last year in office, the President is attempting to mask our real fiscal challenges by failing to take into account the full costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and permanently fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax. Actual numbers show this budget will balloon our national debt by more than $400 billion – leaving a legacy of debt for our kids and grandkids.“The President’s budget would decimate Medicare – cutting it by $556 billion over ten years. While I agree that we must address waste and duplicative spending, as well as the long-term challenges we face with entitlement programs, blindly cutting Medicare would devastate our seniors.“The President’s budget also does nothing to get our economy back on track, choosing instead to exacerbate our current situation by cutting the job-creating programs we need and making permanent the misdirected tax cuts that got us here in the first place.“This budget hurts Wisconsin, and it hurts America. Congressional Democrats remain committed to steering this country in a new direction and will put forward a budget that will strengthen our economy, help families make ends meet, and restore fiscal responsibility.”SNAPSHOT: President Bush’s Budget Hurts Wisconsin:As Wisconsin faces its hardest winter in years, the President’s budget would cut $11.2 million from the state’s energy assistance fund (LIHEAP) that helps keep the heat on for low-income families. While we seek to prepare our kids to compete with students from around the world, President Bush’s budget cuts more than $2 million from Wisconsin’s grant program to attract highly qualified teachers to our schools. Even as we see dismal job growth, the President’s budget cuts programs that make our workforce more flexible to the market and create jobs. His budget cuts career and vocational training for Wisconsin by nearly $22 million and cuts $2.6 million for Wisconsin’s Manufacturing Extension Partnership (WMEP), which helps create good manufacturing jobs. It is estimated that this cut to WMEP would result in a subsequent loss of more than $54 million in private investment and 1,300 jobs. At the same time as this economic downturn puts states in a difficult financial position, President Bush’s budget cuts more than $13 million in assistance to Wisconsin firefighters, eliminates the COPS program that puts more officers on the streets, cuts more than $12 million in federal highway funding for Wisconsin, and cuts more than $4 million to ensure safe drinking water for Wisconsin residents.
01.28.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement in reaction to President Bush’s last State of the Union address this evening:“President Bush delivered his last State of the Union as this nation faces great challenges, and seeks strong leadership to address them. But despite our weakened economy, a continuing war, energy insecurity, and the many other things putting stress on families across the country – tonight the President offered no new viable ideas for taking these issues on.“Building a sustainable economy and a strong nation takes more than just rebate checks. It takes comprehensive energy policy, affordable health care and college costs, and fiscal responsibility. No stimulus package can fix seven years of misguided economic policies, but Congressional Democrats are prepared to work in a bipartisan way to get this economy moving again – starting with the stimulus package we will pass tomorrow, and continuing throughout the coming year.“I was also surprised by the President’s belated call for earmark reform. Under Republican control, earmarks nearly doubled to $29 billion, and Congressional Republicans overwhelmingly opposed new earmark transparency rules instituted by Democrats earlier this year. I agree that Congressional earmarking is in desperate need of reform, and I hope this conversation will result in a bipartisan, bicameral solution to shine more light on Congressional and Executive earmarks.”
01.24.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on the economic stimulus compromise that is set to move forward in the House:“Today, in the face of difficult economic times, Democrats and Republicans came together to launch an economic stimulus package that will put money back in taxpayers’ pockets and get our economy back on track. The urgency of enacting this package into law couldn’t be greater, as we want to build on the steps the Federal Reserve has already taken.“From the beginning, our goal was to provide immediate, targeted relief to taxpayers, and to do it in a fiscally responsible way that won’t exacerbate our long-term fiscal challenges. This compromise does just that – with a one-time tax credit for low- and middle-income families. This is where the relief must be targeted – to those who need it most and are most likely to spend it quickly.“I am also pleased that the package will include measures to help businesses through this economic downturn, with bonus depreciation and expanded small business expensing to free up capital to reinvest in their business, and retain or hire employees.“I am disappointed, however, that Republicans refused to extend unemployment benefits for those that are out of work in this kind of economy. These are the families that really struggle in a recession, as opportunities plummet but costs continue to rise. I hope this is something we can revisit, because it makes sense for our workers and our economy.“Clearly, this package is meant as a one-time shot in the arm to our economy, and will not solve all of our long-term fiscal challenges. I remain committed to finding ways to ease the burden on middle-class families, such as lowering gas prices, making college more affordable, and addressing the rising cost of health care.”
01.23.2008	Technology Vital in Rep. Kind’s Outreach; New Website Named One of Best in CongressWashington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s first-ever LIVE Telephone Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday attracted nearly 3,500 participants from across the district. The call was part of a year-long effort to expand the use of technology to reach out to constituents in the Third Congressional District, including a new E-Newsletter and expanded website, which recently was ranked in the top 10 percent of Congressional websites (40 out of 438) by Congressional Management Foundation (CMF).“I am pleased that so many people took some time to participate in the Telephone Town Hall last night,” Rep. Kind said. “With the sub-zero temperatures outside and busy work and family lives – I know that making it out to a conventional Town Hall can be difficult. I will continue to hold face-to-face Town Hall Meetings across western Wisconsin, but this also proved a great way to reach out to my constituents in a way that’s convenient for them.”New teleconferencing technology allowed Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving nearly 3,500 Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call, a random selection of households in the 3rd CD received a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate. Constituents then had the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by a question and answer session. Questions for Rep. Kind during the hour-long call surrounded the issues of the war in Iraq, health care, energy policy, the economy, agriculture reform, special interest groups, toy safety, and gas prices.Rep. Kind was also able to use the technology to take several live polls of the audience. According to 61 percent of the call participants, any tax rebate given as part of the economic stimulus package should include people who are just paying FICA taxes, compared to 39 percent who indicated a tax rebate should only be targeted only to those paying federal income taxes. Listeners also weighed in on Brett Favre’s future, with 71 percent indicating the Green Bay quarterback should return next season, compared with 29 percent saying he should retire.“The call was a lot of fun, and something I will do again,” Rep. Kind said. “In the meantime, I encourage people in western Wisconsin to contact me by phone, in person, or through my website. It is through the continued feedback from my constituents that I best represent this district.”Individuals who were unable to participate in the call may contact Rep. Kind by calling toll free, 1-888-442-8040, writing to Rep. Kind at 205 Fifth Avenue, South, Suite 400, La Crosse, Wisconsin 54601, or sending an email through the website www.house.gov/kind.
01.22.2008	Reserve 95% Full; Doing So Would Free Up More Oil, Drive Down Gas PricesWashington, D.C. –In a letter to President Bush, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), today urged the Administration to temporarily cease new shipments of crude oil to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), arguing that doing so would ease the burden on consumers and stimulate the economy by helping to drive down gas prices. Despite record-high crude oil prices and an economy on the verge of recession, the Department of Energy (DOE) is continuing to receive shipments of high priced oil for storage in the SPR, taking oil off the market for consumers and costing the federal government more than one billion dollars.“I am asking the President to take this immediate step to put more money in people’s pockets,” Rep. Kind said. “This Strategic Petroleum Reserve is already nearly 95 percent full, yet the President continues to fill it with high-priced oil, taking it off the market and helping large oil companies reap record profits by keeping prices high for consumers. By temporarily stopping the shipment of oil to the reserve, the President could help reduce oil costs, lower gasoline prices, and save taxpayer dollars. More money in consumers’ pockets is what the economy needs right now, not more record profits for large oil companies.”The Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the United States' emergency oil stockpile, created in 1975 after oil supplies were cut off during the 1973-74 oil embargo. The SPR is currently about 95 percent full (nearly 700 million barrels out of a total capacity of 727 million). Despite record-high oil prices, the Bush Administration has continued to fill the SPR, diverting oil out of the market. Last November, the DOE announced that it would accept 12.3 million barrels of oil for the SPR in the first six months of this year, at a rate of about 70,000 barrels per day. This is federally owned oil produced in the Gulf of Mexico and would be taken as royalty-in-kind shipments. Temporarily ceasing these deposits, as Kind recommends, could not only help drive down gas prices, but also generate billions of dollars by selling the oil rather than diverting it to the SPR.“While the escalating cost of crude oil has made headlines for the past several years, never before have we seen as dire a situation for consumers as the one we are experiencing now,” Rep. Kind wrote in the letter. “Even the price spikes following Hurricane Katrina did not come close to the $100 per barrel oil we saw last month, yet the Bush Administration wisely responded to that crisis by temporarily suspending purchases for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. That action was successful in providing the type of immediate, targeted relief we need now.”The last time the shipment of oil to the SPR was temporarily suspended was following Hurricane Katrina, which contributed to a drop of about $5 in the price of crude oil following the spike caused by the storm. Prior to that, in late 2000, President Clinton authorized a “swap” of oil in which 30 million barrels were released from the SPR to alleviate the threat of a home heating oil crisis due to low inventories. After the release, according to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), spot prices fell from about $37 to $31 per barrel.Click here to see the full text of the letter.
01.18.2008	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today announced that he will hold his first-ever LIVE Telephone Town Hall Meeting on Tuesday, January 22, 2008 from 6:15-7:15 p.m. CST. The Telephone Town Hall Meeting uses new technology that will allow Rep. Kind to reach thousands of Third Congressional District constituents at once, providing an opportunity for constituents to hear directly from Rep. Kind on the issues affecting them, and communicate their questions and concerns directly to Rep. Kind from their own home.“Between work, school, family, and everything else, I understand it can be difficult for people to attend a conventional town hall meeting,” Rep. Kind said. “This way, people can participate from their own home. I am looking forward to this opportunity to address constituents from across the district, and hear directly from them about the issues affecting their lives.”New teleconferencing technology allows Rep. Kind to set up a large-scale conference call involving potentially thousands of Third Congressional District constituents. At the start of the call on Tuesday (approximately 6:15 p.m.), a random selection of households in the 3rd CD will receive a call from Rep. Kind, inviting them to participate in the Telephone Town Hall. Constituents will then have the option of staying on the line to hear a few comments by Rep. Kind followed by the opportunity to participate in a question and answer session.Constituents may also dial-into the Telephone Town Hall themselves by calling toll-free (866) 447-5149, and entering the code 13433.Note to the media: Media are also invited to participate using the call-in information provided. Please call Anne Lupardus at 202-225-5506 if you have further questions regarding the Telephone Town Hall.
01.17.2008	Rep. Kind Calls for Greater Emphasis on PE in Schools with ‘FIT Kids’ BillWashington, D.C. –A recent report by “Active Living Research,” a national program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation outlines research linking greater physical activity to improved classroom performance and behavior. The report, “Active Education,” indicates that when schools have chosen to replace time available for physical education (PE) with additional academic coursework due to budget concerns or pressure to improve test scores, actual academic performance by students has not improved. U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), lead author of the “Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids (FIT Kids) Act,” (H.R. 3257) pointed to the report as yet another indicator of the need to strengthen PE in America.“It’s simple: You can’t have healthy minds without healthy bodies,” said Rep. Kind. “This report outlines an abundance of research that shows why reducing or eliminating PE in schools is completely counter-intuitive. FIT Kids would strengthen physical education – moving schools toward a national goal for weekly physical activity, and engaging parents in the process. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life.”The report indicates that currently more than one-third of children and teens – about 25 million kids nationwide – are overweight or obese. Despite the alarming trend of childhood obesity, a mere 3.8 percent of elementary schools are providing daily PE. Similarly, only 36 percent of high school students are meeting the current recommended levels of physical activity.Furthermore, the report cites research indicating that sacrificing PE time for additional classroom instruction does not improve academic performance. Instead, research shows that students who are more physically active tend to perform better in the classroom and on standardized tests. Breaks for physical activity, the report continues, can also improve classroom behavior and improve concentration skills.FIT Kids would modify No Child Left Behind (NCLB) to strengthen physical education programs throughout the country. FIT Kids would measure schools on their progress toward meeting a national goal for required physical education recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control of 150 minutes/week in elementary schools and 225 minutes/week in middle and high schools. The bill would also engage parents by requiring schools to report on students’ physical activity.In addition, FIT Kids would support professional development for faculty and staff to integrate physical education into everyday academic curriculum, and authorize a study and pilot program to support effective ways to combat childhood obesity.“It is my hope that when Congress revisits No Child Left Behind this year, it will recognize what researchers already have, and put a new emphasis on physical education in our schools,” Rep. Kind said. “We must do something to reverse the trends in childhood obesity and chronic illness in our kids before it’s too late.”Read the report: Active Education: Physical Education, Physical Activity, and Academic Performance
01.17.2008	Washington, D.C. –With the holidays now behind us and tax season looming, I know that many Wisconsin families are concerned about the direction our economy is heading. I share their concern. Unemployment is up, family income is down, and inflation is the worst in 17 years. Home values are dropping. The price of gasoline has gone up more than 100 percent in Wisconsin since 2001, and the costs of health care, groceries, home heating oil, and a college education continue to rise.The urgency could not be greater to turn things around. Congress returned to Washington this week with an economic stimulus package as our top priority. It is my hope that we can work together – Democrats and Republicans – to kick our economy back into gear and provide immediate relief to middle class families.The Democratically led Congress has already made some progress in this area over the last year. We passed legislation to address the subprime mortgage crisis, increase the minimum wage for the first time in a decade, and save on energy costs in the coming years. We also gave American families the biggest increase in financial aid for their kids’ college tuition since the GI bill.This has not been enough, however, to reverse seven years of misguided economic policies and the explosion they have created in our national debt. We must now do more if we are to avoid a recession and put our economy back on track.I will work hard to help craft an economic stimulus package that provides immediate relief to taxpayers, targets those who need assistance most, and accomplishes both in a fiscally responsible way. There are a number of proposals being discussed right now that I feel would provide some immediate benefit to your wallets, and to our economy. For instance, one-time tax credits targeted at individuals and homeowners would provide a needed influx of spending into our economy after retailers suffered their slowest December in five years. Easing the tax burden on small businesses – the drivers of our economy – with accelerated depreciation would also encourage new business investment, and a credit on health insurance premium expenditures would allow businesses to maintain coverage or even hire new employees.There is also one step that the President could take immediately to put more money in people’s pockets: Stop purchasing high-priced oil for storage in the strategic petroleum reserve. This reserve is already nearly 95 percent full, yet the President continues to fill it with high-priced oil, taking it off the market and helping large oil companies reap record profits. By momentarily stopping the purchase of oil, the President could help reduce oil costs, lower gasoline prices, and save taxpayer dollars. More money in consumers’ pockets is what the economy needs right now, not more record profits for large oil companies.These are just a few of the ways we can work to kick-start our economy and restore confidence in our market and our products. But to have an effect, we must come together and get this done immediately. Families in western Wisconsin and across the country need to know that help is on the way.
12.19.2007	Washington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted against the passage of a one-year fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) because it was deficit financed, and would add $50 billion to the national debt. Not paying for the fix violates “pay-as-you-go” budget rules re-established this year by the Democratic majority after years of fiscal mismanagement by Republicans.“Protecting middle-class families from a tax never intended for them is imperative,” Rep. Kind said. “But we must to do so responsibly, and not pass a legacy of debt to our kids and grandkids. I could not in good conscience vote for this bill that continues the ‘borrow and spend’ policies of the Republican Party, and increases our liability to countries like China who ultimately finance our debt.”The Alternative Minimum Tax was developed in the 1970s as a way to ensure that America’s wealthiest paid their fair share of taxes. However, the AMT has never been indexed for inflation, and without legislation, it will capture millions of middle-class families it was never intended to hit.The Bush Administration has already included the expected AMT revenue in its budget. The $50 billion cost of a one-year AMT fix has essentially already been spent; eliminating the revenue will create a gaping hole in the budget to be filled with borrowed money from China or another foreign government.Congressional Democrats twice sent the Senate a budget-neutral AMT fix in which the cost was offset by preventing the wealthiest hedge-fund managers to escape U.S. tax liability by moving millions of dollars off-shore. However, the President and Senate Republicans chose to reject the responsible bill, favoring instead a fix that adds $50 billion to our already historic national debt.Appearing on ABC’s “This Week with George Stephanopoulos,” Former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan, cautioned that in the current budgetary environment, all tax cuts must be paid-for. Mr. Greenspan went so far as to say he was against the fixing the AMT without paying for it.“Under President Bush and the Republican leadership, our country saw the largest and fastest accumulation of debt in our history,” Rep. Kind said. “Merely the interest on that tremendous debt represents billions of dollars, and is the fastest growing part of our budget. We must get back to fiscal responsibility – we cannot fix the AMT on the backs of our kids and grandkids.”
12.18.2007	Energy Independence and Security Act Strengthens National Security, Combats Global Warming, Lowers Energy Costs, Creates JobsWashington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House in voting to send landmark energy reform legislation to the President’s desk. The President is expected to sign the bill.“Our dependence on imported foreign oil represents a clear and present danger to the security of our country,” Rep. Kind said. “This bill forges a new direction in energy security – one focusing on reducing our dependence on foreign oil, combating global warming, increasing energy efficiency, and creating new jobs. The time is long overdue for the United States to take the lead on renewable energy, and this bill takes the first big step in getting us there.”The Energy Independence and Security Act establishes new fuel efficiency standards for the first time in 32 years, requiring 35 miles per gallon in 2020. This will save American families up to $1,000 per year at the pump, and reduce greenhouse gases equal to taking off the road 28 million of today's average cars and trucks. In Wisconsin, this provision is expected to create 3,000 jobs through the development of new technologies and save families $393 million at the pump in 2020.The bill also improves building, appliance, and lighting efficiency, including requiring the federal government to substitute energy-efficient lighting for incandescent bulbs and follow new “green” building standards for new construction. The new efficiencies will save $400 billion through 2030, and prevent 41 million tons of carbon from entering the atmosphere.“Whether it’s using energy efficient light bulbs, weather-proofing windows, or driving more fuel-efficient cars – there are simple things we can all do that will go a long way,” Rep. Kind added. “It is important for the U.S. government to lead the way in this effort, and likewise I encourage all Wisconsin families to try to identify ways to be more energy efficient. We have a long way to go to wean ourselves off of foreign oil and really address global warming – but it has to start somewhere, and this energy bill is that start.”
12.13.2007	Without Congressional Action, the AMT Would Wrongly Capture 50,000 Middle-Class Families in Western Wisconsin, Substantially Raising Their TaxesWashington, D.C. –U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) last night joined a majority in the House in again voting to pass responsible tax relief and prevent 50,000 western Wisconsin families from being captured by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The bill passed today is in direct response to a Senate Republican filibuster last week of a previous House-passed bill to provide AMT relief without adding to the national debt.“For years, Republicans have been providing tax ‘relief’ that was deficit-financed – passing the debt on to future generations,” Rep. Kind says. “They’re at it again with the AMT – they’d rather add to our historic deficit than make the tough choices needed to protect 50,000 western Wisconsin families from a tax increase. This sort of obstructionist behavior has real effects on families across the country – and I urge them to come to a consensus and pass a responsible, budget-neutral bill as soon as possible.”The Alternative Minimum Tax was developed in the 1970s as a way to ensure that America’s wealthiest could not take advantage of the tax code in a way that would allow them to avoid paying taxes altogether. However, the AMT has never been indexed for inflation, and without this legislation, it would reach into the pocketbooks of millions of middle-class families it was never intended to hit.H.R. 4351 prevents the AMT from affecting 50,000 additional western Wisconsin families (23 million nationally) this year, many of whom have no idea they could face a tax increase. Wisconsin is one of the states that would be most greatly affected by the AMT, ranking 6th out of 50 in the number of new taxpayers (437,000) that would be captured without a fix.Most importantly, the bill is fiscally responsible. It follows pay-as-you-go rules; the AMT patch is fully paid for by closing tax loopholes and eliminating narrowly-targeted tax breaks for corporations.“The AMT fix must be paid-for,” Rep. Kind added. “The difference is that Democrats want to pay for it now, and Republicans want to pass the cost on to our children and grandchildren.”
12.11.2007	With deer-hunting season winding down in Wisconsin, now is a good time to reflect on Chronic Wasting Disease (CWD) and the state and federal efforts to combat it. While CWD does not make headline news as much as it has in years past, the disease is still out there weakening our herd. Both hunters and state and federal officials should not forget that the disease is still poorly understood and retains great potential to spread, particularly given recent studies that show that animals can contract CWD from their environment in addition to direct animal-to-animal contact. Clearly, continued government investment is necessary to minimize its impact in Wisconsin and in states across the nation.The state budget deal that was finally reached in October provides the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (DNR) with more than $1 million less to spend on CWD monitoring, testing, and prevention. Additionally, the federal investment in CWD programs has remained stagnant, and Wisconsin is not likely to receive as much this year from federal funds as expected. While there has been disagreement on the overall effectiveness of the DNR’s CWD program thus far, I would hope hunters, scientists, and officials could continue to agree on the importance of continued efforts to study and combat the disease.Most unfortunate about the loss of funds is that the programs slated to be cut are some of the most innovative. The popular food pantry program will be reduced, as will the practice of sending sharpshooters into disease zones to thin the herd. New research projects will also be eliminated. Finally, less than half the deer were tested this year for the disease than in years past, meaning state officials will have less information on the reach and extent of infection.The importance of maintaining a healthy deer population in Wisconsin cannot be overstated. Hunting and fishing generate about $1.3 billion in revenue for Wisconsin, $60 million of which goes directly to conservation and management programs. Home to more than 1.5 million white-tailed deer, our state is one of the premier hunting locations in the country. The threat CWD posed to the health of this vital part of Wisconsin’s economy and heritage is what led U.S. Rep. Paul Ryan and I to form the Congressional CWD Task Force in order to raise awareness of the disease and advocate for federal funding. We continue to do so today through the Task Force and our additional roles as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus.
12.06.2007	‘Energy Independence and Security Act’ is Landmark Commitment to Energy Efficiency and Renewable Fuels, Combats Global WarmingWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House in passing a comprehensive renewable energy bill, the Energy Independence and Security Act, designed to reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil, lower energy costs, create new jobs, and begin to address global climate change. The bill overall will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 35 percent of what is needed by 2030 to significantly combat global warming.“With gasoline at more than $3.00 a gallon, family budgets are being squeezed across Wisconsin and the entire country,” Rep. Kind said. “The time is long overdue for the United States to get in the lead on renewable energy, and this bill will help us get there. From new fuel efficiency standards to investments in new renewable energy technologies, this bill forges a new direction for energy security – and people will see it not only in their wallet, but in the air they breathe as well.”The Energy Independence and Security Act requires for the first time that 15 percent of our electricity come from renewable sources, and establishes landmark new energy efficiency standards for a wide range of products, appliances, lighting and buildings. It also increases the fuel efficiency of vehicles to 35 miles per gallon by 2020, the first increase in a generation. This provision will save American families up to $1,000 per year at the pump, and reduce greenhouse gases equal to taking off the road 28 million of today's average cars and trucks. In Wisconsin, this provision is expected to create 3,000 jobs through the development of new technologies and save families $393 million at the pump in 2020.To encourage its rapid development, the Energy Independence and Security Act includes tax incentives for solar, wind, biomass, and geothermal technologies and supports cutting-edge energy research. The entire bill is paid for by repealing $13 billion in tax breaks that were needlessly given to big oil companies and through some additional bipartisan tax measures.Finally, the bill includes an increase to the Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS), requiring the United States to use 36 billion gallons of ethanol and other biofuels in 2022, a 500 percent expansion of this mandate over the current standard. Included in the bill is language by Rep. Kind establishing a comprehensive study of biofuel use and the consequences for the environment, prices at the pump and at the grocery store, and the shape of rural America.“As we pursue renewable energy technologies to lower energy costs and better our environment, we must do so responsibly, without creating other serious problems,” Rep. Kind said. “While the ethanol boom has provided real economic benefit to rural areas, communities are already seeing some of the unintended impacts of the industry’s rapid expansion – increased water consumption, fertilizer use, and runoff into lakes, rivers, and streams. I look forward to the results of this study to help us pursue renewable energy technologies in the most sustainable way possible.”
12.05.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) returned from Iraq Tuesday, encouraged by the evident reduction in violence and high morale from U.S. troops, but disappointed in the lack of political progress and the prospects for future compromise among Iraq’s factions.“As I have experienced in my three previous trips, I am never prouder to be an American than when I see our brave troops in the field,” Rep. Kind said. “They are impressive, making repeated contacts with local Iraqi people in the communities they are serving, and creating a welcomed sense of security for many.”Rep. Kind and the bipartisan congressional delegation (CODEL) visited Iraqi refugee families in Amman, Jordan and U.S. troops in Baghdad, and took part in intelligence briefings with General Petraeus on the missions being conducted in every region of Iraq. The small CODEL also visited two markets in Ramadi and North Baghdad, where under Marine protection and through the use of translators, they spoke with Iraqi business owners and families shopping for goods.“I am very encouraged with the reduction of violence in some areas, but equally discouraged by the lack of political reconciliation happening with the Iraqi government,” Rep. Kind said. “I was particularly surprised by our ability to interact with Iraqis doing business in the markets of Ramadi and North Baghdad. But I recognize that fault lines remain in this war, and the reduction in violence is not across the board. Furthermore, the reduced violence in an area can also be attributed to its lack of ethnic diversity – resulting from emigration or sometimes even ethnic cleansing.”In meetings with Sunni sheiks, Shi’a Sadrists, and U.S. military commanders, Rep. Kind pressed for answers to why the political reconciliation is not happening. In gauging the willingness of Iraq’s political representatives to work together, Rep. Kind found great distrust among the different political parties.“In this tremendously complicated nation, there has never been power-sharing or even compromise, and these are not things they are suddenly embracing today,” Rep. Kind said. “No one can guarantee they will ever achieve political reconciliation, and the United States cannot continue babysitting this nation forever. We need to push Iraqi security forces to the forefront with a clear plan and timeline to begin drawing down our troops and redeploying them out of country.”Rep. Kind also examined instances of tax dollars being wasted through hundreds of millions in no-bid contracts awarded by the U.S. government. Rep. Kind met with U.S. generals who manage operations and representatives of USAID, inquiring as to how the U.S. government is tightening up their contracting process. Officials responded that increased oversight and accountability in outside contracting with both American and Iraqi businesses was working to combat waste, and that the Iraqi government has cracked down on employees engaging in fraud.“The bottom line is that we have lost more than 3,000 American men and women, spent nearly $1 trillion, and have been engaged in Iraq longer than the Second World War,” Rep. Kind said. “Still no one can guarantee – or even define – success in Iraq. Seeing our military operations first hand, I can say that it is time to take the training wheels off of the Iraqi government, draw down the U.S. presence and force them to take control of the future of their country.”
11.27.2007	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today reminded Medicare beneficiaries that the open enrollment period going on now through December 31 offers those on Medicare Part D an opportunity to change their plan if it isn’t meeting their needs.“Medicare Part D was met with a lot of confusion by seniors, and with more than 60 plans to choose from, many seniors may have signed up for a plan that is not best suited for their health needs,” Rep. Kind said. “This is an opportunity for people to change their prescription drug plan, and I encourage seniors to take advantage of it if they are dissatisfied with their current coverage. There may very well be another plan that is a better value for the prescriptions they are taking.”Medicare Part D beneficiaries are in no way required to change plans. The open enrollment period simply offers seniors the opportunity to switch plans if their Part D plan isn’t meeting their needs due to a change in health or simply confusion in their initial sign-up. Rep. Kind encourages seniors who have access to the internet to use the www.medicare.gov online Plan Finder and comparison tools. Beneficiaries can also talk with a 1-800-MEDICARE representative or contact their county aging office for more information.Other sources of information and help are: · Medicare helpline: 1-800-633-4227 or www.medicare.gov 24 hours a day, 7 days a week · WI prescription drug hotline: 1-866-456-8211 · SeniorCare hotline: 1-800-657-2038 · Coalition of Wisconsin Aging Groups, Elder Law Center: www.wismedrx.org· County Departments on Aging to speak to a benefits specialist · Congressman Ron Kind’s Office 1-888-442-8040County Aging Offices:· Buffalo County Aging Unit: 608-685-4412 · Clark County Office on Aging: 715-743-5144 · Crawford County Senior Resources: 608-326-0235 · Dunn County Office on Aging: 715-232-4006 · Eau Claire County Dept on Aging: 715-839-4735 · Grant County Center on Aging: 608-723-6113 · Iowa County Commission on Aging: 608-935-0389 · Jackson County HelpLink – Aging and Disability Resource Center: 715-284-4301 ext. 2 · Juneau County Aging Department: 608-847-9366 · La Crosse County Aging Unit: 608-785-9710 · Lafayette County Commission on Aging: 608-776-4888 · Monroe County Senior Services: 608-269-8690 · Pepin County Senior Services: 715-672-8936 · Pierce County Office on Aging: 715-273-6780 · Richland County HHS-Aging and Disability Resource Center: 608-647-4616 · Sauk County Commission on Aging: 608-355-3289 · St. Croix County Dept on Aging: 715-381-4360 · Trempealeau County Senior Services: 715-538-2311 ext. 250 · Vernon County Aging Unit: 608-637-5201
11.15.2007	Grant Program Will Promote Careers in Closed-Captioning to Meet Vital Need for Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing Americans Washington, D.C. – A proposal by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) to help ensure there are enough “realtime” writers to make closed-captioning services widely available for deaf and hearing-impaired residents is headed to the House floor for a vote. The Training for Realtime Writers Act of 2007, establishing a grant program to encourage careers in realtime writing and court reporting, was included as part a higher education reform bill that passed the House Education Committee today.“Court reporters are the guardians of the public record, and closed-captioners help our hearing impaired residents stay informed,” Rep. Kind said. “Right now we are educating only half the realtime writers we need to fill these jobs, and this new grant program would increase awareness and interest in this vital profession.”Over 30 million Americans are deaf or hard-of-hearing, and approximately 90 percent of them rely on captioning services for news and information. The captioning industry is strained to capacity in its effort to ensure that the round-the-clock news and information is accessible to this community.The Telecommunications Act of 1996 mandated that all television programming be fully captioned by 2006. However, with schools educating only half the captioners needed, thousands of hours of programming are left unavailable to the deaf or hard of hearing. Rep. Kind’s proposal advanced today establishes a competitive grant program which would allow colleges and universities to apply for funding specifically to help encourage more students to pursue a career in realtime writing or court reporting.“Without closed-captioning, our deaf and hard-of-hearing residents are left without critical information – and could be left unprepared during a national crisis,” Rep. Kind said. “Total closed captioning was mandated more than a decade ago, and it is well past time that we ensure information access for all.”Rep. Kind’s wife, Tawni, works as an official court reporter for the County Court System in La Crosse.
11.15.2007	Thursday’s Match-up Against Dallas Cowboys Unavailable to Vast Majority of Charter Cable SubscribersWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today sent a letter to the Commissioner of the National Football League Roger Goodell and the President and CEO of Charter Communications Neil Smit concerning a business dispute that is denying thousands of Packers fans access to Thursday’s important match-up against the Dallas Cowboys.“Despite paying record prices for game tickets, merchandise, and cable packages, the people of western Wisconsin are also being asked to pay even more to follow their favorite NFL team,” Rep. Kind said. “That is not right. I find it truly unfortunate that short-term financial decisions are taking precedence over the long-term goodwill of western Wisconsinites.”Rep. Kind urged the two entities to quickly find an amicable agreement to ensure the games are available to fans in Wisconsin.
11.14.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House to send the President the Improving Head Start Act of 2007 (H.R. 1429) conference report, which reauthorizes and improves the Head Start program through 2012. Included in the bill is a measure authored by Rep. Kind to end the use of the National Reporting System (NRS) – a badly flawed testing mechanism that since 2003 has assessed more than 500,000 four-year-olds in the Head Start program.“Head Start provides an essential service to the youngest and neediest children in the country, and this bill will help us make it even better – with better teachers, more research-based practices, and new accountability measures,” Rep. Kind said. “This bill will also end the practice of testing four-year-olds in Head Start, something that has not been proven effective, and can actually do more harm than good. I am pleased our schools will no longer be inappropriately testing these young children.”Head Start is a highly successful early education program for both low-income children and their families. Research finds that children who attend Head Start enter school better prepared those who do not attend the program. There is also research showing that Head Start students are less likely to need special education services, repeat a grade, or commit crimes in adolescence, and are more likely to graduate from high school.Head Start was due to be reauthorized in 2003, but because of a stalemate the 108th and 109th Congresses failed to complete a final Head Start bill to send to the President. This bill will help more kids arrive at kindergarten ready to succeed by improving program quality and expanding access.Specifically, the bill will:Increase teacher quality by requiring that 50% of Head Start teachers have a minimum of a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education or a related field by 2013 and by providing new funds to increase teacher salaries and a loan forgiveness program for Head Start teachers. Expands access by providing millions in new funding for the program, allowing tens of thousands of new children and their families to be enrolled. Puts greater focus on making sure kids are ready for school by requiring that all programs use research-based practices and that the program’s early learning standards are updated. Increases accountability by tightening fiscal controls at both the federal and local levels to better ensure funds are used appropriately and efficiently and by requiring underperforming programs to re-compete for their grants.
11.13.2007	Washington, D.C. – Following Veterans Day, the week of November 11-17, 2007 has been designated as “National Veterans History Project Week” by the Library of Congress to encourage more veterans to submit their stories to the Veterans History Project (VHP), a national archive of veterans’ wartime experiences. The week was made possible through a resolution co-authored by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), which was passed by the House earlier this month.The result of legislation Rep. Kind authored in 2000, the VHP uses volunteer interviewers to record the stories of veterans and their families. To date, the VHP has collected more than 50,000 individual stories, which are entered into the permanent collections of the Library of Congress’s American Folklife Center for future generations.“Taking the time to interview a friend or loved one about their service is a way to honor and remember the sacrifices they made for this country,” Rep. Kind said. “When I’ve interviewed veterans over the years, it is often the first time they have opened up about their wartime experiences, and it can be very moving for everyone involved. That is because the personal stories of America’s veterans are the most powerful record that we have to document the sacrifice and hardship of our nation at war. This week, I encourage more people to reach out to those they know that have served this country and record their stories for the VHP, an extraordinary archive and memorial to our nation’s veterans.”National Veterans History Project Week is working in concert with an ongoing collaboration between the Library of Congress and Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). Public Television stations across the country are currently engaging and educating their communities about VHP, an effort which began this fall to coincide with the broadcast of Ken Burn’s seven-part World War II documentary, THE WAR. The documentary has cultivated new interest in preserving veterans’ wartime stories.“I cannot think of a better way to honor our veterans than by trying to preserve as many of their memories and stories as possible,” Rep. Kind added. “And with America losing more than 1,000 World War II veterans a day, the urgency couldn’t be greater to ensure that future generations of Americans are able to appreciate the incredible sacrifices made for their freedom.”For information on how to submit a story to the Veteran’s History Project, go to www.loc.gov/vets or call the toll-free message line at (888) 371-5848 to request a project kit.
11.12.2007	Washington, D.C. –On Veterans Day (observed), U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined with local veterans to highlight the many ways Congress has honored veterans over the last year, including the approval of the largest-ever increase for veterans health care in the 77-year history of the Veterans Administration.“It’s one thing to say we support our veterans, but quite another to put money where our mouths are,” Rep. Kind said. “I am extremely proud of the historic commitment we’ve made to our veterans, current military servicemen and women, and their families. The actions we’ve taken in the last year properly honor them and help them build a future worthy of their service and sacrifice.”Actions the House has taken just this year include:Largest Ever Increase for Veterans’ Health Care: Congress’s Veterans Administration spending bill included a nearly $7 billion increase in total spending over last year, providing for the largest increase in VA health care in history. The new funding allows for more qualified health professionals to improve medical services and reduce waiting times for appointments, and more assistance for veterans’ mental health. The measure also provides funding to add 1,100 new claims processors to reduce the 400,000 claims backlog for veterans waiting for disability and other benefits. Improving Care at Veterans Health Facilities: The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act (H.R. 1538) takes the first steps to address the problems brought to light at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and at military healthcare facilities across the nation – improving outpatient medical care for wounded soldiers, cutting bureaucratic red tape, demanding accountability from the veterans disability system, and improving the transition of wounded soldiers from the Armed Services to the VA System. Pay Raise for the Troops: H.R. 1585 provides all service members a well deserved and overdue pay raise of 3.5 percent, as well as special pay and bonuses to combat troops. Medical Leave for Families of Soldiers Wounded in Combat: H.R. 976 provided 6 months of unpaid, job-protected leave to the spouse, parent, child, or next of kin of service members (including members of the reserve) who suffer from a service connected injury or illness. This was recommended by the President’s Commission on Care for America’s Returning Veterans, but was vetoed by the President as part of the State Children’s Health Insurance bill. Expanded Wisconsin’s Veterans Home Loan Program: The House recently passed HR 3997, the HEART Act, which included a provision by Rep. Kind that greatly expands the amount of Qualified Veterans Mortgage Bonds (QVMBs) available to Wisconsin. The proceeds from selling QVMBs are used to make low-interest mortgage loans to veterans with benefits that can save thousands of dollars a year in mortgage costs. HR 3997 increases the maximum amount of QVMB bonds that Wisconsin can issue from $25 to $100 million, ensuring this program will remain available to Wisconsin veterans. National Veterans History Project Week: The House recently passed House Resolution 770, co-authored by Rep. Kind which establishes a “National Veterans History Project Week” to increase public participation in the Veterans History Project. The week will be designated to coincide with Veterans Day, this year November 11-17.“There are more than 450,000 veterans in Wisconsin alone,” Rep. Kind said. “I know that these veterans’ sacrifices did not end on the battlefield, so neither should our support for them. The actions taken in the last year help make up for years where Congress neglected to adequately fund veterans’ programs, putting us back on the right path to ensuring our veterans get the care and benefits they deserve and have earned.”Rep. Kind was joined at the event by local veterans, including Retired Major General Neil Duresky, Vice Commander of American Legion Post 52 and a Korean War veteran, who spoke about how the concerns of aging veterans have been addressed, as well as Jim Gausman, the La Crosse County Veterans Service Officer, who spoke about the current needs of our returning veterans.
11.09.2007	Without Congressional Action, Alternative Minimum Tax Would Wrongly Capture Middle-Class Families, Substantially Raising Their Taxes Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a majority in the House in voting to pass H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, which offers immediate tax relief to Wisconsin families by extending certain tax deductions and prevents 50,000 middle-class families from western Wisconsin from being captured by the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT).“Without a fix like the one we passed today, 50,000 western Wisconsin families would have had a rude awakening when they determined their taxes this spring,” Rep. Kind said. “With the price of gas, health care, and college on the rise, middle-class families should not be paying the AMT, a tax never intended for them.”The Alternative Minimum Tax was developed in the 1970s as a way to ensure that America’s wealthiest could not take advantage of the tax code in a way that would allow them to avoid paying taxes altogether. However, the AMT has never been indexed for inflation, and without this legislation, it would reach into the pocketbooks of millions of middle-class families it was never intended to hit.H.R. 3996 prevents the AMT from affecting 50,000 additional western Wisconsin families (23 million nationally) this year, many of whom have no idea they could face a tax increase. Wisconsin is one of the states that would be most greatly affected by the AMT, ranking 6th out of 50 in the number of new taxpayers (437,000) that would be captured without a fix.The Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007 also provides some important relief by extending certain tax provisions. The bill:Expands the property tax deduction for homeowners to $500 ($250 for single taxpayers) Makes more families eligible for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit Extends the current deduction for college tuition Allows teachers to deduct up to $250 of out-of-pocket expenses used for their classroomsThe bill is also fiscally responsible. It follows pay-as-you-go rules; the tax benefits are fully paid for by closing tax loopholes and eliminating narrowly-targeted tax breaks for corporations.“For years, Republicans have been providing tax ‘relief’ that was deficit-financed and targeted at the wrong group of people,” Rep. Kind says. “This bill will make a real difference in the budgets of middle-class families, and does not add one cent to our deficit.”
11.08.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3688, the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act.“This truly is a new day for trade policy in the United States. The Peru trade agreement for the first time enacts strong and enforceable labor and environmental standards – long-standing Democratic demands – establishing a new template for any future agreements. In my capacity as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which is responsible for overseeing trade agreements, I was proud of the bipartisan support it received in today’s vote.“I have long believed that when instituted correctly and fairly, trade agreements open up new markets to U.S. goods, create opportunities for companies and their employees, and lift the standard of living for people in the country with whom we are trading. Furthermore, if we are to compete in this 21st century global economy, the U.S. cannot not shy away from opportunities to guide and expand global trade.“Right now, 98 percent of Peru’s exports come to the U.S. duty-free, while many U.S. exports to Peru are met with tariffs as high as 30 percent. By eliminating tariffs on our exports, the agreement makes our trade with Peru fairer, and offers tremendous opportunities for Wisconsin’s businesses and farmers. It is estimated that this agreement will increase U.S. exports to Peru by 25 percent.“I want to thank Chairman Rangel for his leadership in achieving this new direction for trade. I look forward to pursuing future trade agreements that, like this one, are balanced and fair for American workers and companies as well as for the nations we seek to engage.”
11.06.2007	Legislation Would Benefit Upper Mississippi River Basin Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted with an overwhelming majority of the House to successfully override President Bush’s veto of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), a vital water infrastructure bill that authorizes hundreds of Corps of Engineers flood control, navigation, beach erosion control, and environmental restoration projects across the country, including a number in the Upper Mississippi River Basin.“This is a tremendously important bill to the Upper Mississippi River Basin,” Rep. Kind said. “It will allow a number of infrastructure and environmental improvement projects to move forward, including new locks and dams on the Mississippi and a barrier to protect the river from harmful invasive species. With his veto, the President is ignoring the reality that these projects are long overdue and necessary to the infrastructure and economy of our country.”Contrary to President Bush’s characterization of the bill as being “fiscally irresponsible,” the bill does not actually spend any money. It is an authorization bill that simply allows the government to move forward on projects, with funding appropriated later. Furthermore, because the Republican leadership failed to reauthorize WRDA in more than seven years, this legislation addresses a growing backlog of vital project requests. The bill also has overwhelming, bipartisan support – the House passed it 381-40 on August 1 and the Senate passed it 81-12 on September 24.WRDA would benefit the Upper Mississippi River Basin in a number of ways:Infrastructure improvement, including new locks and dams on the Upper Mississippi River. Environmental restoration and ecosystem management projects, including island building, construction of fish passages, floodplain restoration, water level management, and spillway, dam, and levee modification. Long term monitoring and restoration of the Upper Mississippi River Basin by continuing the Environmental Management Program (EMP), as well as allowing projects to move forward through the new Navigation and Ecosystem Sustainability Program (NESP), which will build on EMP’s success. Construction of a barrier preventing the spread of aquatic invasive species into the Upper Mississippi River ecosystem within six months. Balance of construction projects with ecosystem restoration projects.
11.05.2007	Tax Package for Military Families Quadruples Availability of Home Loans for Wisconsin Veterans Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed House Resolution 770, co-authored by U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), which will establish a “National Veterans History Project Week” to increase public participation in the Veterans History Project. The week will be designated to coincide with Veterans Day, this year November 11-17.“The personal stories of America’s veterans are the most powerful record that we have to document the sacrifice and hardship of our nation at war,” Rep. Kind said. “With America losing almost 1,000 World War II veterans a day, it is crucial that future generations of Americans are able to appreciate the extraordinary sacrifices made for their freedom. National Veterans History Project week will encourage more people to reach out to friends and family that have served this country and record their stories for this extraordinary collection of veterans’ voices.”The result of legislation Rep. Kind authored in 2000, the Veterans History Project uses volunteer interviewers to record the stories of veterans and their families. To date, the VHP has collected more than 50,000 individual stories, which are entered into the permanent collections of the Library of Congress’s American Folklife Center for future generations.The resolution calls upon Americans to interview at least one veteran from their families or communities, following guidelines provided by The Veterans History Project. It also encourages public and private institutions to collaborate in the effort to publicize VHP to veterans and help in recording their stories.National Veterans History Project Week will work in concert with an ongoing collaboration between the Library of Congress and Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). Public Television stations across the country are currently engaging and educating their communities about VHP, an effort which began this fall to coincide with the broadcast of Ken Burn’s seven-part World War II documentary, THE WAR. The documentary has cultivated new interest in preserving veterans’ wartime stories.“I cannot think of a better way to honor our veterans than by trying to preserve as many of their memories and stories as possible,” Rep. Kind added. “I encourage people in Wisconsin to participate in this nationwide effort next week.”
11.01.2007	Tax Package for Military Families Quadruples Availability of Home Loans for Wisconsin Veterans Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and the Ways and Means Committee today advanced HR 3997, the “Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2007,” which included a number of tax provisions benefiting military families. Rep. Kind was able to include in the bill a measure to expand the amount of Qualified Veterans Mortgage Bonds available to Wisconsin. The measure will now go to the full House for a vote.“Particularly now with the credit crisis our country is experiencing, this program is incredibly important to making the dream of homeownership a reality for Wisconsin veterans,” Rep. Kind said. “To date, the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs has helped more than 54,000 Wisconsin veterans build or buy a home through the use of Qualified Veterans’ Mortgage Bonds, and I am so pleased I was able to help expand this program to help even more families.”The proceeds from selling Qualified Veterans’ Mortgage Bonds (QVMB) are used to make low-interest mortgage loans to veterans with benefits that can save thousands of dollars a year in mortgage costs. Only five states are eligible to issue these bonds: Alaska, California, Oregon, Texas, and Wisconsin.HR 3997 increases the maximum amount of QVMB bonds that Wisconsin can issue from $25 to $100 million, ensuring this program will remain available to Wisconsin veterans. Without the increase, the Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs would not be able to meet the needs of Wisconsin veterans seeking to purchase or build a home.“This dramatic increase for our state veterans’ home loan program will help hundreds of Wisconsin veterans each year to be able to purchase their own home,” said Wisconsin Department of Veterans Affairs Acting Secretary Bill Kloster. “The affected states have been working closely with Congress for many years, and this action today represents a tremendous achievement for the good of our veterans.”In Wisconsin, mortgage loans can be made to veterans who apply for financing within 25 years of their active service. Veterans interested in applying should contact their County Veterans Service Office to find out if they are eligible.
11.01.2007	Rep. Kind with Ways and Means Committee Extends Tax Deductions, Prevents Alternative Minimum Tax from Hitting 50,000 Western Wisconsin Families Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, in his position as a member of the powerful tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, today advanced H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007. This bill offers immediate tax relief to Wisconsin families by extending certain tax deductions, and preventing 50,000 middle-class families from western Wisconsin from being captured by the Alternative Minimum Tax.“I am pleased in my new position on Ways and Means to be able to offer this type of relief to middle-class families,” Rep. Kind said. “Not only are we preventing an unfair tax burden for 50,000 people in western Wisconsin by fixing the AMT, we are extending the tax deductions that make a real difference in family budgets. It is my hope that further action on this bill is quick to get it enacted into law and dollars back in the pockets of families across the country.”The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was developed in the 1970s as a way to ensure that America’s wealthiest could not take advantage the tax code in a way that would allow them to avoid paying taxes all together. However, the AMT was not indexed for inflation, and without this legislation, would reach into the pocketbooks of middle-class families it was never intended to hit.The bill prevents the AMT from affecting 50,000 additional western Wisconsin families this year, many of whom have no idea they could face a tax increase. In Wisconsin it is estimated that the AMT would have hit an additional 437,000 taxpayers, and 23 million nationally.In addition to the AMT patch, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007 offers taxpayers the following benefits:Expands the property tax deduction for homeowners to $500 ($250 for single taxpayers);Makes more families eligible for the $1,000 refundable child tax credit; andExtends the current deduction for college tuition.The bill is also fiscally responsible. The tax benefits are fully paid for by closing loopholes and eliminating narrowly-targeted tax breaks for corporations.“This shows that we can provide tax relief without sending the debt on to our children,” Rep. Kind said. “After years of fiscal recklessness – deficit-financed tax cuts for the wealthy and out-of-control government spending – this bill sets a precedent of fiscally responsible tax reform.”
10.31.2007	Ways & Means Committee Develops Package to Increase Training Opportunities, Health Care Benefits for Workers Affected by TradeWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House to approve H.R. 3920, the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007, legislation developed by the House Committee on Ways and Means, on which Kind serves. This legislation would overhaul the current Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to better meet the needs of American workers and communities affected by globalization.“International trade is an essential part of the American economy today and in the future,” Rep. Kind said. “Reducing trade barriers in recent years has led to increased trade volume – $3.6 trillion last year alone – benefiting American workers, businesses, and consumers. But knowing that these benefits do not accrue evenly across all industries, the TAA program is important to help smooth the transition for workers who have to make the shift to a more competitive field.”The Trade and Globalization Assistance Act of 2007 would expand TAA coverage to more workers, including service workers, and substantially improve the program’s training opportunities and health care benefits. The legislation also makes long-overdue reforms to the unemployment insurance system, recognizing that all unemployed workers deserve our support in getting back on their feet.The bill also takes the TAA program beyond the effects on individual workers by offering new tax incentives for investment in distressed communities that have lost manufacturing jobs. The whole notion of worker assistance is meaningless without creating new jobs for displaced employees. Targeting investment into communities with an available workforce would benefit employers and employees alike and maintain vibrant towns and cities across this nation.“I am pleased this bill passed with strong bipartisan backing, and am hoping the pending trade deals will enjoy the same support in the coming weeks and months,” Rep. Kind said. “By giving our businesses the freedom they need to sell American goods and services abroad, we are ensuring that the American economy will stay strong and competitive in the future, and that there will always be a place for American workers.”
10.30.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Dave Camp (R-MI), both members of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, have introduced a bill that will expand access to dental care for Native Americans. The bill, the Native American Full Access to Dental Care Act (HR 3960), will encourage more dentists to practice in the Indian Health Service (IHS), which is in critical need of dentists.“Access to good preventive and restorative dental care is absolutely essential to the general health and well-being of all Americans,” Rep. Kind said. “But right now, many Native American communities don’t have enough dentists to meet their needs. This bill will help the IHS better recruit dentists to make a commitment to practicing in these areas of great need, expanding access to dental care for Native Americans across the country.”Currently more than one-third of dentist positions are vacant within the IHS, the federal agency that provides health services to American Indians and Alaska Natives. This shortage has resulted in insufficient or a total lack of access to important dental care services for many of the 1.8 million Native Americans living in the United States. Lack of dental care can cause greater health issues, as researchers have found that advanced gum disease (periodontitis) can be associated with cardiovascular disease, stroke, and bacterial pneumonia. In addition, according to the American Dental Association, pregnant women who have periodontitis may be more likely to deliver pre-term and/or low birth weight babies.To help alleviate the shortage, the Native American Full Access to Dental Care Act will encourage more dentists to practice in the IHS. Under current law, dentists and other health professionals who agree to practice in this agency are eligible for federal student loan repayments for the debt they have incurred from a lengthy medical education. These student loan payments, however, are taxable as income, diminishing the impact and usefulness of the loan repayment program. The Native American Full Access to Dental Care Act would exempt these loan repayments from the dentists’ taxable income, making the loan assistance program a more effective recruitment tool for the IHS.“This legislation is critically important to helping improve dental care for Michigan residents who live on or near a reservation,” said Rep. Camp. “I am proud to work with Rep. Kind on this innovative legislation that will encourage dentists to provide services in high-need areas.”
10.25.2007	Tax Relief Measure to Help Area ‘S Corporations’ Reinvest, Grow their BusinessWashington, D.C. – In his continuing effort to find ways to bolster small business growth and investment, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), member of the powerful tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means has co-authored the Small Business Growth and Opportunity Act (H.R. 3874), which would modify an unreasonable penalty paid by “S-Corporations.”“There are a number of commonsense changes we can make to the tax code that will have huge returns in terms of growth and investment – and this is one of them,” Rep. Kind said. “My goal on the Ways and Means Committee is to look out for the small and family-owned businesses that drive the economy in Wisconsin and across the country. This bill speaks to that, reducing a penalty on S corporations, and thus encouraging them to reinvest the savings into growing their business and creating jobs.”There are 3.8 million registered S corporations nationwide, 3,400 in Wisconsin alone. They are small and family-owned businesses that have between 1 and 100 shareholders, and are taxed differently than large corporations. Right now, S corporations are taxed twice on assets they sell within 10 years of converting to this tax classification – making the sale and reinvestment of these assets prohibitively expensive and hindering growth and job creation. In some states, the double-tax burden can reach as high as 70 percent.Requiring S corporations to hold on to unproductive and inefficient assets for 10 years limits cash flow and availability and encourages excess borrowing. To provide some relief, the Small Business Growth and Opportunity Act would allow S corporations to liquidate unproductive assets after seven years – a more realistic business cycle – freeing up capital to be used to grow the business and create new jobs.“A three-year reduction in this unreasonable and unproductive penalty will be a good start to easing the overall tax burden on small and family-owned businesses, helping them grow and prosper in an increasingly competitive market,” Rep. Kind added.Ferrellgas, an S corporation with employee-owned distribution centers throughout the Third Congressional District in Bloomington, Boscobel, Cochrane, Eau Claire, Hudson, Loyal, Platteville, Richland Center, and Sparta, will benefit from the relief provided by the bill."We're delighted that Congressman Kind is committed to the success of private industry in the region and across our country,” said Gene Caresia, Vice President, Human Resources and Legal at Ferrellgas. “Ferrellgas is proud to be 100 percent owned by our workers, and our employee-owners will benefit from the Congressman's work to address this onerous and outdated tax burden. We are confident that it will also have considerable benefits for other private and small and family owned companies throughout Wisconsin."U.S. Rep. Kagen (D-WI) introduced H.R. 3874 in the House this week with U.S. Rep. Kind (D-WI), as well as Jim Ramstad (R-MN), and Phil English (R-PA).
10.22.2007	Establishes Comprehensive Approach to #1 Refuge ThreatWashington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 767, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Refuge Ecology Protection, Assistance, & Immediate Response (REPAIR) Act, advancing the bill that would combat the growing and costly problem of invasive species in the nation’s wildlife refuges to the Senate for action.“For too long, our National Wildlife Refuges have been overlooked and neglected,” Rep. Kind said. “Meanwhile, refuges have faced an unanswered march of invasive plants and animals that have literally taken over, crowding out the very wildlife and habitat the refuges are charged with protecting. By providing grants for both immediate response and long-term eradication of invasives, passage of the REPAIR Act brings us one step closer to giving our National Wildlife Refuge System a vital tool in combating the number one ecological and economic threat to their quality and longevity.”The backlog for specifically combating invasive species is the fastest-growing portion of the National Wildlife Refuge budget, reaching nearly $391 million. These expenses are cutting deeply into already stretched refuge operations and maintenance budgets. The REPAIR Act begins to address this crisis in the nation’s refuge system by through a two-pronged approach:Immediate Response Grants for when a harmful non-native species has been identified as an immediate threat to a refuge at a stage at which rapid eradication is possible. These grants will help prevent new invasive species from taking hold and wreaking havoc on refuge ecosystems. REPAIR Grants, which will contribute to a more long-term strategy for combating existing invasives. These grants would go to states, local governments, community groups, or individuals to remove harmful non-native species and promote native species and their habitat on lands and waters in and adjacent to National Wildlife Refuges. Additionally, the grants could be used to complete assessment projects consistent with existing state wildlife conservation plans to identify invasive species, assess the needs on the ground, and target resources to address the problem adequately and efficiently.All grants would be awarded on a competitive basis and include monitoring and reporting requirements to ensure proper oversight ability by the Fish and Wildlife Service. The federal grants would cover 100 percent of the cost for projects within refuges and for immediate response projects, but a non-federal cost share of at least 25 percent would be required for REPAIR grants on adjacent lands.“The REPAIR Act brings together the public and private sectors to ensure the future of our Wildlife Refuge System,” Rep. Kind added. “These are special places unlike any other in the world. They are the only federal land system devoted primarily to the preservation of our unique wildlife resources. I know from the countless hours I’ve spent taking in the grandeur of the Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge, admiring the special beauty of Trempealeau, or proudly watching the whooping cranes take off from Necedah, that these places are an integral part of the American experience that deserve special protection. This bill recognizes that.”Species that are considered invasive the Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish include the purple loosestrife, black locust and zebra mussels.
10.18.2007	Override Vote Came Up 13 Votes ShortWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today made the following statement on the failure of the House to get the two-thirds majority needed to override President Bush's veto of legislation to expand and extend the State Children's Health Insurance Program. The House came up 13 votes short of the 286 needed to override the President’s veto.“Unfortunately, today House Republicans chose party loyalty over kids, and upset a rare bipartisan effort to extend health insurance coverage to millions more deserving children. Overriding the veto was the right thing to do – the bill was not only fiscally responsible, it was also a smart investment the future health of this country.“The sooner we can give kids access to preventive care services, the more likely it is we’ll avoid greater health care costs down the road. In Wisconsin, SCHIP funds BadgerCare, and with the help of this bill, Wisconsin could have worked to extend health care coverage to the 63,000 children in the state that are still uninsured.“Over the past few weeks, the President and his followers have made false claims about this bill, characterizing it as fiscally irresponsible and directed at the wrong people. The SCHIP bill would simply allow states like Wisconsin to capture more children who are already eligible for coverage but who – because of a lack of resources – are not already enrolled in the program. Moreover, this bill is completely paid for with a modest increase in the tobacco tax – the most important thing we can do to prevent kids from smoking, and another way to avoid unnecessary health care costs in the future.“I simply do not understand how the President can justify another $200 billion in deficit financing for the war in Iraq, while at the same time vetoing a budget-neutral bill that will provide 10 million children with health insurance. An overwhelming majority of Americans believe this is the right thing to do for our kids, and in the wake of this vote, we will continue to look for ways to work together to give health care to children who – by no fault of their own – have been denied coverage.”
10.16.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, founder and co-chair of the Upper Mississippi Basin River Task Force today made the following statement in response to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) report, Mississippi River Water Quality and the Clean Water Act: Progress, Challenges, and Opportunities:“While we have made some progress in decreasing pollution and restoring habitat in the Mississippi River, the Environmental Protection Agency clearly needs to make the health of the river a greater priority, and work alongside states in better regulating the sediment and nutrient flow that poses a very serious threat to the long-term health of the entire river system – and therefore human health, our economy, and the quality of life we enjoy in the Mississippi River Valley.“Among its recommendations, NAS calls for developing a coordinated effort in tracking pollution from non-point sources. The Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act (HR 2381) – legislation I authored and that recently passed the House – would develop a public-private approach to understanding and reducing nutrient and sediment loss in the river basin. The effective, basin-wide, and non-regulatory approach supports the recommendations made in the NAS report, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take quick action on it.“In addition, NAS calls for increased funding for voluntary U.S. Department of Agriculture conservation programs, something I agree must be a major component of the next Farm Bill. Right now three out of every four farmers who apply for funding are turned away, and increased funding would allow more farmers to participate in programs that promote and reward practices that reduce runoff from farms into the river. That’s why earlier this year I lead an effort to increase conservation dollars by $3.5 billion in the 2006 House Farm Bill.“The importance of this river to the health of this nation cannot be overemphasized. I commend the National Academy of Sciences for this eye-opening report, and will continue to work to find effective and balanced solutions to foster sustainable development on the Mississippi.”For more information on the report, go to: https://www8.nationalacademies.org/onpinews/newsitem.aspx?RecordID=12051. -
10.10.2007	Area Wildlife Refuges Host Activities During Weeklong CelebrationWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), co-chair of the House National Wildlife Refuge Caucus, today encouraged western Wisconsin families to celebrate “Refuge Week” by visiting an area wildlife refuge.“Western Wisconsin boasts some of the best and most popular wildlife refuges anywhere,” Rep. Kind said. “As part of Refuge Week I want to remind families of this great opportunity right in their back yard. Teaching our children to appreciate and enjoy the outdoors is the single most important thing we can do to ensure the areas will be protected for future generations, and visiting an area refuge is a great family activity that gets kids outside and shows them the wonder of Wisconsin’s diverse wildlife.”Western Wisconsin “Refuge Week” EventsNecedah National Wildlife RefugeW7996 20th Street WestNecedah, WIThe Necedah National Wildlife Refuge will hold a free behind-the-scenes tour on Friday, October 12 and Sunday, October 14, 2007 beginning at 4:00 p.m. Interested participants should meet at the refuge office parking lot at 4:00 p.m. for a caravan-style tour of the marsh, including ducks, geese, swans, cranes and the autumn colors. Staff from the Necedah National Wildlife Refuge will lead the tour and will stop at designated areas to discuss management activities and to answer any questions. Those taking the tour should bring binoculars, cameras, and insect repellent.The tour may last for three hours. Reservations are not required. For more information about the tour or visiting the refuge call 608-565-2551.Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife & Fish Refuge51 East 4th StreetWinona, MNThe refuge will dedicate the Spring Lake Islands Habitat and Rehabilitation and Enhancement Project in Buffalo City, Wisconsin on Friday, October 12th, at 12:30 p.m. The Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish Refuge will host a Mississippi River Wild Island Girl Cruise on Sunday, October 14, from 2:00-4:00 p.m. for those interested in the Friends of the Upper Mississippi River group.The Refuge will also be open all week and weekend for possible bird viewing during fall migration. For more information about any of these events or visiting the refuge, call 608-783-8405.Trempealeau National Wildlife RefugeW28488 Refuge RoadTrempealeau, WI The Refuge will be open all week and weekend for possible bird viewing during the fall migration. For more information about visiting the refuge, call 608-539-2311.St. Croix Wetland Management District1764 95th StreetNew Richmond, WI The St. Croix Wetland Management District is working this week with local sportsmen’s clubs and volunteers to collect prairie flower seeds to re-establish local prairies. For more information about the project or visiting the refuge, call 715-246-7784.
10.10.2007	As Part of Refuge Week, Committee Passes REPAIR Act Establishing Comprehensive Approach to #1 Refuge ThreatWashington, D.C. – The House Natural Resources Committee today unanimously passed H.R. 787, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind’s Refuge Ecology Protection, Assistance, & Immediate Response (REPAIR) Act, advancing the bill that would combat the growing and costly problem of invasive species in the nation’s wildlife refuges to the House floor for a vote.“Invasive species are the number one ecological and economic threat to our refuges,” Rep. Kind said. “The backlog for basic maintenance projects at our wildlife refuges is already in the billions of dollars, and if we don’t allocate specific funds to combat this problem, the quality and longevity of our refuges will be at risk. By providing grants for both immediate response and long-term eradication of invasives, the REPAIR Act will bring a needed infusion of funding and energy to this issue, which affects all refuges, including those in our own backyard.”The backlog for specifically combating invasive species is the fastest-growing portion of the National Wildlife Refuge budget, reaching nearly $391 million. These expenses are cutting deeply into already stretched refuge operations and maintenance budgets. The REPAIR Act begins to address this crisis in the nation’s refuge system by providing voluntary REPAIR grants to states, local governments, regional agencies or individuals to fund the planning, execution, and maintenance of projects to remove harmful nonnative species.“Invasive species present a unique danger for refuges,” Rep. Kind said. “Refuges have been set apart because they are critical for the survival of treasured wildlife species, particularly threatened and endangered species. These are the animals most in danger of facing extinction, so changes to their habitat or threats from foreign organisms could be potentially devastating to them. If these places are indeed meant to be refuges for wildlife, we have a special obligation to guard against invasives.”Species that are considered invasive the Upper Mississippi River National Wildlife and Fish include the purple loosestrife, black locust and zebra mussels.
10.09.2007	House Passes Resolution Commemorating Quarterback’s Record-breaking Performance in Green BayWashington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today voted to pass House Resolution 697, commemorating Green Bay Packers’ quarterback, Brett Favre, for breaking the all-time touchdown record for a quarterback on Sunday September 30, as well as the Packers’ team efforts on and off the field. Rep. Kind is a cosponsor of the resolution introduced by U.S. Reps. Steve Kagen (WI-8), Bart Stupak (MI-1) and Gene Taylor (MS-4).“I have watched Brett Favre grow from his first season as a Packer, to a Super Bowl MVP, and to a well respected legend,” Rep. Kind said. “Throughout the sports community, Brett Favre is a symbol of stamina, leadership, toughness, and sportsmanship, and I am pleased to honor him in this way.”“I believe NFL Hall of Fame Coach Vince Lombardi captured it best when he said, ‘Individual commitment to a group effort – that is what makes a team work, a company work, a society work, a civilization work,’ and that is what Brett Favre represents,” Rep. Kind added.Not only has Brett Favre broken the NFL record for touchdown passes, he holds the records for most number of wins by a starting quarterback, most consecutive games as a starting quarterback, and the only three-time winner of the NFL’s Most Valuable Player Award. During his 16 years on the Green Bay Packers, Brett Favre has led the team to two Super Bowls and given Wisconsin a good reason to look forward to winter.Copies of the resolution will be presented to Brett Favre, the Green Bay Packers organization, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
10.09.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), co-chair of the House National Wildlife Refuge Caucus, today chaired a subcommittee hearing on the implementation of the National Wildlife Refuge Improvement Act. Kind presided over the Fisheries, Wildlife, and Oceans Subcommittee of the House Natural Resources Committee as it heard testimony from prominent current and former Administration officials, who told Congress that progress has been made, but much has yet to be accomplished.
10.04.2007	‘Equity for Our Nation’s Self-Employed Act’ Addresses Inequity in Tax CodeWashington, D.C. – Members of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Wally Herger (R-CA) today outlined new legislation they introduced that would eliminate an inequity in the tax code requiring millions of self-employed individuals to pay additional payroll taxes on the cost of their health insurance.H.R. 3660, the Equity for our Nation’s Self Employed Act, would eliminate a 15.3 percent tax on health insurance premiums for the self-employed, currently the only segment of the business population that pays this extra tax on health insurance.“Rising health care costs are pricing entrepreneurs and small business owners and family farmers out of the market,” Rep. Kind said. “When you add to that an inequity in the tax code that penalizes them further, it is no surprise that sixty percent of Americans without health insurance are from families where the head of household is self-employed or works in a small business. The ‘Equity for our Nation’s Self-Employed Act’ is a commonsense bill that would provide immediate help to 16.7 million self-employed individuals, more than 340,000 in Wisconsin alone, who have the deck stacked against them when it comes to affording quality healthcare.”Under the current tax code, corporations are able to deduct health insurance premiums as a business expense and to forego payroll taxes on these expenses. In addition, their employees are able to pay for health coverage with pre-tax dollars. However, individuals that file as sole-proprietors must use after payroll tax dollars to pay their health insurance premiums, applying a 15.3 percent payroll tax to that portion of their income. This inequity is called the “Self-Employed Tax,” and when applied to the $12,100 per year the self-employed pay on average for family coverage, this tax amounts to approximately $1,850 more to the federal government in payroll tax on these premiums every tax season. The estimated cost of the bill is $9.8 billion over five years, and Reps. Kind and Herger would work within the Ways and Means Committee to identify ways to offset the cost of this important fix to an inequity in the tax code.“Small businesses like ours have a hard enough time competing and this just makes it tougher. We could put more money back into needed business equipment,” said Kathleen Korrison, owner of Arcadia Garage Door Co. in Arcadia, Wisconsin. Her and her husband shoulder an additional $1,085.00 tax burden each year as a result of the self-employed tax."This critically important legislation would help expand health coverage to millions of currently uninsured American taxpayers, and make coverage more affordable to millions more who already have some level of insurance,” Rep. Herger added. “This bill is a truly bipartisan effort aimed at leveling the playing field for millions of self-employed small business owners (including nearly 3 million in California alone) through common sense health care tax relief. I look forward to working with Rep. Kind in building support for this important change to our tax laws."
10.03.2007	Washington, D.C. – Seldom in Congress is there a bill with such broad bipartisan support as the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) bill recently passed by both the House and Senate. SCHIP is a highly successful program that works through states to cover children from families earning too much to qualify for Medicaid, but too little to afford private insurance. In Wisconsin, SCHIP funds BadgerCare, the state’s landmark program for working families. It has saved the lives of countless kids and provided families with the security of knowing that one unforeseen illness or injury won’t send them into bankruptcy. With our kids’ health in mind, Democrats and Republicans were able to develop a compromise that works for our kids, and our budget. The SCHIP bill would increase our commitment to kids’ health care by $35 billion over five years, bringing coverage to approximately 10 million children in need – 6.6 million that currently depend on SCHIP, and 3.8 million more uninsured children from working families.While recent census data show Wisconsin is moving in the right direction – reducing the number of uninsured children by 27,000 in the last year alone – the state still has an estimated 63,000 kids who are uninsured. The SCHIP bill would cover more kids by simply providing Wisconsin with additional resources to reach children who are currently eligible but not enrolled.Having been in Washington for eleven years now, I can tell you that wide bipartisan compromises are hard to come by. In a political system that often rewards controversy over progress, the SCHIP bill was able to garner support from 265 House members, 67 Senators, and 43 Republican and Democratic governors from across the country. That’s why I was truly disappointed that President Bush vetoed this bill on the basis that it spends too much money.The irony of President Bush’s veto is that at the same time he is denying 10 million children from health coverage, he is requesting an additional $190 billion in deficit spending for the war in Iraq – a cost our children will bear. Given the President’s willingness to spend taxpayer money abroad, I have a hard time swallowing the notion that the United States cannot afford a budget-neutral bill that will provide health care coverage to some of our most vulnerable kids. With the total cost of the war projected at $1 trillion, I also have a hard time believing that investing in children’s health insurance is the problem we have with spending.Let me be clear: the price tag on this legislation is not only money well spent, it is entirely paid for through a $.61 increase in the tobacco tax. An increase to the tobacco tax is the single most important thing we can to do prevent kids from smoking. Moreover, SCHIP only spends about $3.50 a day to cover a child – less than a fancy cup of coffee at Starbucks, or a trip to a matinee. It is because of the efficiency of this program that, by increasing our commitment to SCHIP by $7 billion a year over five years, we are able to provide coverage to millions more kids.For President Bush, this is about priorities. Right now, there are children in America’s working families that can’t see a doctor when they should and can’t get the medicines they need because their parents can’t afford costly private insurance. That is unacceptable. This bill will give millions of children the chance for good health, and for their sake, I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to reject President Bush’s veto of this vital legislation.
10.01.2007	Resolution Recommits House to Assisting the Rebuilding Efforts of Flood VictimsWashington, D.C. – The House of Representatives is set to pass legislation tomorrow authored by U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-3), and Tim Walz (MN-1). House Resolution 657 expresses sympathy for victims of the August floods that ravaged the Midwest and expresses gratitude for the emergency personnel, local officials, business owners, nonprofit organizations, and citizens who contributed their time and resources to the flood recovery efforts. The resolution will be taken up under a “suspension of the rules,” a legislative method used to pass legislation that expects unanimous consent.“The damage sustained by the Midwest flood was nothing short of devastating,” said Rep. Kind, who represents a large portion of southwest Wisconsin hard hit by the floods. “But as we have seen before, out of great tragedy comes great triumph, and I am pleased that this resolution will recognize the effective, coordinated response by everyone from government agencies and local officials, to the friends and neighbors of flood victims. This resolution is an appropriate testament to their service, and illustrates the continued commitment of the U.S. Congress to help them rebuild their communities and their lives.”During August 2007, flooding resulting from as much as 18 inches of rain in Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa and Illinois took the lives of 14 people. Parts of Minnesota, Wisconsin and Ohio have been declared Major Disasters by President Bush as a result of the storms. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has had a presence in the affected communities since August and is currently working with victims of the flood, providing financial assistance to help rebuild infrastructure, homes, and businesses. According to FEMA, in Wisconsin alone, 4,300 homeowners and renters have applied for federal disaster grants in 14 southern counties, and nearly $9 million in grants and loans have already been handed out.“The August floods brought out the best in our communities and it is an honor to serve the people who’ve given so selflessly of their time and resources,” said Congressman Walz, who represents all seven Minnesota counties classified as federal disaster areas due to the flooding. “I’ve witnessed countless acts of kindness over the course of the last several weeks and it is important that we recognize and remember the courage and relentless commitment of those affected to rebuild the communities of Southeastern Minnesota. This resolution reaffirms that the Members of the House of Representatives will stand with the citizens of Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Ohio and Illinois as they rebuild.”Text of the resolution is available at: https://www.house.gov/kind/pdf/flood.pdf
09.26.2007	During First Ever ‘Congressional Sportsmen’s Week,’ New Report ShowsHunters and Anglers Spend $76 Billion Annually Washington, D.C. – As part of the first-ever Congressional Sportsmen’s Week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today highlighted a new report from the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation demonstrating the tremendous economic impact of America’s 34 million hunters and anglers. Spending more than $76 billion a year on hunting and fishing activities, America’s sportsmen and women spend more than the revenues of high-tech giants Microsoft, Google, eBay and Yahoo – combined.“This report clearly demonstrates the tremendous impact that sportsmen and women have on their communities, the economy, the environment, and even on politics,” said U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, avid sportsman and co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus. “Their presence is too great to be ignored by policymakers in Washington, DC, and I urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to look at this report and make sportsmen’s issues a priority.”The report, Hunting and Fishing: Bright Stars of the American Economy ~ A Force as Big as All Outdoors, uses the results from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s 2006 National Survey of Fishing, Hunting and Wildlife-Associated Recreation and compares hunters’ and anglers’ impact on the economy with other industries and constituencies.The latest figures demonstrate that season after season hunters and anglers are an economic powerhouse, driving the economy from big businesses to rural towns, through booms and recessions. They directly support 1.6 million jobs, which is twice as many jobs as the combined civilian payrolls of the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine Corps.“While hunting and fishing are generally thought of as just outdoor traditions, they actually comprise an outdoor nation - both in terms of economic impact, and in turning out the vote on Election Day,” stated Jeff Crane, President of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation. “If the $76 billion sportsmen spend on hunting and fishing was the Gross Domestic Product of a country, sportsmen as a nation would rank 57th out of 181 countries.”Broken down to a daily spending figure, the economic stimulus of hunting and fishing comes out to an astounding $208 million a day. This spending keeps people working: not just in typical hunting and fishing jobs, but also in gas stations, retail, restaurants and hotels throughout every state and congressional district of the USA. Of course, government coffers also benefit -- spending by sportsmen generates $25 billion in federal, state and local taxes.While recent media attention has focused on the small decreases in licensed sportsmen, the CSF report focuses on the economic powerhouse of hunters and anglers and how they compare to other sectors of the economy. The report also discusses the “undocumented sportsmen” – hunters and anglers whose numbers cannot be derived from this data.“It is a fairly simple equation - hunters and anglers mean jobs and tax revenue in every state and congressional district of the country,” stated Crane. “The economic impact and shear size of sportsmen as a constituency are facts that every lawmaker should pay attention too.”The full report: Hunting and Fishing: Bright Stars of the American Economy ~ A Force as Big as All Outdoors, along with FAST FACTS are available on the web at www.sportsmenslink.org and www.nssf.org.
09.25.2007	Washington, D.C. – As part of the first-ever Congressional Sportsmen’s Week, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind today encouraged citizens in Wisconsin to take part in the annual celebration of National Public Lands Day on September 29, 2007. “People in Wisconsin understand the importance of preserving for future generations the natural areas that contribute to our national heritage and way of life,” Rep. Kind said, Co-Chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus and member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “I enjoy nothing more than taking in the great outdoors with my wife and two young boys, be it during our yearly trips out to some of the most spectacular national parks in the world, or hiking up our own natural treasures in western Wisconsin. National Public Lands Day allows families in Wisconsin and across the nation enjoy this same experience, and I encourage everyone to participate.”First celebrated in 1994, National Public Lands Day provides an opportunity for Americans to enjoy and help preserve our nation’s natural wonders, owned by all Americans, through local volunteerism and public education projects, as well as free access to National Parks and historic sites across the country.In celebration of National Public Lands Day, the National Park Service will waive all entrance fees for the day, including vehicle and commercial tour fees, to National Parks across the country. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and U.S. Forest Service will also waive admittance fees for the day.For a list of local National Parks and historic sites, visit www.nps.gov, or to access other Interior Department Web sites, visit www.interior.gov. The National Public Lands Day official Web site can be accessed at www.publiclandsday.org.
09.20.2007	First Ever ‘Congressional Sportsmen’s Week’ to Highlight Importance of Hunting, Fishing, and Outdoor Recreation in Wisconsin and Across America Washington, D.C. – Following National Hunting and Fishing Day this Saturday, September 22, 2007, next week U.S. Rep. Ron Kind, co-chair of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, will take the lead on the first-ever “Congressional Sportsmen’s Week” on Capitol Hill. During the week the House will act on several measures promoting hunting, fishing, boating, and outdoor recreation in Wisconsin and across the country.“Next week, the House will for the first time dedicate a week to recognizing the important contributions made by millions of sportsmen and women across America,” Rep. Kind said. “These men and women represent not only an important part of our economy, but our heritage as well. They are also a driving force in many conservation efforts – from protecting our remaining open spaces for all to enjoy, to combating global warming, and keeping our rivers and lakes clean.”Previous studies have estimated that every year, nearly 38 million sportsmen and women in America contribute $250 billion directly and indirectly to the national economy through hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation activities. These activities also employ more than 1.6 million people a year. More recent data will be released next week.During the week of September 24-28, the House will commence “Congressional Sportsmen’s Week” in an effort to highlight the vital importance of hunting, fishing, and outdoor recreation to America’s economy, environment, health, and way of life. Legislative activity will include passing resolutions recognizing the important contributions of sportsmen and women, and committee consideration of important conservation initiatives. Additionally, the Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation will announce the release of a report detailing new data on the tremendous economic impact of the sportsmen’s community.“While Washington politics often seem far removed from our favorite duck blind or deer stand, elected officials can have a direct impact on the ability of sportsmen and women to enjoy the great outdoors,” Rep. Kind continued. “Congressional Sportsmen’s week will show that the new Democratic Congress has made the interests of outdoor enthusiasts a priority.”The Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus is the largest bipartisan Congressional caucus with nearly 300 members in the U.S. House of Representatives and 50 in the U.S. Senate. The active leadership of the CSC includes a Democrat and Republican chair and vice chair in the House and the Senate.
09.20.2007	Physical Education Must be Made a Priority in No Child Left BehindBy: U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and U.S. Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN)It was Thomas Jefferson who said, “A child who is not physically well cannot learn.” His words could not be more true today, as childhood obesity in the United States reaches epidemic proportions, jeopardizing not only the health of our kids, but also their academic development.What exactly does “epidemic proportions” mean? It means 25 million obese children in the United States. It means a childhood obesity rate that has tripled since 1980 and continues to grow. It means that health-threatening high blood pressure among youth is on the rise, and cases of juvenile diabetes are skyrocketing. And it means that diseases once thought limited to aging Americans are creeping their way into the lives of children and adolescents.Something has got to change. Not only is the health of our children at risk, this nation is already spending $117 billion a year on obesity related healthcare costs – 83 cents of every healthcare dollar.Increasing physical activity is the most important component of any initiative to combat childhood obesity, but the need for physical education in our schools is often overshadowed by the need to raise test scores to meet federally mandated academic standards. Add that to a lack of resources, and many schools are being forced to cut back on PE programs. Between 1991 and 2003, enrollment of high school students in daily PE classes fell to just 28 percent.The irony is that increased physical education is often exactly what schools need to achieve the necessary academic progress. Research shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers. In short, in order to develop healthy minds, you need healthy bodies.Physical education must be made a priority in public schools, and No Child Left Behind (NCLB) reauthorization offers a great opportunity to do that. That’s why together with Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA), we recently introduced the “Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids (FIT Kids) Act,” (H.R. 3257).The bill would add physical education to the multiple measures for determining accountability under NCLB, offering schools another way to meet their adequate yearly progress while promoting physical activity and nutritional education for students. States would be measured on their progress toward meeting a national goal for required physical education recommended by the Centers for Disease Control of 150 minutes per week in elementary schools and 225 minutes per week for students in middle and high schools.The bill would also engage parents and the public by asking all schools, districts, and states to report on students’ physical activity, and would help faculty and staff learn new ways to promote kids’ healthy lifestyles through professional development opportunities. Finally, it will authorize a study and pilot program to support effective ways to combat childhood obesity and improve healthy living and physical activity for all children.By ensuring that our schools are providing comprehensive physical education, we can give every child – regardless of their background – an opportunity to learn healthy habits and get moving. Exercise can act as an effective anti-depressant, especially for children. The more people we can encourage to be physically active in their lives and take better care of themselves, the better off we will be as a society. By the fourth grade, every child should know there are adverse consequences to a sedentary lifestyle. In doing so, we will also see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life.If we are going to get serious about combating childhood obesity, we must enlist everyone in the effort – especially our schools. We simply cannot afford the economic and societal costs of childhood obesity, and strengthening physical education in schools could be a big step in reversing the trend lines, and saving lives.
09.18.2007	In the Face of a Childhood Obesity Epidemic, Physical Education Must be Made a PriorityWASHINGTON, DC – As committee work on No Child Left Behind reauthorization approaches, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Zach Wamp (R-TN), and Jay Inslee (D-WA) today joined the American Heart Association, educators, and kids to urge the Education and Labor Committee to make physical education a priority in the bill by holding schools accountable for moving toward a national goal for physical education.Reps. Kind, Wamp, and Inslee recently introduced the “Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids (FIT Kids) Act” (H.R. 3257) that would combat childhood obesity by modifying No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) to strengthen physical education programs throughout the country.“This bill gets to the simple truth: in order to develop healthy minds, you need healthy bodies,” said U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) who is a member of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Providing increased physical education in public schools will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life. I urge the Education and Labor Committee to make this a priority and integrate the ‘FIT Kids Act’ into No Child Left Behind.”The FIT Kids act would measure schools on their progress toward meeting a national goal for required physical education recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control of 150 minutes/week in elementary schools and 225 minutes/week in middle and high schools. The bill would also engage parents and the public by requiring all schools, districts and states to report on students’ physical activity, including the amount of time spent in required physical education in relation to the recommended national standard.In addition, the FIT Kids Act would support professional development for faculty and staff to integrate physical education into everyday academic curriculum, and authorizes a study and pilot program to support effective ways to combat childhood obesity.“The statistics on childhood obesity are staggering, and we need to get them going in the other direction,” said U.S. Rep. Zach Wamp (R-TN), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Fitness Caucus. “Research shows that healthy children learn more effectively and achieve more academically. The FIT Kids Act would ensure a strong emphasis on physical education to help bolster academic performance and provide students with the physical activity and education to lead healthy lifestyles.”“A recent University of Washington study showed that nearly a quarter of the Evergreen State's eighth-, 10th- and 12th-graders are overweight or obese,” said U.S. Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA). Even more shocking is that Washington state has been ranked as having one of the lowest youth obesity rates nationwide. We can and must do better for our kids. As Congress works to reauthorize No Child Left Behind, we need to include provisions to ensure every child has a fair chance at health, just like the law now aims to give all children a fair chance at learning.”The concern over lack of physical activity is widespread. The American Heart Association recently collected more than 18,000 signed postcards from advocates across the country urging Congress to integrate physical education into No Child Left Behind. The postcards were presented to the bill’s co-sponsors at the event.“We should be alarmed that our children are developing diseases that traditionally have been associated with adults,” said John Ring, M.D., American Heart Association Director of Policy. “If we don’t provide quality physical education in schools, children won’t learn an important part of what they need to know to reduce their risk for heart disease and stroke. The FIT Kids Act addresses the childhood obesity epidemic with sensible solutions that should be integrated into No Child Left Behind.”“Physical education teachers have witnessed a growing problem within our profession that has reached epidemic proportions,” said Cindy Hess, physical education teacher at Highland Elementary School in Ephrata, Pennsylvania. “Many of our students are overweight or obese and it’s frightening. The ‘FIT Kids Act’ could reverse this trend by ensuring that schools provide quality physical education to help children develop the skills and confidence they need to be active for life.”“Schools face significant barriers to improving access to physical education, health education, and healthy foods,” said Jill Carter, Wellness Coordinator for the Boston Public Schools and a co-author of Planet Health, an interdisciplinary curriculum for teaching middle school nutrition and physical activity that was developed by the Harvard School of Public Health. “While academic and wellness priorities should not compete for resources and time, they often do. We know that school-based programs like Planet Health can work within academic frameworks and prevent obesity. And now we need the federal legislation and funding outlined in The Fit Kids Act to establish quality physical education and health education as priorities for schools.”Planet Health is a nine-year-old, evidence-based health and nutrition curriculum that is designed to fit easily into existing math, science, social studies, language arts and physical education curricula. The curriculum was recently featured in the cover story of US News and World Report because studies have demonstrated that Planet Health (PH) is effective at preventing childhood obesity and disordered eating, while also enjoying the enthusiastic support of teachers, administrators and students. Nearly all teachers reported that PH was a positive addition to their curriculum and was effective in teaching academic as well as health specific material.Finally, the High Flyers, a group of students from Holy Trinity School in Ligonier, Pennsylvania, performed a jump-rope demo to highlight the benefits of increased physical activity in schools. Since the team began, the High Flyers have demonstrated before thousands of students, teaching the importance of good nutrition, physical activity and staying tobacco-free.The FIT Kids Act has been endorsed by the following organizations: The American Heart Association, American Stroke Association, National Association for Sport and Physical Education, Afterschool Alliance, American Association for Physical Activity and Recreation, American School Health Association, Healthy Schools Campaign, National Association of Health Education Centers, National Association for County and City Health Officials, National Recreation and Park Association, Obesity Action Coalition, Researchers Against Inactivity-related Disorders, SPARK, Shaping America’s Health, Trust for America’s Health, American College of Sports Medicine, and the YMCA.Childhood Obesity in AmericaChildhood obesity in the United States has reached epidemic proportions. Currently 25 million children in America are obese. The childhood obesity rate has tripled since 1980, and continues to rise. It is estimated that by 2010, twenty percent of children in the U.S. will be obese.Researchers suggest that the childhood obesity epidemic is largely due to a decline in regular physical activity and a diet high in empty and fat-laden calories. A lack of regular physical activity not only hurts a child’s health, it can also affect his/her academic development, as research also shows that healthy children learn more effectively and are higher academic achievers.Increasing physical activity is the most important component of any initiative to combat childhood obesity and promote the health of students. Unfortunately, many schools are being forced to cut back on PE programs because of lack of resources and competing academic demands and testing. Between 1991 and 2003, enrollment of high school students in daily PE classes fell from 41.6% to 28.4%.For more information, see the recent Trust for America’s Health Report, “F is for Fat.” The report is available at: https://healthyamericans.org/reports/obesity2007/
09.11.2007	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) announced that individuals interested in attending one of the nation’s service academies must submit their applications by Friday, October 19, 2007.“I am always impressed by the highly motivated and disciplined young men and women that seek to attend our nation’s military academies,” Rep. Kind said. “Each year I am able to nominate some of western Wisconsin’s best and brightest students to become the military leaders of the future, and I again look forward to meeting this year’s applicants.”A congressional nomination is required for students wishing to enter the:U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New YorkU.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, MarylandU.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; andMerchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York.The application process is open to any United States citizen who will be a high school graduate and between the ages of 17 and 22 by July 1, 2008, and is unmarried with no dependents. Generally, high school students entering their senior year apply for admittance the following year. Interested applicants can obtain the necessary forms and information by contacting Mark Aumann in Rep. Ron Kind’s Eau Claire office at (715) 831-9214. For more information on the nomination process please visit Rep. Kind’s official Web site: www.house.gov/kind.
09.07.2007	Bill is Single Largest Investment in Federal Assistance for College Since GI BillWASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today joined a bipartisan majority in the House in passing the College Cost Reduction and Access Act. The bill provides the single largest investment in higher education since the 1944 GI bill, helping millions of students and families pay for college, at no new cost to taxpayers. The Senate also approved the bill today, and it now goes to President Bush, who is expected to sign it into law.“It is high time that this investment was made, and I am pleased it will soon be signed into law,” Rep. Kind said. “College costs have grown nearly 40 percent in the last five years while federal support for college has stagnated. Students are graduating from college with more debt than ever before, and many are delaying higher education, or skipping it altogether, because they don’t believe they can afford it.”The College Cost Reduction and Access Act will boost college financial aid by more than $20 billion over the next five years, and cuts interest rates on subsidized student loans in half over the next four years. This will include more than $210 million in additional funding to Wisconsin students and families. The bill pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies paid to lenders in the college loan industry by $20.9 billion.Under the legislation, the maximum value of the Pell Grant scholarship will increase by $1,090 over the next five years, reaching $5,400 by 2012. Close to 6 million low- and moderate-income students across the country will benefit from this increase, including nearly 68,000 in Wisconsin.To reduce the cost of loans for millions of student borrowers, the legislation cuts interest rates in half on need-based student loans, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over the next four years. The rate cut will save the typical student borrower a total of $4,400. About 76,000 students take out need-based loans each year in Wisconsin.“This bill shows that we can be responsive to the concerns of families in western Wisconsin, while maintaining fiscal responsibility,” Rep. Kind said. “By boosting scholarships and reducing loan and tuition costs, this bill is making an historic investment in America’s college students, its economic competitiveness, and its future.”The College Cost Reduction and Access Act also includes a number of other provisions:Tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in public schools; Loan forgiveness for college graduates that go into public service professions; Increased federal loan limits so students won’t have to rely as heavily on costlier private loans; andStrategies to contain the increasing cost of tuition.
08.30.2007	Law Should Emphasize Individual Growth Models, Physical EducationEAU CLAIRE – Following a meeting with area educators and the National Education Association President Reg Weaver, U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today called for meaningful reform of No Child Left Behind, which is up for reauthorization in Congress this fall.“While it is important to hold our schools accountable for progress, No Child Left Behind has created an education system that is too focused on standardized tests, and not the students themselves,” Rep. Kind said. “It is my hope that through the reauthorization process, we can reform No Child Left Behind to work better for America’s schools, its teachers, and most importantly, its kids.”Rep. Kind, a former member of the Education and Labor Committee, called for commonsense reforms such as allowing schools to measure student achievement through individual growth models, rather than standardized tests. Currently students are assessed by grade level, and individual students’ progress is not tracked. A growth model system would track the same group of students over time.Rep. Kind also favors allowing states to use multiple indicators to calculate “Adequate Yearly Progress” (AYP), a measure that is required for federal funding. For instance, to calculate AYP, a state could use such indicators as graduation, dropout, and college enrollment rates, or assessments in science, government, and writing, in addition to the already required reading and math assessments.“Success isn’t measured by reading and math scores alone,” Rep. Kind said. “We need to give our teachers flexibility to cater to each student’s needs, rather than tying their hands with a one-size-fits-all approach. It is more important than ever that we ensure each student has the education and skills they need to compete in an increasingly global, 21st century economy; and these commonsense reforms would be a great step toward achieving that.”Rep. Kind is also leading an effort in the House to make physical education a priority in No Child Left Behind. He recently introduced the “Fit Kids Act,” (H.R. 3297) which would require states to be measured on their progress toward meeting a national goal for required physical education of 150 minutes/week in elementary schools and 225 minutes/week in middle and high schools.“As the incidence of obesity, juvenile diabetes, and other chronic illnesses grows in Wisconsin and across the nation, the time is now to make physical activity a priority in our schools,” Rep. Kind said. “Ensuring that our schools are providing comprehensive physical education will give every child an opportunity – regardless of their background – to learn healthy habits and get moving. We will see the benefits in their math and reading test scores, get to the root of the obesity epidemic, and get kids on a healthy path early in life.”The “Fit Kids Act” is supported by the American Heart Association, the National Association for Sport and Physical Education, and the Healthy Schools Campaign.
08.29.2007	‘Bill invests in the next generation, greatest generation,’ Kind saysLA CROSSE – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), today joined health care advocates, physicians, and seniors at a news conference at Franciscan Skemp Healthcare in La Crosse to hail the Children’s Health & Medicare Protection Act of 2007 (CHAMP Act) as a landmark commitment to children’s health and Medicare beneficiaries. The CHAMP Act, recently passed by the House of Representatives, will expand health care coverage to millions of kids while also expanding and protecting Medicare coverage for the millions of seniors who depend on it.“This bill invests in the next generation, and our greatest generation,” Rep. Kind said. “The CHAMP Act will allow Wisconsin to do so much more for our kids and our seniors, while being fiscally responsible and actually strengthening these programs for the future.”The CHAMP Act benefits Wisconsin in a number of ways, including increasing by $29.7 million Wisconsin’s share of the State Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which funds BadgerCare and covers nearly 56,000 of Wisconsin’s kids. The increase gives the state the opportunity to cover additional kids who qualify but are currently uninsured.“As a nurse I see the effects of our health care crisis everyday,” said Dian Palmer, State Council President of SEIU. “We absolutely must ensure that people get the affordable quality care they deserve, beginning with our children. SEIU thanks Congressman Kind for voting for passage of the CHAMP Act because healthier families and a healthy next generation is a smart investment in Wisconsin’s future.”The total investment in SCHIP is $50 billion, which will extend healthcare coverage to an additional 12 million kids nationally. In addition to increased coverage, the CHAMP Act also provides more and better dental care for kids by adding a guaranteed dental benefit to SCHIP for the first time. Under current law, states can choose whether or not children receive these important services.“Increasing access to dental care for all Wisconsin residents needs to be a priority at both the federal and state levels,” Rep. Jennifer Shilling said. “I applaud Congressman Kind's efforts to guarantee that all children are able to receive quality dental care.”Under CHAMP, seniors and people with disabilities will also benefit, by guaranteeing that they will be able to continue to see their doctors. The CHAMP Act prevents a scheduled 10 percent cut to physician payments, which would have placed Medicare beneficiaries’ access to doctors at risk.Beyond access to doctors, CHAMP also expands preventive care for seniors by eliminating all copayments for preventive services such as: initial physical exams; cancer screenings; screenings for cardiovascular disease and diabetes; immunizations; Glaucoma screenings; and bone mass measurement for osteoporosis.“AARP Wisconsin applauds Congressman Kind for improving access to healthcare for thousands of older Americans and children across the state,” said Rollie Solberg, AARP volunteer leader from La Crosse. “The Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act makes long overdue improvements in Medicare – ensuring that people in Medicare will continue to have access to their doctors; promoting cost-effective preventive health care; and increasing low-income assistance to help those who need it the most.”Rural healthcare is also protected under the bill. It includes a $3 billion rural package that ensures rural doctors are paid the same rate for their work as their urban counterparts, provides incentives to doctors practicing in areas where there is a shortage, helps rural hospitals cover lab costs, and protects rural home health with additional reimbursement to cover greater transportation costs.Finally, CHAMP makes a commitment to fiscal responsibility by rewarding efficiency in Medicare. The bill establishes a new bonus payment for efficient physicians, including Wisconsin doctors practicing in 27 counties across the state. In western Wisconsin, efficiency payments will go to doctors in Buffalo, Crawford, Dunn, Iowa, Jackson, La Crosse, Monroe, Pierce, Richland, Trempealeau, and Vernon counties.“The CHAMP Act is a tremendous step in the right direction for delivering quality healthcare to key populations in Western Wisconsin – children, seniors and those in rural areas,” said Robert Nesse, MD, President & CEO of Franciscan Skemp. “With the emphasis on preventive care this legislation will helps have more positive outcomes and make our operations more efficient and effective.”The CHAMP Act is supported by the American Association of Retired Persons (AARP), the American Medical Association (AMA), and the American Hospital Association (AHA), among others.
08.26.2007	Commends FEMA, Governor Doyle for Quick ResponseTown of Shelby, Wis. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) today expressed thanks to President Bush, Administrator R. David Paulison, Governor Doyle, and others as the President officially made a major disaster declaration for the State of Wisconsin, making Federal aid available to affected individuals in Crawford, La Crosse, Richland, Sauk, and Vernon counties.“I am extremely pleased that FEMA has turned this disaster declaration around so quickly for these five counties, who have been dealing with relentless rain and flooding for a week,” Rep. Kind said. “I want to thank President Bush, FEMA Administrator Paulison, and Governor Doyle for making this such a high priority. I believe this kind of turnaround is a testament to the work of local officials, Wisconsin Emergency Management, and the non-governmental organizations, who were able to quickly and efficiently identify where damages were sustained, and direct the FEMA teams accordingly.“This declaration will free up much needed resources for the victims of this flood, and ensure that individuals will be able to return to their homes and businesses as quickly as possible,” Rep. Kind continued. “We will continue to work together on all levels of government to help those affected rebuild their lives.”Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.Those who sustained losses in Crawford, La Crosse, Richland, Sauk, and Vernon counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by registering online at https://www.fema.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (local time) Monday thru Sunday.
08.20.2007	La Crescent, Minn. – U.S. Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) made the following statement after touring the flood damage in Vernon and Crawford Counties today: “The damage sustained in southwest Wisconsin is nothing short of devastating. While I was pleased to see an effective and coordinated response by emergency workers across agencies and local governments, there are still many in need of assistance, and the true extent of the damage remains unknown.“When the rain stops and the flood waters recede, the cleanup process will be extensive – and expensive – with tens of millions of dollars in damages already reported. I will do everything I can to ensure that federal disaster aid is made available to those counties hit hardest by the floods, working with Governor Doyle and the Federal Emergency Management Agency to secure this essential assistance and help the residents and business owners of southwest Wisconsin rebuild their lives.”
